Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H4123
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019 No. 87
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mrs. LURIA).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
May 23, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable ELAINE G.
LURIA to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
Chaplain Major Thomas E. Fussell,
U.S. Air Force, Cape Canaveral, Flor-
ida, offered the following prayer:
Good morning, Lord.
In a few days, our hearts will turn to-
ward our Armed Forces as we observe
Memorial Day. Many of America’s sons
and daughters have fought and died
valiantly for the freedoms we now
enjoy. We are grateful for the ultimate
sacrifice they have made for us. May
Your peace rest on their loved ones
who continue to grieve.
Lord, as the many debates of great
importance echo through this historic
Chamber, I pray that You would give
to these leaders a softness of heart and
speech, that they may work to solve
the problems at hand, together. Grant
our congressional leaders wisdom and
new ideas to solve the complex prob-
lems before them.
Bless the House of Representatives, O
Lord. Imbue its leaders with Your
righteousness. Remind them that to
whom much is given, much is required.
Lord our creator, lover of our souls,
hear my prayer.
Amen.
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker,
pursuant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a
vote on agreeing to the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker,
on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentlewoman from Georgia (Mrs.
MCBATH) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mrs. MCBATH led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to five requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
ACTION ON HEALTHCARE
(Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker,
the American people sent a clear mes-
sage that they want action to lower the
cost and improve the quality of
healthcare. I am pleased that, over the
past month, this House has done ex-
actly that.
It is a stark contrast to the 8 years
under the previous majority with one
attempt after another to repeal the Af-
fordable Care Act and deny coverage to
Americans with preexisting conditions.
Last week, we passed legislation to
help address the rising cost of prescrip-
tion drugs by increasing the avail-
ability of generic drugs.
This bill also curbs the Trump ad-
ministration’s expansion of junk insur-
ance plans and funds programs to help
more Americans enroll in coverage.
Earlier, we voted to reverse the
Trump administration’s dangerous ef-
fort to allow States to waive lifesaving
protections for people with preexisting
conditions.
I urge the Senate to take up these
bills that will have immediate, positive
effects on our Nation’s healthcare, and
I look forward to working with my col-
leagues to make even more, further
progress.
f
HONORING EMERGENCY MEDICAL
SERVICE PERSONNEL
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor
of the 45th annual National EMS Week.
During this week, we celebrate emer-
gency medical services personnel and
the important work that they do in our
Nation’s communities.
The EMS professionals provide con-
stant services to people in need. From
illness to injury, whenever the world
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.000 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4124 May 23, 2019
seems to be ending, society counts on
EMS personnel to be there. They are
expected to work hard and be strong,
especially in times of trouble.
Madam Speaker, as a former EMT
rescue technician and firefighter with
more than three decades of experience
being on the front lines with my fellow
EMS professionals, I can personally at-
test to their dedication to saving lives.
The job of an EMS professional is not
easy. It requires just as much compas-
sion as it does courage. These men and
women are committed to making the
world better.
EMS Week brings together local
communities and medical personnel to
honor the dedication of those who are
on the front line providing day-to-day
lifesaving services.
A thank-you to the EMTs, para-
medics, dispatchers, and supervisors
across the country. Every American is
grateful for their service.
f
SUPPORTING OUR NATION’S
VETERANS
(Mrs. MCBATH asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. MCBATH. Madam Speaker,
today I am introducing the Honoring
American Veterans in Extreme Need,
or HAVEN, Act, with my colleague
GREG STEUBE of Florida.
Under current law, when a veteran
files for bankruptcy, his or her dis-
ability benefits from the VA or DOD
count as income that is subject to the
reach of creditors; however, Social Se-
curity disability benefits are exempt.
The HAVEN Act would amend bank-
ruptcy law to exclude disability benefit
payments paid from the VA or DOD
from that monthly income calculation,
treating it the same as Social Security
disability.
Our disabled veterans earned their
benefits by serving our great Nation,
and we must protect them and their
families, especially during financial
hardship.
I encourage my colleagues to support
our Nation’s veterans and cosponsor
this bipartisan legislation.
f
HONORING LEE JERNIGAN
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the life and
honor the passage of one of my great
constituents, Lee Jernigan of Oroville,
California.
During Lee’s lifetime, he had joined
the U.S. Army Air Corps in 1943 and
served as an aerial gunner and airplane
mechanic on a B–17 during World War
II, where he flew 23 missions in the
Asian Pacific.
Lee graduated from Chico State in
1950 and received his master’s degree in
1959 in education. Lee was known spe-
cifically for his passion and commit-
ment to God, his family, and for edu-
cating the young people of our commu-
nity.
It should come as no surprise that
Lee was a beloved elementary and mid-
dle school teacher and then went on to
be my principal at Central Middle
School in Oroville, California, for 54
years of career. Lee was known to be
kind, with a sense of humor, and this
was one principal I was never really in
trouble with.
Lee was devoted to teaching, but also
devoted to his loving wife, Hazel, whom
he married in 1948 and remained with
for 72 years until his passing.
Lee was a man of extreme dedication
and commitment to his wife, to his
country, and to learning for the chil-
dren of his community. Of course, we
can all learn from that, as well.
Madam Speaker, God bless Lee
Jernigan and his family.
f
HELPING FAMILIES ACHIEVE
LIFETIME FINANCIAL SECURITY
(Mr. HORSFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to join my colleagues in sup-
port of the SECURE Act, a bill that
gets to the heart of our retirement in-
come crisis.
Unfortunately, too many of my con-
stituents are in danger of not having
enough money to put away for retire-
ment. In fact, 86 percent of Nevadans
do not feel financially prepared for re-
tirement, and most older Nevadans
wished they had saved more money.
Fortunately, the SECURE Act will
make it easier for Nevadans to save for
their retirement. It makes it easier for
small businesses to offer retirement
plans to their employees, allows part-
time workers to participate in 401(k)
plans, and provides relief to pension
plans, ranging from rural co-ops to or-
ganizations like the Jewish Federation
of America.
I am also proud to share that this
legislation includes my bill, H.R. 2806,
which fixes a provision in the flawed
Republican tax plan that raised the tax
rate for scholarship and fellowship stu-
dents up to 37 percent.
As a member of the Ways and Means
Committee, I would like to thank
Chairman NEAL for his leadership in
getting this bipartisan bill passed
unanimously through our committee.
The SECURE Act will help families
achieve lifetime financial security, a
core of the American Dream. I urge
every Member of this body to support
its passage.
f
CONGRATULATING HAVERFORD
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
(Ms. SCANLON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, we
all know that elections matter, so I
would like to congratulate the stu-
dents of Haverford High School for re-
ceiving the Governor’s Civic Engage-
ment Award. This award is given to
Pennsylvania high schools that reg-
ister over 85 percent of their eligible
students to vote. Haverford High was 1
of 4 Philadelphia area schools and 1 of
23 schools in our Commonwealth to re-
ceive this noteworthy award.
At a time when some States are im-
posing restrictions on voting, we
should all follow the lead set by the
students at Haverford High. They
worked to educate their peers and
bring them into the electoral process.
This Congress should do the same.
We need to ensure that our schools
give students a thorough civics edu-
cation so that they have the knowledge
and tools necessary to fully participate
in our democracy. We need to expand
voting rights and access to the ballot,
as we are doing with passage of bills
like H.R. 1 and H.R. 4.
Again, Madam Speaker, I want to
congratulate the students of Haverford
High School for their outstanding
achievement and for being an example
for all of us to follow.
f
SETTING EVERY COMMUNITY UP
FOR RETIREMENT ENHANCE-
MENT ACT OF 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, pursuant
to House Resolution 389, I call up the
bill (H.R. 1994) to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to encourage re-
tirement savings, and for other pur-
poses, and ask for its immediate con-
sideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 389, the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, modified
by the amendment printed in part B of
House Report 116–79, is adopted, and
the bill, as amended, is considered
read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 1994
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE, ETC.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Setting Every Community Up for Retire-
ment Enhancement Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title, etc.
TITLE I—EXPANDING AND PRESERVING
RETIREMENT SAVINGS
Sec. 101. Multiple employer plans; pooled em-
ployer plans.
Sec. 102. Increase in 10 percent cap for auto-
matic enrollment safe harbor after
1st plan year.
Sec. 103. Rules relating to election of safe har-
bor 401(k) status.
Sec. 104. Increase in credit limitation for small
employer pension plan startup
costs.
Sec. 105. Small employer automatic enrollment
credit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6343 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.003 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4125
May 23, 2019
Sec. 106. Certain taxable non-tuition fellowship
and stipend payments treated as
compensation for IRA purposes.
Sec. 107. Repeal of maximum age for traditional
IRA contributions.
Sec. 108. Qualified employer plans prohibited
from making loans through credit
cards and other similar arrange-
ments.
Sec. 109. Portability of lifetime income options.
Sec. 110. Treatment of custodial accounts on
termination of section 403(b)
plans.
Sec. 111. Clarification of retirement income ac-
count rules relating to church-
controlled organizations.
Sec. 112. Qualified cash or deferred arrange-
ments must allow long-term em-
ployees working more than 500
but less than 1,000 hours per year
to participate.
Sec. 113. Penalty-free withdrawals from retire-
ment plans for individuals in case
of birth of child or adoption.
Sec. 114. Increase in age for required beginning
date for mandatory distributions.
Sec. 115. Special rules for minimum funding
standards for community news-
paper plans.
Sec. 116. Treating excluded difficulty of care
payments as compensation for de-
termining retirement contribution
limitations.
TITLE II—ADMINISTRATIVE
IMPROVEMENTS
Sec. 201. Plan adopted by filing due date for
year may be treated as in effect as
of close of year.
Sec. 202. Combined annual report for group of
plans.
Sec. 203. Disclosure regarding lifetime income.
Sec. 204. Fiduciary safe harbor for selection of
lifetime income provider.
Sec. 205. Modification of nondiscrimination
rules to protect older, longer serv-
ice participants.
Sec. 206. Modification of PBGC premiums for
CSEC plans.
TITLE III—OTHER BENEFITS
Sec. 301. Benefits provided to volunteer fire-
fighters and emergency medical
responders.
Sec. 302. Expansion of section 529 plans.
TITLE IV—REVENUE PROVISIONS
Sec. 401. Modification of required distribution
rules for designated beneficiaries.
Sec. 402. Increase in penalty for failure to file.
Sec. 403. Increased penalties for failure to file
retirement plan returns.
Sec. 404. Increase information sharing to ad-
minister excise taxes.
TITLE I—EXPANDING AND PRESERVING
RETIREMENT SAVINGS
SEC. 101. MULTIPLE EMPLOYER PLANS; POOLED
EMPLOYER PLANS.
(a) QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 413 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(e) APPLICATION OF QUALIFICATION REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR CERTAIN MULTIPLE EMPLOYER PLANS
WITH POOLED PLAN PROVIDERS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in para-
graph (2), if a defined contribution plan to
which subsection (c) applies—
‘‘(A) is maintained by employers which have a
common interest other than having adopted the
plan, or
‘‘(B) in the case of a plan not described in
subparagraph (A), has a pooled plan provider,
then the plan shall not be treated as failing to
meet the requirements under this title applicable
to a plan described in section 401(a) or to a plan
that consists of individual retirement accounts
described in section 408 (including by reason of
subsection (c) thereof), whichever is applicable,
merely because one or more employers of em-
ployees covered by the plan fail to take such ac-
tions as are required of such employers for the
plan to meet such requirements.
‘‘(2) LIMITATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) shall not
apply to any plan unless the terms of the plan
provide that in the case of any employer in the
plan failing to take the actions described in
paragraph (1)—
‘‘(i) the assets of the plan attributable to em-
ployees of such employer (or beneficiaries of
such employees) will be transferred to a plan
maintained only by such employer (or its suc-
cessor), to an eligible retirement plan as defined
in section 402(c)(8)(B) for each individual whose
account is transferred, or to any other arrange-
ment that the Secretary determines is appro-
priate, unless the Secretary determines it is in
the best interests of the employees of such em-
ployer (and the beneficiaries of such employees)
to retain the assets in the plan, and
‘‘(ii) such employer (and not the plan with re-
spect to which the failure occurred or any other
employer in such plan) shall, except to the ex-
tent provided by the Secretary, be liable for any
liabilities with respect to such plan attributable
to employees of such employer (or beneficiaries
of such employees).
‘‘(B) FAILURES BY POOLED PLAN PROVIDERS.—
If the pooled plan provider of a plan described
in paragraph (1)(B) does not perform substan-
tially all of the administrative duties which are
required of the provider under paragraph
(3)(A)(i) for any plan year, the Secretary may
provide that the determination as to whether
the plan meets the requirements under this title
applicable to a plan described in section 401(a)
or to a plan that consists of individual retire-
ment accounts described in section 408 (includ-
ing by reason of subsection (c) thereof), which-
ever is applicable, shall be made in the same
manner as would be made without regard to
paragraph (1).
‘‘(3) POOLED PLAN PROVIDER.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sub-
section, the term ‘pooled plan provider’ means,
with respect to any plan, a person who—
‘‘(i) is designated by the terms of the plan as
a named fiduciary (within the meaning of sec-
tion 402(a)(2) of the Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act of 1974), as the plan adminis-
trator, and as the person responsible to perform
all administrative duties (including conducting
proper testing with respect to the plan and the
employees of each employer in the plan) which
are reasonably necessary to ensure that—
‘‘(I) the plan meets any requirement applica-
ble under the Employee Retirement Income Se-
curity Act of 1974 or this title to a plan de-
scribed in section 401(a) or to a plan that con-
sists of individual retirement accounts described
in section 408 (including by reason of subsection
(c) thereof), whichever is applicable, and
‘‘(II) each employer in the plan takes such ac-
tions as the Secretary or such person determines
are necessary for the plan to meet the require-
ments described in subclause (I), including pro-
viding to such person any disclosures or other
information which the Secretary may require or
which such person otherwise determines are
necessary to administer the plan or to allow the
plan to meet such requirements,
‘‘(ii) registers as a pooled plan provider with
the Secretary, and provides such other informa-
tion to the Secretary as the Secretary may re-
quire, before beginning operations as a pooled
plan provider,
‘‘(iii) acknowledges in writing that such per-
son is a named fiduciary (within the meaning of
section 402(a)(2) of the Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act of 1974), and the plan admin-
istrator, with respect to the plan, and
‘‘(iv) is responsible for ensuring that all per-
sons who handle assets of, or who are fidu-
ciaries of, the plan are bonded in accordance
with section 412 of the Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act of 1974.
‘‘(B) AUDITS, EXAMINATIONS AND INVESTIGA-
TIONS.—The Secretary may perform audits, ex-
aminations, and investigations of pooled plan
providers as may be necessary to enforce and
carry out the purposes of this subsection.
‘‘(C) AGGREGATION RULES.—For purposes of
this paragraph, in determining whether a per-
son meets the requirements of this paragraph to
be a pooled plan provider with respect to any
plan, all persons who perform services for the
plan and who are treated as a single employer
under subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section
414 shall be treated as one person.
‘‘(D) TREATMENT OF EMPLOYERS AS PLAN
SPONSORS.—Except with respect to the adminis-
trative duties of the pooled plan provider de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(i), each employer in
a plan which has a pooled plan provider shall
be treated as the plan sponsor with respect to
the portion of the plan attributable to employees
of such employer (or beneficiaries of such em-
ployees).
‘‘(4) GUIDANCE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall issue
such guidance as the Secretary determines ap-
propriate to carry out this subsection, including
guidance—
‘‘(i) to identify the administrative duties and
other actions required to be performed by a
pooled plan provider under this subsection,
‘‘(ii) which describes the procedures to be
taken to terminate a plan which fails to meet
the requirements to be a plan described in para-
graph (1), including the proper treatment of,
and actions needed to be taken by, any em-
ployer in the plan and the assets and liabilities
of the plan attributable to employees of such
employer (or beneficiaries of such employees),
and
‘‘(iii) identifying appropriate cases to which
the rules of paragraph (2)(A) will apply to em-
ployers in the plan failing to take the actions
described in paragraph (1).
The Secretary shall take into account under
clause (iii) whether the failure of an employer or
pooled plan provider to provide any disclosures
or other information, or to take any other ac-
tion, necessary to administer a plan or to allow
a plan to meet requirements applicable to the
plan under section 401(a) or 408, whichever is
applicable, has continued over a period of time
that demonstrates a lack of commitment to com-
pliance.
‘‘(B) GOOD FAITH COMPLIANCE WITH LAW BE-
FORE GUIDANCE.—An employer or pooled plan
provider shall not be treated as failing to meet
a requirement of guidance issued by the Sec-
retary under this paragraph if, before the
issuance of such guidance, the employer or
pooled plan provider complies in good faith with
a reasonable interpretation of the provisions of
this subsection to which such guidance relates.
‘‘(5) MODEL PLAN.—The Secretary shall pub-
lish model plan language which meets the re-
quirements of this subsection and of paragraphs
(43) and (44) of section 3 of the Employee Retire-
ment Income Security Act of 1974 and which
may be adopted in order for a plan to be treated
as a plan described in paragraph (1)(B).’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
413(c)(2) of such Code is amended by striking
‘‘section 401(a)’’ and inserting ‘‘sections 401(a)
and 408(c)’’.
(3) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 408(c) of
such Code is amended by inserting after para-
graph (2) the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) There is a separate accounting for any
interest of an employee or member (or spouse of
an employee or member) in a Roth IRA.’’.
(b) NO COMMON INTEREST REQUIRED FOR
POOLED EMPLOYER PLANS.—Section 3(2) of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(2)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(C) A pooled employer plan shall be treated
as—
‘‘(i) a single employee pension benefit plan or
single pension plan; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.001 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4126 May 23, 2019
‘‘(ii) a plan to which section 210(a) applies.’’.
(c) POOLED EMPLOYER PLAN AND PROVIDER
DEFINED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 3 of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29
U.S.C. 1002) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(43) POOLED EMPLOYER PLAN.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘pooled employer
plan’ means a plan—
‘‘(i) which is an individual account plan es-
tablished or maintained for the purpose of pro-
viding benefits to the employees of 2 or more em-
ployers;
‘‘(ii) which is a plan described in section
401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
which includes a trust exempt from tax under
section 501(a) of such Code or a plan that con-
sists of individual retirement accounts described
in section 408 of such Code (including by reason
of subsection (c) thereof); and
‘‘(iii) the terms of which meet the requirements
of subparagraph (B).
Such term shall not include a plan maintained
by employers which have a common interest
other than having adopted the plan.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS FOR PLAN TERMS.—The
requirements of this subparagraph are met with
respect to any plan if the terms of the plan—
‘‘(i) designate a pooled plan provider and pro-
vide that the pooled plan provider is a named fi-
duciary of the plan;
‘‘(ii) designate one or more trustees meeting
the requirements of section 408(a)(2) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 (other than an em-
ployer in the plan) to be responsible for col-
lecting contributions to, and holding the assets
of, the plan and require such trustees to imple-
ment written contribution collection procedures
that are reasonable, diligent, and systematic;
‘‘(iii) provide that each employer in the plan
retains fiduciary responsibility for—
‘‘(I) the selection and monitoring in accord-
ance with section 404(a) of the person des-
ignated as the pooled plan provider and any
other person who, in addition to the pooled plan
provider, is designated as a named fiduciary of
the plan; and
‘‘(II) to the extent not otherwise delegated to
another fiduciary by the pooled plan provider
and subject to the provisions of section 404(c),
the investment and management of the portion
of the plan’s assets attributable to the employees
of the employer (or beneficiaries of such employ-
ees);
‘‘(iv) provide that employers in the plan, and
participants and beneficiaries, are not subject to
unreasonable restrictions, fees, or penalties with
regard to ceasing participation, receipt of dis-
tributions, or otherwise transferring assets of
the plan in accordance with section 208 or para-
graph (44)(C)(i)(II);
‘‘(v) require—
‘‘(I) the pooled plan provider to provide to em-
ployers in the plan any disclosures or other in-
formation which the Secretary may require, in-
cluding any disclosures or other information to
facilitate the selection or any monitoring of the
pooled plan provider by employers in the plan;
and
‘‘(II) each employer in the plan to take such
actions as the Secretary or the pooled plan pro-
vider determines are necessary to administer the
plan or for the plan to meet any requirement ap-
plicable under this Act or the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to a plan described in section 401(a)
of such Code or to a plan that consists of indi-
vidual retirement accounts described in section
408 of such Code (including by reason of sub-
section (c) thereof), whichever is applicable, in-
cluding providing any disclosures or other infor-
mation which the Secretary may require or
which the pooled plan provider otherwise deter-
mines are necessary to administer the plan or to
allow the plan to meet such requirements; and
‘‘(vi) provide that any disclosure or other in-
formation required to be provided under clause
(v) may be provided in electronic form and will
be designed to ensure only reasonable costs are
imposed on pooled plan providers and employers
in the plan.
‘‘(C) EXCEPTIONS.—The term ‘pooled employer
plan’ does not include—
‘‘(i) a multiemployer plan; or
‘‘(ii) a plan established before the date of the
enactment of the Setting Every Community Up
for Retirement Enhancement Act of 2019 unless
the plan administrator elects that the plan will
be treated as a pooled employer plan and the
plan meets the requirements of this title applica-
ble to a pooled employer plan established on or
after such date.
‘‘(D) TREATMENT OF EMPLOYERS AS PLAN
SPONSORS.—Except with respect to the adminis-
trative duties of the pooled plan provider de-
scribed in paragraph (44)(A)(i), each employer
in a pooled employer plan shall be treated as the
plan sponsor with respect to the portion of the
plan attributable to employees of such employer
(or beneficiaries of such employees).
‘‘(44) POOLED PLAN PROVIDER.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘pooled plan pro-
vider’ means a person who—
‘‘(i) is designated by the terms of a pooled em-
ployer plan as a named fiduciary, as the plan
administrator, and as the person responsible for
the performance of all administrative duties (in-
cluding conducting proper testing with respect
to the plan and the employees of each employer
in the plan) which are reasonably necessary to
ensure that—
‘‘(I) the plan meets any requirement applica-
ble under this Act or the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 to a plan described in section 401(a) of
such Code or to a plan that consists of indi-
vidual retirement accounts described in section
408 of such Code (including by reason of sub-
section (c) thereof), whichever is applicable; and
‘‘(II) each employer in the plan takes such ac-
tions as the Secretary or pooled plan provider
determines are necessary for the plan to meet
the requirements described in subclause (I), in-
cluding providing the disclosures and informa-
tion described in paragraph (43)(B)(v)(II);
‘‘(ii) registers as a pooled plan provider with
the Secretary, and provides to the Secretary
such other information as the Secretary may re-
quire, before beginning operations as a pooled
plan provider;
‘‘(iii) acknowledges in writing that such per-
son is a named fiduciary, and the plan adminis-
trator, with respect to the pooled employer plan;
and
‘‘(iv) is responsible for ensuring that all per-
sons who handle assets of, or who are fidu-
ciaries of, the pooled employer plan are bonded
in accordance with section 412.
‘‘(B) AUDITS, EXAMINATIONS AND INVESTIGA-
TIONS.—The Secretary may perform audits, ex-
aminations, and investigations of pooled plan
providers as may be necessary to enforce and
carry out the purposes of this paragraph and
paragraph (43).
‘‘(C) GUIDANCE.—The Secretary shall issue
such guidance as the Secretary determines ap-
propriate to carry out this paragraph and para-
graph (43), including guidance—
‘‘(i) to identify the administrative duties and
other actions required to be performed by a
pooled plan provider under either such para-
graph; and
‘‘(ii) which requires in appropriate cases that
if an employer in the plan fails to take the ac-
tions required under subparagraph (A)(i)(II)—
‘‘(I) the assets of the plan attributable to em-
ployees of such employer (or beneficiaries of
such employees) are transferred to a plan main-
tained only by such employer (or its successor),
to an eligible retirement plan as defined in sec-
tion 402(c)(8)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 for each individual whose account is
transferred, or to any other arrangement that
the Secretary determines is appropriate in such
guidance; and
‘‘(II) such employer (and not the plan with re-
spect to which the failure occurred or any other
employer in such plan) shall, except to the ex-
tent provided in such guidance, be liable for any
liabilities with respect to such plan attributable
to employees of such employer (or beneficiaries
of such employees).
The Secretary shall take into account under
clause (ii) whether the failure of an employer or
pooled plan provider to provide any disclosures
or other information, or to take any other ac-
tion, necessary to administer a plan or to allow
a plan to meet requirements described in sub-
paragraph (A)(i)(II) has continued over a period
of time that demonstrates a lack of commitment
to compliance. The Secretary may waive the re-
quirements of subclause (ii)(I) in appropriate
circumstances if the Secretary determines it is in
the best interests of the employees of the em-
ployer referred to in such clause (and the bene-
ficiaries of such employees) to retain the assets
in the plan with respect to which the employer’s
failure occurred.
‘‘(D) GOOD FAITH COMPLIANCE WITH LAW BE-
FORE GUIDANCE.—An employer or pooled plan
provider shall not be treated as failing to meet
a requirement of guidance issued by the Sec-
retary under subparagraph (C) if, before the
issuance of such guidance, the employer or
pooled plan provider complies in good faith with
a reasonable interpretation of the provisions of
this paragraph, or paragraph (43), to which
such guidance relates.
‘‘(E) AGGREGATION RULES.—For purposes of
this paragraph, in determining whether a per-
son meets the requirements of this paragraph to
be a pooled plan provider with respect to any
plan, all persons who perform services for the
plan and who are treated as a single employer
under subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section
414 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall
be treated as one person.’’.
(2) BONDING REQUIREMENTS FOR POOLED EM-
PLOYER PLANS.—The last sentence of section
412(a) of the Employee Retirement Income Secu-
rity Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1112(a)) is amended
by inserting ‘‘or in the case of a pooled employer
plan (as defined in section 3(43))’’ after ‘‘section
407(d)(1))’’.
(3) CONFORMING AND TECHNICAL AMEND-
MENTS.—Section 3 of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002) is
amended—
(A) in paragraph (16)(B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of clause (ii);
and
(ii) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘, or (iv) in the case of a pooled em-
ployer plan, the pooled plan provider.’’; and
(B) by striking the second paragraph (41).
(d) POOLED EMPLOYER AND MULTIPLE EM-
PLOYER PLAN REPORTING.—
(1) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—Section 103 of
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1023) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(1)(B), by striking ‘‘appli-
cable subsections (d), (e), and (f)’’ and inserting
‘‘applicable subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g)’’;
and
(B) by amending subsection (g) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(g) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WITH RESPECT
TO POOLED EMPLOYER AND MULTIPLE EM-
PLOYER PLANS.—An annual report under this
section for a plan year shall include—
‘‘(1) with respect to any plan to which section
210(a) applies (including a pooled employer
plan), a list of employers in the plan and a good
faith estimate of the percentage of total con-
tributions made by such employers during the
plan year and the aggregate account balances
attributable to each employer in the plan (deter-
mined as the sum of the account balances of the
employees of such employer (and the bene-
ficiaries of such employees)); and
‘‘(2) with respect to a pooled employer plan,
the identifying information for the person des-
ignated under the terms of the plan as the
pooled plan provider.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.001 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4127
May 23, 2019
(2) SIMPLIFIED ANNUAL REPORTS.—Section
104(a) of the Employee Retirement Income Secu-
rity Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1024(a)) is amended
by striking paragraph (2)(A) and inserting the
following:
‘‘(2)(A) With respect to annual reports re-
quired to be filed with the Secretary under this
part, the Secretary may by regulation prescribe
simplified annual reports for any pension plan
that—
‘‘(i) covers fewer than 100 participants; or
‘‘(ii) is a plan described in section 210(a) that
covers fewer than 1,000 participants, but only if
no single employer in the plan has 100 or more
participants covered by the plan.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by
this section shall apply to plan years beginning
after December 31, 2020.
(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in the
amendments made by subsection (a) shall be
construed as limiting the authority of the Sec-
retary of the Treasury or the Secretary’s dele-
gate (determined without regard to such amend-
ment) to provide for the proper treatment of a
failure to meet any requirement applicable
under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with
respect to one employer (and its employees) in a
multiple employer plan.
SEC. 102. INCREASE IN 10 PERCENT CAP FOR
AUTOMATIC ENROLLMENT SAFE
HARBOR AFTER 1ST PLAN YEAR.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 401(k)(13)(C)(iii) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by striking ‘‘does not exceed 10 percent’’ and in-
serting ‘‘does not exceed 15 percent (10 percent
during the period described in subclause (I))’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to plan years begin-
ning after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 103. RULES RELATING TO ELECTION OF
SAFE HARBOR 401(k) STATUS.
(a) LIMITATION OF ANNUAL SAFE HARBOR NO-
TICE TO MATCHING CONTRIBUTION PLANS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) of section
401(k)(12) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
is amended by striking ‘‘if such arrangement’’
and all that follows and inserting ‘‘if such ar-
rangement—
‘‘(i) meets the contribution requirements of
subparagraph (B) and the notice requirements
of subparagraph (D), or
‘‘(ii) meets the contribution requirements of
subparagraph (C).’’.
(2) AUTOMATIC CONTRIBUTION ARRANGE-
MENTS.—Subparagraph (B) of section 401(k)(13)
of such Code is amended by striking ‘‘means’’
and all that follows and inserting ‘‘means a
cash or deferred arrangement—
‘‘(i) which is described in subparagraph
(D)(i)(I) and meets the applicable requirements
of subparagraphs (C) through (E), or
‘‘(ii) which is described in subparagraph
(D)(i)(II) and meets the applicable requirements
of subparagraphs (C) and (D).’’.
(b) NONELECTIVE CONTRIBUTIONS.—Section
401(k)(12) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
is amended by redesignating subparagraph (F)
as subparagraph (G), and by inserting after sub-
paragraph (E) the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(F) TIMING OF PLAN AMENDMENT FOR EM-
PLOYER MAKING NONELECTIVE CONTRIBUTIONS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), a plan may be amended after the be-
ginning of a plan year to provide that the re-
quirements of subparagraph (C) shall apply to
the arrangement for the plan year, but only if
the amendment is adopted—
‘‘(I) at any time before the 30th day before the
close of the plan year, or
‘‘(II) at any time before the last day under
paragraph (8)(A) for distributing excess con-
tributions for the plan year.
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION WHERE PLAN PROVIDED FOR
MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS.—Clause (i) shall not
apply to any plan year if the plan provided at
any time during the plan year that the require-
ments of subparagraph (B) or paragraph
(13)(D)(i)(I) applied to the plan year.
‘‘(iii) 4-PERCENT CONTRIBUTION REQUIRE-
MENT.—Clause (i)(II) shall not apply to an ar-
rangement unless the amount of the contribu-
tions described in subparagraph (C) which the
employer is required to make under the arrange-
ment for the plan year with respect to any em-
ployee is an amount equal to at least 4 percent
of the employee’s compensation.’’.
(c) AUTOMATIC CONTRIBUTION ARRANGE-
MENTS.—Section 401(k)(13) of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the
end the following :
‘‘(F) TIMING OF PLAN AMENDMENT FOR EM-
PLOYER MAKING NONELECTIVE CONTRIBUTIONS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), a plan may be amended after the be-
ginning of a plan year to provide that the re-
quirements of subparagraph (D)(i)(II) shall
apply to the arrangement for the plan year, but
only if the amendment is adopted—
‘‘(I) at any time before the 30th day before the
close of the plan year, or
‘‘(II) at any time before the last day under
paragraph (8)(A) for distributing excess con-
tributions for the plan year.
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION WHERE PLAN PROVIDED FOR
MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS.—Clause (i) shall not
apply to any plan year if the plan provided at
any time during the plan year that the require-
ments of subparagraph (D)(i)(I) or paragraph
(12)(B) applied to the plan year.
‘‘(iii) 4-PERCENT CONTRIBUTION REQUIRE-
MENT.—Clause (i)(II) shall not apply to an ar-
rangement unless the amount of the contribu-
tions described in subparagraph (D)(i)(II) which
the employer is required to make under the ar-
rangement for the plan year with respect to any
employee is an amount equal to at least 4 per-
cent of the employee’s compensation.’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to plan years begin-
ning after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 104. INCREASE IN CREDIT LIMITATION FOR
SMALL EMPLOYER PENSION PLAN
STARTUP COSTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) of section
45E(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(1) for the first credit year and each of the
2 taxable years immediately following the first
credit year, the greater of—
‘‘(A) $500, or
‘‘(B) the lesser of—
‘‘(i) $250 for each employee of the eligible em-
ployer who is not a highly compensated em-
ployee (as defined in section 414(q)) and who is
eligible to participate in the eligible employer
plan maintained by the eligible employer, or
‘‘(ii) $5,000, and’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by this section shall apply to taxable years be-
ginning after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 105. SMALL EMPLOYER AUTOMATIC ENROLL-
MENT CREDIT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subpart D of part IV of sub-
chapter A of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 45T. AUTO-ENROLLMENT OPTION FOR RE-
TIREMENT SAVINGS OPTIONS PRO-
VIDED BY SMALL EMPLOYERS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section 38,
in the case of an eligible employer, the retire-
ment auto-enrollment credit determined under
this section for any taxable year is an amount
equal to—
‘‘(1) $500 for any taxable year occurring dur-
ing the credit period, and
‘‘(2) zero for any other taxable year.
‘‘(b) CREDIT PERIOD.—For purposes of sub-
section (a)—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The credit period with re-
spect to any eligible employer is the 3-taxable-
year period beginning with the first taxable year
for which the employer includes an eligible
automatic contribution arrangement (as defined
in section 414(w)(3)) in a qualified employer
plan (as defined in section 4972(d)) sponsored by
the employer.
‘‘(2) MAINTENANCE OF ARRANGEMENT.—No tax-
able year with respect to an employer shall be
treated as occurring within the credit period un-
less the arrangement described in paragraph (1)
is included in the plan for such year.
‘‘(c) ELIGIBLE EMPLOYER.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘eligible employer’ has the
meaning given such term in section
408(p)(2)(C)(i).’’.
(b) CREDIT TO BE PART OF GENERAL BUSINESS
CREDIT.—Subsection (b) of section 38 of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
striking ‘‘plus’’ at the end of paragraph (31), by
striking the period at the end of paragraph (32)
and inserting ‘‘, plus’’, and by adding at the
end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(33) in the case of an eligible employer (as
defined in section 45T(c)), the retirement auto-
enrollment credit determined under section
45T(a).’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sec-
tions for subpart D of part IV of subchapter A
of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended by inserting after the item relat-
ing to section 45S the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 45T. Auto-enrollment option for retire-
ment savings options provided by
small employers.’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to taxable years be-
ginning after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 106. CERTAIN TAXABLE NON-TUITION FEL-
LOWSHIP AND STIPEND PAYMENTS
TREATED AS COMPENSATION FOR
IRA PURPOSES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) of section
219(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘The term ‘compensation’ shall include any
amount which is included in the individual’s
gross income and paid to the individual to aid
the individual in the pursuit of graduate or
postdoctoral study.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by this section shall apply to taxable years be-
ginning after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 107. REPEAL OF MAXIMUM AGE FOR TRADI-
TIONAL IRA CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (1) of section
219(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
repealed.
(b) COORDINATION WITH QUALIFIED CHARI-
TABLE DISTRIBUTIONS.—Add at the end of sec-
tion 408(d)(8)(A) of such Code the following:
‘‘The amount of distributions not includible in
gross income by reason of the preceding sen-
tence for a taxable year (determined without re-
gard to this sentence) shall be reduced (but not
below zero) by an amount equal to the excess
of—
‘‘(i) the aggregate amount of deductions al-
lowed to the taxpayer under section 219 for all
taxable years ending on or after the date the
taxpayer attains age 701⁄2, over
‘‘(ii) the aggregate amount of reductions
under this sentence for all taxable years pre-
ceding the current taxable year.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subsection (c)
of section 408A of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended by striking paragraph (4) and
by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), and (7) as
paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), respectively.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in para-
graph (2), the amendments made by this section
shall apply to contributions made for taxable
years beginning after December 31, 2019.
(2) SUBSECTION (b).—The amendment made by
subsection (b) shall apply to distributions made
for taxable years beginning after December 31,
2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:15 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.001 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4128 May 23, 2019
SEC. 108. QUALIFIED EMPLOYER PLANS PROHIB-
ITED FROM MAKING LOANS
THROUGH CREDIT CARDS AND
OTHER SIMILAR ARRANGEMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (2) of section
72(p) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended by redesignating subparagraph (D) as
subparagraph (E) and by inserting after sub-
paragraph (C) the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(D) PROHIBITION OF LOANS THROUGH CREDIT
CARDS AND OTHER SIMILAR ARRANGEMENTS.—
Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to any loan
which is made through the use of any credit
card or any other similar arrangement.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by subsection (a) shall apply to loans made after
the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 109. PORTABILITY OF LIFETIME INCOME OP-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section 401
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by inserting after paragraph (37) the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(38) PORTABILITY OF LIFETIME INCOME.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as may be other-
wise provided by regulations, a trust forming
part of a defined contribution plan shall not be
treated as failing to constitute a qualified trust
under this section solely by reason of allowing—
‘‘(i) qualified distributions of a lifetime income
investment, or
‘‘(ii) distributions of a lifetime income invest-
ment in the form of a qualified plan distribution
annuity contract,
on or after the date that is 90 days prior to the
date on which such lifetime income investment
is no longer authorized to be held as an invest-
ment option under the plan.
‘‘(B) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sub-
section—
‘‘(i) the term ‘qualified distribution’ means a
direct trustee-to-trustee transfer described in
paragraph (31)(A) to an eligible retirement plan
(as defined in section 402(c)(8)(B)),
‘‘(ii) the term ‘lifetime income investment’
means an investment option which is designed
to provide an employee with election rights—
‘‘(I) which are not uniformly available with
respect to other investment options under the
plan, and
‘‘(II) which are to a lifetime income feature
available through a contract or other arrange-
ment offered under the plan (or under another
eligible retirement plan (as so defined), if paid
by means of a direct trustee-to-trustee transfer
described in paragraph (31)(A) to such other eli-
gible retirement plan),
‘‘(iii) the term ‘lifetime income feature’
means—
‘‘(I) a feature which guarantees a minimum
level of income annually (or more frequently)
for at least the remainder of the life of the em-
ployee or the joint lives of the employee and the
employee’s designated beneficiary, or
‘‘(II) an annuity payable on behalf of the em-
ployee under which payments are made in sub-
stantially equal periodic payments (not less fre-
quently than annually) over the life of the em-
ployee or the joint lives of the employee and the
employee’s designated beneficiary, and
‘‘(iv) the term ‘qualified plan distribution an-
nuity contract’ means an annuity contract pur-
chased for a participant and distributed to the
participant by a plan or contract described in
subparagraph (B) of section 402(c)(8) (without
regard to clauses (i) and (ii) thereof).’’.
(b) CASH OR DEFERRED ARRANGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Clause (i) of section
401(k)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of
subclause (IV), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of
subclause (V) and inserting ‘‘or’’, and by add-
ing at the end the following new subclause:
‘‘(VI) except as may be otherwise provided by
regulations, with respect to amounts invested in
a lifetime income investment (as defined in sub-
section (a)(38)(B)(ii)), the date that is 90 days
prior to the date that such lifetime income in-
vestment may no longer be held as an invest-
ment option under the arrangement, and’’.
(2) DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENT.—Subpara-
graph (B) of section 401(k)(2) of such Code, as
amended by paragraph (1), is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘and’’ at the end of clause (i), by striking
the semicolon at the end of clause (ii) and in-
serting ‘‘, and’’, and by adding at the end the
following new clause:
‘‘(iii) except as may be otherwise provided by
regulations, in the case of amounts described in
clause (i)(VI), will be distributed only in the
form of a qualified distribution (as defined in
subsection (a)(38)(B)(i)) or a qualified plan dis-
tribution annuity contract (as defined in sub-
section (a)(38)(B)(iv)),’’.
(c) SECTION 403(b) PLANS.—
(1) ANNUITY CONTRACTS.—Paragraph (11) of
section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of
subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the
end of subparagraph (C) and inserting ‘‘, or’’,
and by inserting after subparagraph (C) the fol-
lowing new subparagraph:
‘‘(D) except as may be otherwise provided by
regulations, with respect to amounts invested in
a lifetime income investment (as defined in sec-
tion 401(a)(38)(B)(ii))—
‘‘(i) on or after the date that is 90 days prior
to the date that such lifetime income investment
may no longer be held as an investment option
under the contract, and
‘‘(ii) in the form of a qualified distribution (as
defined in section 401(a)(38)(B)(i)) or a qualified
plan distribution annuity contract (as defined
in section 401(a)(38)(B)(iv)).’’.
(2) CUSTODIAL ACCOUNTS.—Subparagraph (A)
of section 403(b)(7) of such Code is amended by
striking ‘‘if—’’ and all that follows and insert-
ing ‘‘if the amounts are to be invested in regu-
lated investment company stock to be held in
that custodial account, and under the custodial
account—
‘‘(i) no such amounts may be paid or made
available to any distributee (unless such amount
is a distribution to which section 72(t)(2)(G) ap-
plies) before—
‘‘(I) the employee dies,
‘‘(II) the employee attains age 591⁄2,
‘‘(III) the employee has a severance from em-
ployment,
‘‘(IV) the employee becomes disabled (within
the meaning of section 72(m)(7)),
‘‘(V) in the case of contributions made pursu-
ant to a salary reduction agreement (within the
meaning of section 3121(a)(5)(D)), the employee
encounters financial hardship, or
‘‘(VI) except as may be otherwise provided by
regulations, with respect to amounts invested in
a lifetime income investment (as defined in sec-
tion 401(a)(38)(B)(ii)), the date that is 90 days
prior to the date that such lifetime income in-
vestment may no longer be held as an invest-
ment option under the contract, and
‘‘(ii) in the case of amounts described in
clause (i)(VI), such amounts will be distributed
only in the form of a qualified distribution (as
defined in section 401(a)(38)(B)(i)) or a qualified
plan distribution annuity contract (as defined
in section 401(a)(38)(B)(iv)).’’.
(d) ELIGIBLE DEFERRED COMPENSATION
PLANS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) of section
457(d)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of clause
(ii), by inserting ‘‘or’’ at the end of clause (iii),
and by adding after clause (iii) the following:
‘‘(iv) except as may be otherwise provided by
regulations, in the case of a plan maintained by
an employer described in subsection (e)(1)(A),
with respect to amounts invested in a lifetime
income investment (as defined in section
401(a)(38)(B)(ii)), the date that is 90 days prior
to the date that such lifetime income investment
may no longer be held as an investment option
under the plan,’’.
(2) DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENT.—Paragraph
(1) of section 457(d) of such Code is amended by
striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of subparagraph (B),
by striking the period at the end of subpara-
graph (C) and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and by insert-
ing after subparagraph (C) the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(D) except as may be otherwise provided by
regulations, in the case of amounts described in
subparagraph (A)(iv), such amounts will be dis-
tributed only in the form of a qualified distribu-
tion (as defined in section 401(a)(38)(B)(i)) or a
qualified plan distribution annuity contract (as
defined in section 401(a)(38)(B)(iv)).’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to plan years begin-
ning after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 110. TREATMENT OF CUSTODIAL ACCOUNTS
ON TERMINATION OF SECTION 403(b)
PLANS.
Not later than six months after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treas-
ury shall issue guidance to provide that, if an
employer terminates the plan under which
amounts are contributed to a custodial account
under subparagraph (A) of section 403(b)(7), the
plan administrator or custodian may distribute
an individual custodial account in kind to a
participant or beneficiary of the plan and the
distributed custodial account shall be main-
tained by the custodian on a tax-deferred basis
as a section 403(b)(7) custodial account, similar
to the treatment of fully-paid individual annu-
ity contracts under Revenue Ruling 2011–7, until
amounts are actually paid to the participant or
beneficiary. The guidance shall provide further
(i) that the section 403(b)(7) status of the distrib-
uted custodial account is generally maintained
if the custodial account thereafter adheres to
the requirements of section 403(b) that are in ef-
fect at the time of the distribution of the ac-
count and (ii) that a custodial account would
not be considered distributed to the participant
or beneficiary if the employer has any material
retained rights under the account (but the em-
ployer would not be treated as retaining mate-
rial rights simply because the custodial account
was originally opened under a group contract).
Such guidance shall be retroactively effective
for taxable years beginning after December 31,
2008.
SEC. 111. CLARIFICATION OF RETIREMENT IN-
COME ACCOUNT RULES RELATING
TO CHURCH-CONTROLLED ORGANI-
ZATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (B) of section
403(b)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended by inserting ‘‘(including an employee
described in section 414(e)(3)(B))’’ after ‘‘em-
ployee described in paragraph (1)’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by this section shall apply to years beginning
before, on, or after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
SEC. 112. QUALIFIED CASH OR DEFERRED AR-
RANGEMENTS MUST ALLOW LONG-
TERM EMPLOYEES WORKING MORE
THAN 500 BUT LESS THAN 1,000
HOURS PER YEAR TO PARTICIPATE.
(a) PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 401(k)(2)(D) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(D) which does not require, as a condition of
participation in the arrangement, that an em-
ployee complete a period of service with the em-
ployer (or employers) maintaining the plan ex-
tending beyond the close of the earlier of—
‘‘(i) the period permitted under section
410(a)(1) (determined without regard to sub-
paragraph (B)(i) thereof), or
‘‘(ii) subject to the provisions of paragraph
(15), the first period of 3 consecutive 12-month
periods during each of which the employee has
at least 500 hours of service.’’.
(2) SPECIAL RULES.—Section 401(k) of such
Code is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(15) SPECIAL RULES FOR PARTICIPATION RE-
QUIREMENT FOR LONG-TERM, PART-TIME WORK-
ERS.—For purposes of paragraph (2)(D)(ii)—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.001 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4129
May 23, 2019
‘‘(A) AGE REQUIREMENT MUST BE MET.—Para-
graph (2)(D)(ii) shall not apply to an employee
unless the employee has met the requirement of
section 410(a)(1)(A)(i) by the close of the last of
the 12-month periods described in such para-
graph.
‘‘(B) NONDISCRIMINATION AND TOP-HEAVY
RULES NOT TO APPLY.—
‘‘(i) NONDISCRIMINATION RULES.—In the case
of employees who are eligible to participate in
the arrangement solely by reason of paragraph
(2)(D)(ii)—
‘‘(I) notwithstanding subsection (a)(4), an em-
ployer shall not be required to make nonelective
or matching contributions on behalf of such em-
ployees even if such contributions are made on
behalf of other employees eligible to participate
in the arrangement, and
‘‘(II) an employer may elect to exclude such
employees from the application of subsection
(a)(4), paragraphs (3), (12), and (13), subsection
(m)(2), and section 410(b).
‘‘(ii) TOP-HEAVY RULES.—An employer may
elect to exclude all employees who are eligible to
participate in a plan maintained by the em-
ployer solely by reason of paragraph (2)(D)(ii)
from the application of the vesting and benefit
requirements under subsections (b) and (c) of
section 416.
‘‘(iii) VESTING.—For purposes of determining
whether an employee described in clause (i) has
a nonforfeitable right to employer contributions
(other than contributions described in para-
graph (3)(D)(i)) under the arrangement, each
12-month period for which the employee has at
least 500 hours of service shall be treated as a
year of service and section 411(a)(6) shall be ap-
plied by substituting ‘at least 500 hours of serv-
ice’ for ‘more than 500 hours of service’ in sub-
paragraph (A) thereof.
‘‘(iv) EMPLOYEES WHO BECOME FULL-TIME EM-
PLOYEES.—This subparagraph (other than
clause (iii)) shall cease to apply to any employee
as of the first plan year beginning after the plan
year in which the employee meets the require-
ments of section 410(a)(1)(A)(ii) without regard
to paragraph (2)(D)(ii).
‘‘(C) EXCEPTION FOR EMPLOYEES UNDER COL-
LECTIVELY BARGAINED PLANS, ETC.—Paragraph
(2)(D)(ii) shall not apply to employees described
in section 410(b)(3).
‘‘(D) SPECIAL RULES.—
‘‘(i) TIME OF PARTICIPATION.—The rules of
section 410(a)(4) shall apply to an employee eli-
gible to participate in an arrangement solely by
reason of paragraph (2)(D)(ii).
‘‘(ii) 12-MONTH PERIODS.—12-month periods
shall be determined in the same manner as
under the last sentence of section 410(a)(3)(A).’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to plan years begin-
ning after December 31, 2020, except that, for
purposes of section 401(k)(2)(D)(ii) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 (as added by such
amendments), 12-month periods beginning before
January 1, 2021, shall not be taken into account.
SEC. 113. PENALTY-FREE WITHDRAWALS FROM
RETIREMENT PLANS FOR INDIVID-
UALS IN CASE OF BIRTH OF CHILD
OR ADOPTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 72(t)(2) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding
at the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(H) DISTRIBUTIONS FROM RETIREMENT PLANS
IN CASE OF BIRTH OF CHILD OR ADOPTION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Any qualified birth or
adoption distribution.
‘‘(ii) LIMITATION.—The aggregate amount
which may be treated as qualified birth or adop-
tion distributions by any individual with respect
to any birth or adoption shall not exceed $5,000.
‘‘(iii) QUALIFIED BIRTH OR ADOPTION DIS-
TRIBUTION.—For purposes of this subpara-
graph—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified birth or
adoption distribution’ means any distribution
from an applicable eligible retirement plan to an
individual if made during the 1-year period be-
ginning on the date on which a child of the in-
dividual is born or on which the legal adoption
by the individual of an eligible adoptee is final-
ized.
‘‘(II) ELIGIBLE ADOPTEE.—The term ‘eligible
adoptee’ means any individual (other than a
child of the taxpayer’s spouse) who has not at-
tained age 18 or is physically or mentally in-
capable of self-support.
‘‘(iv) TREATMENT OF PLAN DISTRIBUTIONS.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—If a distribution to an indi-
vidual would (without regard to clause (ii)) be a
qualified birth or adoption distribution, a plan
shall not be treated as failing to meet any re-
quirement of this title merely because the plan
treats the distribution as a qualified birth or
adoption distribution, unless the aggregate
amount of such distributions from all plans
maintained by the employer (and any member of
any controlled group which includes the em-
ployer) to such individual exceeds $5,000.
‘‘(II) CONTROLLED GROUP.—For purposes of
subclause (I), the term ‘controlled group’ means
any group treated as a single employer under
subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section 414.
‘‘(v) AMOUNT DISTRIBUTED MAY BE REPAID.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Any individual who re-
ceives a qualified birth or adoption distribution
may make one or more contributions in an ag-
gregate amount not to exceed the amount of
such distribution to an applicable eligible retire-
ment plan of which such individual is a bene-
ficiary and to which a rollover contribution of
such distribution could be made under section
402(c), 403(a)(4), 403(b)(8), 408(d)(3), or
457(e)(16), as the case may be.
‘‘(II) LIMITATION ON CONTRIBUTIONS TO APPLI-
CABLE ELIGIBLE RETIREMENT PLANS OTHER THAN
IRAS.—The aggregate amount of contributions
made by an individual under subclause (I) to
any applicable eligible retirement plan which is
not an individual retirement plan shall not ex-
ceed the aggregate amount of qualified birth or
adoption distributions which are made from
such plan to such individual. Subclause (I) shall
not apply to contributions to any applicable eli-
gible retirement plan which is not an individual
retirement plan unless the individual is eligible
to make contributions (other than those de-
scribed in subclause (I)) to such applicable eligi-
ble retirement plan.
‘‘(III) TREATMENT OF REPAYMENTS OF DIS-
TRIBUTIONS FROM APPLICABLE ELIGIBLE RETIRE-
MENT PLANS OTHER THAN IRAs.—If a contribu-
tion is made under subclause (I) with respect to
a qualified birth or adoption distribution from
an applicable eligible retirement plan other than
an individual retirement plan, then the tax-
payer shall, to the extent of the amount of the
contribution, be treated as having received such
distribution in an eligible rollover distribution
(as defined in section 402(c)(4)) and as having
transferred the amount to the applicable eligible
retirement plan in a direct trustee to trustee
transfer within 60 days of the distribution.
‘‘(IV) TREATMENT OF REPAYMENTS FOR DIS-
TRIBUTIONS FROM IRAS.—If a contribution is
made under subclause (I) with respect to a
qualified birth or adoption distribution from an
individual retirement plan, then, to the extent
of the amount of the contribution, such distribu-
tion shall be treated as a distribution described
in section 408(d)(3) and as having been trans-
ferred to the applicable eligible retirement plan
in a direct trustee to trustee transfer within 60
days of the distribution.
‘‘(vi) DEFINITION AND SPECIAL RULES.—For
purposes of this subparagraph—
‘‘(I) APPLICABLE ELIGIBLE RETIREMENT
PLAN.—The term ‘applicable eligible retirement
plan’ means an eligible retirement plan (as de-
fined in section 402(c)(8)(B)) other than a de-
fined benefit plan.
‘‘(II) EXEMPTION OF DISTRIBUTIONS FROM
TRUSTEE TO TRUSTEE TRANSFER AND WITH-
HOLDING RULES.—For purposes of sections
401(a)(31), 402(f), and 3405, a qualified birth or
adoption distribution shall not be treated as an
eligible rollover distribution.
‘‘(III) TAXPAYER MUST INCLUDE TIN.—A dis-
tribution shall not be treated as a qualified birth
or adoption distribution with respect to any
child or eligible adoptee unless the taxpayer in-
cludes the name, age, and TIN of such child or
eligible adoptee on the taxpayer’s return of tax
for the taxable year.
‘‘(IV) DISTRIBUTIONS TREATED AS MEETING
PLAN DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS.—Any quali-
fied birth or adoption distribution shall be treat-
ed as meeting the requirements of sections
401(k)(2)(B)(i), 403(b)(7)(A)(ii), 403(b)(11), and
457(d)(1)(A).’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to distributions made
after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 114. INCREASE IN AGE FOR REQUIRED BE-
GINNING DATE FOR MANDATORY
DISTRIBUTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 401(a)(9)(C)(i)(I) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by striking ‘‘age 701⁄2’’ and inserting ‘‘age 72’’.
(b) SPOUSE BENEFICIARIES; SPECIAL RULE FOR
OWNERS.—Subparagraphs (B)(iv)(I) and
(C)(ii)(I) of section 401(a)(9) of such Code are
each amended by striking ‘‘age 701⁄2’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘age 72’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) The last sentence of section 408(b) of such
Code is amended by striking ‘‘age 701⁄2’’ and in-
serting ‘‘age 72’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to distributions re-
quired to be made after December 31, 2019, with
respect to individuals who attain age 701⁄2 after
such date.
SEC. 115. SPECIAL RULES FOR MINIMUM FUND-
ING STANDARDS FOR COMMUNITY
NEWSPAPER PLANS.
(a) AMENDMENT TO INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
OF 1986.—Section 430 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(m) SPECIAL RULES FOR COMMUNITY NEWS-
PAPER PLANS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The plan sponsor of a com-
munity newspaper plan under which no partici-
pant has had the participant’s accrued benefit
increased (whether because of service or com-
pensation) after December 31, 2017, may elect to
have the alternative standards described in
paragraph (3) apply to such plan, and any plan
sponsored by any member of the same controlled
group.
‘‘(2) ELECTION.—An election under paragraph
(1) shall be made at such time and in such man-
ner as prescribed by the Secretary. Such elec-
tion, once made with respect to a plan year,
shall apply to all subsequent plan years unless
revoked with the consent of the Secretary.
‘‘(3) ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM FUNDING STAND-
ARDS.—The alternative standards described in
this paragraph are the following:
‘‘(A) INTEREST RATES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection
(h)(2)(C) and except as provided in clause (ii),
the first, second, and third segment rates in ef-
fect for any month for purposes of this section
shall be 8 percent.
‘‘(ii) NEW BENEFIT ACCRUALS.—Notwith-
standing subsection (h)(2), for purposes of deter-
mining the funding target and normal cost of a
plan for any plan year, the present value of any
benefits accrued or earned under the plan for a
plan year with respect to which an election
under paragraph (1) is in effect shall be deter-
mined on the basis of the U.S. Treasury obliga-
tion yield curve for the day that is the valuation
date of such plan for such plan year.
‘‘(iii) U.S. TREASURY OBLIGATION YIELD
CURVE.—For purposes of this subsection, the
term ‘U.S. Treasury obligation yield curve’
means, with respect to any day, a yield curve
which shall be prescribed by the Secretary for
such day on interest-bearing obligations of the
United States.
‘‘(B) SHORTFALL AMORTIZATION BASE.—
‘‘(i) PREVIOUS SHORTFALL AMORTIZATION
BASES.—The shortfall amortization bases deter-
mined under subsection (c)(3) for all plan years
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.001 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4130 May 23, 2019
preceding the first plan year to which the elec-
tion under paragraph (1) applies (and all short-
fall amortization installments determined with
respect to such bases) shall be reduced to zero
under rules similar to the rules of subsection
(c)(6).
‘‘(ii) NEW SHORTFALL AMORTIZATION BASE.—
Notwithstanding subsection (c)(3), the shortfall
amortization base for the first plan year to
which the election under paragraph (1) applies
shall be the funding shortfall of such plan for
such plan year (determined using the interest
rates as modified under subparagraph (A)).
‘‘(C) DETERMINATION OF SHORTFALL AMORTI-
ZATION INSTALLMENTS.—
‘‘(i) 30-YEAR PERIOD.—Subparagraphs (A) and
(B) of subsection (c)(2) shall be applied by sub-
stituting ‘30-plan-year’ for ‘7-plan-year’ each
place it appears.
‘‘(ii) NO SPECIAL ELECTION.—The election
under subparagraph (D) of subsection (c)(2)
shall not apply to any plan year to which the
election under paragraph (1) applies.
‘‘(D) EXEMPTION FROM AT-RISK TREATMENT.—
Subsection (i) shall not apply.
‘‘(4) COMMUNITY NEWSPAPER PLAN.—For pur-
poses of this subsection—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘community
newspaper plan’ means a plan to which this sec-
tion applies maintained by an employer which,
as of December 31, 2017—
‘‘(i) publishes and distributes daily, either
electronically or in printed form, 1 or more com-
munity newspapers in a single State,
‘‘(ii) is not a company the stock of which is
publicly traded (on a stock exchange or in an
over-the-counter market), and is not controlled,
directly or indirectly, by such a company,
‘‘(iii) is controlled, directly or indirectly—
‘‘(I) by 1 or more persons residing primarily in
the State in which the community newspaper is
published,
‘‘(II) for not less than 30 years by individuals
who are members of the same family,
‘‘(III) by a trust created or organized in the
State in which the community newspaper is
published, the sole trustees of which are persons
described in subclause (I) or (II),
‘‘(IV) by an entity which is described in sec-
tion 501(c)(3) and exempt from taxation under
section 501(a), which is organized and operated
in the State in which the community newspaper
is published, and the primary purpose of which
is to benefit communities in such State, or
‘‘(V) by a combination of persons described in
subclause (I), (III), or (IV), and
‘‘(iv) does not control, directly or indirectly,
any newspaper in any other State.
‘‘(B) COMMUNITY NEWSPAPER.—The term ‘com-
munity newspaper’ means a newspaper which
primarily serves a metropolitan statistical area,
as determined by the Office of Management and
Budget, with a population of not less than
100,000.
‘‘(C) CONTROL.—A person shall be treated as
controlled by another person if such other per-
son possesses, directly or indirectly, the power
to direct or cause the direction and management
of such person (including the power to elect a
majority of the members of the board of directors
of such person) through the ownership of voting
securities.
‘‘(5) CONTROLLED GROUP.—For purposes of
this subsection, the term ‘controlled group’
means all persons treated as a single employer
under subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section
414 as of the date of the enactment of this sub-
section.’’.
(b) AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT
INCOME SECURITY ACT OF 1974.—Section 303 of
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1083) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(m) SPECIAL RULES FOR COMMUNITY NEWS-
PAPER PLANS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The plan sponsor of a com-
munity newspaper plan under which no partici-
pant has had the participant’s accrued benefit
increased (whether because of service or com-
pensation) after December 31, 2017, may elect to
have the alternative standards described in
paragraph (3) apply to such plan, and any plan
sponsored by any member of the same controlled
group.
‘‘(2) ELECTION.—An election under paragraph
(1) shall be made at such time and in such man-
ner as prescribed by the Secretary of the Treas-
ury. Such election, once made with respect to a
plan year, shall apply to all subsequent plan
years unless revoked with the consent of the
Secretary of the Treasury.
‘‘(3) ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM FUNDING STAND-
ARDS.—The alternative standards described in
this paragraph are the following:
‘‘(A) INTEREST RATES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subsection
(h)(2)(C) and except as provided in clause (ii),
the first, second, and third segment rates in ef-
fect for any month for purposes of this section
shall be 8 percent.
‘‘(ii) NEW BENEFIT ACCRUALS.—Notwith-
standing subsection (h)(2), for purposes of deter-
mining the funding target and normal cost of a
plan for any plan year, the present value of any
benefits accrued or earned under the plan for a
plan year with respect to which an election
under paragraph (1) is in effect shall be deter-
mined on the basis of the U.S. Treasury obliga-
tion yield curve for the day that is the valuation
date of such plan for such plan year.
‘‘(iii) U.S. TREASURY OBLIGATION YIELD
CURVE.—For purposes of this subsection, the
term ‘U.S. Treasury obligation yield curve’
means, with respect to any day, a yield curve
which shall be prescribed by the Secretary of the
Treasury for such day on interest-bearing obli-
gations of the United States.
‘‘(B) SHORTFALL AMORTIZATION BASE.—
‘‘(i) PREVIOUS SHORTFALL AMORTIZATION
BASES.—The shortfall amortization bases deter-
mined under subsection (c)(3) for all plan years
preceding the first plan year to which the elec-
tion under paragraph (1) applies (and all short-
fall amortization installments determined with
respect to such bases) shall be reduced to zero
under rules similar to the rules of subsection
(c)(6).
‘‘(ii) NEW SHORTFALL AMORTIZATION BASE.—
Notwithstanding subsection (c)(3), the shortfall
amortization base for the first plan year to
which the election under paragraph (1) applies
shall be the funding shortfall of such plan for
such plan year (determined using the interest
rates as modified under subparagraph (A)).
‘‘(C) DETERMINATION OF SHORTFALL AMORTI-
ZATION INSTALLMENTS.—
‘‘(i) 30-YEAR PERIOD.—Subparagraphs (A) and
(B) of subsection (c)(2) shall be applied by sub-
stituting ‘30-plan-year’ for ‘7-plan-year’ each
place it appears.
‘‘(ii) NO SPECIAL ELECTION.—The election
under subparagraph (D) of subsection (c)(2)
shall not apply to any plan year to which the
election under paragraph (1) applies.
‘‘(D) EXEMPTION FROM AT-RISK TREATMENT.—
Subsection (i) shall not apply.
‘‘(4) COMMUNITY NEWSPAPER PLAN.—For pur-
poses of this subsection—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘community
newspaper plan’ means a plan to which this sec-
tion applies maintained by an employer which,
as of December 31, 2017—
‘‘(i) publishes and distributes daily, either
electronically or in printed form—
‘‘(I) a community newspaper, or
‘‘(II) 1 or more community newspapers in the
same State,
‘‘(ii) is not a company the stock of which is
publicly traded (on a stock exchange or in an
over-the-counter market), and is not controlled,
directly or indirectly, by such a company,
‘‘(iii) is controlled, directly or indirectly—
‘‘(I) by 1 or more persons residing primarily in
the State in which the community newspaper is
published,
‘‘(II) for not less than 30 years by individuals
who are members of the same family,
‘‘(III) by a trust created or organized in the
State in which the community newspaper is
published, the sole trustees of which are persons
described in subclause (I) or (II),
‘‘(IV) by an entity which is described in sec-
tion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 and exempt from taxation under section
501(a) of such Code, which is organized and op-
erated in the State in which the community
newspaper is published, and the primary pur-
pose of which is to benefit communities in such
State, or
‘‘(V) by a combination of persons described in
subclause (I), (III), or (IV), and
‘‘(iv) does not control, directly or indirectly,
any newspaper in any other State.
‘‘(B) COMMUNITY NEWSPAPER.—The term ‘com-
munity newspaper’ means a newspaper which
primarily serves a metropolitan statistical area,
as determined by the Office of Management and
Budget, with a population of not less than
100,000.
‘‘(C) CONTROL.—A person shall be treated as
controlled by another person if such other per-
son possesses, directly or indirectly, the power
to direct or cause the direction and management
of such person (including the power to elect a
majority of the members of the board of directors
of such person) through the ownership of voting
securities.
‘‘(5) CONTROLLED GROUP.—For purposes of
this subsection, the term ‘controlled group’
means all persons treated as a single employer
under subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section
414 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as of
the date of the enactment of this subsection.
‘‘(6) EFFECT ON PREMIUM RATE CALCULA-
TION.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
law or any regulation issued by the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation, in the case of a
plan for which an election is made to apply the
alternative standards described in paragraph
(3), the additional premium under section
4006(a)(3)(E) shall be determined as if such elec-
tion had not been made.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to plan years ending
after December 31, 2017.
SEC. 116. TREATING EXCLUDED DIFFICULTY OF
CARE PAYMENTS AS COMPENSATION
FOR DETERMINING RETIREMENT
CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS.
(a) INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 408(o) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(5) SPECIAL RULE FOR DIFFICULTY OF CARE
PAYMENTS EXCLUDED FROM GROSS INCOME.—In
the case of an individual who for a taxable year
excludes from gross income under section 131 a
qualified foster care payment which is a dif-
ficulty of care payment, if—
‘‘(A) the deductible amount in effect for the
taxable year under subsection (b), exceeds
‘‘(B) the amount of compensation includible
in the individual’s gross income for the taxable
year,
the individual may elect to increase the non-
deductible limit under paragraph (2) for the tax-
able year by an amount equal to the lesser of
such excess or the amount so excluded.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this subsection shall apply to contributions
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b) DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 415(c) of such Code
is amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(8) SPECIAL RULE FOR DIFFICULTY OF CARE
PAYMENTS EXCLUDED FROM GROSS INCOME.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of paragraph
(1)(B), in the case of an individual who for a
taxable year excludes from gross income under
section 131 a qualified foster care payment
which is a difficulty of care payment, the par-
ticipant’s compensation, or earned income, as
the case may be, shall be increased by the
amount so excluded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.001 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4131
May 23, 2019
‘‘(B) CONTRIBUTIONS ALLOCABLE TO DIF-
FICULTY OF CARE PAYMENTS TREATED AS AFTER-
TAX.—Any contribution by the participant
which is allowable due to such increase—
‘‘(i) shall be treated for purposes of this title
as investment in the contract, and
‘‘(ii) shall not cause a plan (and any arrange-
ment which is part of such plan) to be treated
as failing to meet any requirements of this chap-
ter solely by reason of allowing any such con-
tributions.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by this subsection shall apply to plan years be-
ginning after December 31, 2015.
TITLE II—ADMINISTRATIVE
IMPROVEMENTS
SEC. 201. PLAN ADOPTED BY FILING DUE DATE
FOR YEAR MAY BE TREATED AS IN
EFFECT AS OF CLOSE OF YEAR.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (b) of section 401
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘RETROACTIVE CHANGES IN
PLAN.—A stock bonus’’ and inserting ‘‘PLAN
AMENDMENTS.—
‘‘(1) CERTAIN RETROACTIVE CHANGES IN
PLAN.—A stock bonus’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) ADOPTION OF PLAN.—If an employer
adopts a stock bonus, pension, profit-sharing, or
annuity plan after the close of a taxable year
but before the time prescribed by law for filing
the return of the employer for the taxable year
(including extensions thereof), the employer
may elect to treat the plan as having been
adopted as of the last day of the taxable year.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to plans adopted for
taxable years beginning after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 202. COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT FOR
GROUP OF PLANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury and the Secretary of Labor shall, in co-
operation, modify the returns required under
section 6058 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 and the reports required by section 104 of
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1024) so that all members of a
group of plans described in subsection (c) may
file a single aggregated annual return or report
satisfying the requirements of both such sec-
tions.
(b) ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS.—In de-
veloping the consolidated return or report under
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury
and the Secretary of Labor may require such re-
turn or report to include any information re-
garding each plan in the group as such Secre-
taries determine is necessary or appropriate for
the enforcement and administration of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and
shall require such information as will enable a
participant in a plan to identify any aggregated
return or report filed with respect to the plan.
(c) PLANS DESCRIBED.—A group of plans is de-
scribed in this subsection if all plans in the
group—
(1) are individual account plans or defined
contribution plans (as defined in section 3(34) of
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 (29 U.S.C. 1002(34)) or in section 414(i) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986);
(2) have—
(A) the same trustee (as described in section
403(a) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1103(a)));
(B) the same one or more named fiduciaries
(as described in section 402(a) of such Act (29
U.S.C. 1102(a)));
(C) the same administrator (as defined in sec-
tion 3(16)(A) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1002(16)(A)))
and plan administrator (as defined in section
414(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986);
and
(D) plan years beginning on the same date;
and
(3) provide the same investments or investment
options to participants and beneficiaries.
A plan not subject to title I of the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 shall be
treated as meeting the requirements of para-
graph (2) as part of a group of plans if the same
person that performs each of the functions de-
scribed in such paragraph, as applicable, for all
other plans in such group performs each of such
functions for such plan.
(d) CLARIFICATION RELATING TO ELECTRONIC
FILING OF RETURNS FOR DEFERRED COMPENSA-
TION PLANS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 6011(e) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(6) APPLICATION OF NUMERICAL LIMITATION
TO RETURNS RELATING TO DEFERRED COMPENSA-
TION PLANS.—For purposes of applying the nu-
merical limitation under paragraph (2)(A) to
any return required under section 6058, informa-
tion regarding each plan for which information
is provided on such return shall be treated as a
separate return.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by paragraph (1) shall apply to returns required
to be filed with respect to plan years beginning
after December 31, 2019.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The modification re-
quired by subsection (a) shall be implemented
not later than January 1, 2022, and shall apply
to returns and reports for plan years beginning
after December 31, 2021.
SEC. 203. DISCLOSURE REGARDING LIFETIME IN-
COME.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (B) of section
105(a)(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Se-
curity Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1025(a)(2)) is
amended—
(1) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
(2) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘diversification.’’
and inserting ‘‘diversification, and’’; and
(3) by inserting at the end the following:
‘‘(iii) the lifetime income disclosure described
in subparagraph (D)(i).
In the case of pension benefit statements de-
scribed in clause (i) of paragraph (1)(A), a life-
time income disclosure under clause (iii) of this
subparagraph shall be required to be included in
only one pension benefit statement during any
one 12-month period.’’.
(b) LIFETIME INCOME.—Paragraph (2) of sec-
tion 105(a) of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1025(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new subparagraph:
‘‘(D) LIFETIME INCOME DISCLOSURE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(I) DISCLOSURE.—A lifetime income disclo-
sure shall set forth the lifetime income stream
equivalent of the total benefits accrued with re-
spect to the participant or beneficiary.
‘‘(II) LIFETIME INCOME STREAM EQUIVALENT
OF THE TOTAL BENEFITS ACCRUED.—For purposes
of this subparagraph, the term ‘lifetime income
stream equivalent of the total benefits accrued’
means the amount of monthly payments the
participant or beneficiary would receive if the
total accrued benefits of such participant or
beneficiary were used to provide lifetime income
streams described in subclause (III), based on
assumptions specified in rules prescribed by the
Secretary.
‘‘(III) LIFETIME INCOME STREAMS.—The life-
time income streams described in this subclause
are a qualified joint and survivor annuity (as
defined in section 205(d)), based on assumptions
specified in rules prescribed by the Secretary,
including the assumption that the participant or
beneficiary has a spouse of equal age, and a
single life annuity. Such lifetime income streams
may have a term certain or other features to the
extent permitted under rules prescribed by the
Secretary.
‘‘(ii) MODEL DISCLOSURE.—Not later than 1
year after the date of the enactment of the Set-
ting Every Community Up for Retirement En-
hancement Act of 2019, the Secretary shall issue
a model lifetime income disclosure, written in a
manner so as to be understood by the average
plan participant, which—
‘‘(I) explains that the lifetime income stream
equivalent is only provided as an illustration;
‘‘(II) explains that the actual payments under
the lifetime income stream described in clause
(i)(III) which may be purchased with the total
benefits accrued will depend on numerous fac-
tors and may vary substantially from the life-
time income stream equivalent in the disclosures;
‘‘(III) explains the assumptions upon which
the lifetime income stream equivalent was deter-
mined; and
‘‘(IV) provides such other similar explanations
as the Secretary considers appropriate.
‘‘(iii) ASSUMPTIONS AND RULES.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of the enactment of
the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement
Enhancement Act of 2019, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(I) prescribe assumptions which administra-
tors of individual account plans may use in con-
verting total accrued benefits into lifetime in-
come stream equivalents for purposes of this
subparagraph; and
‘‘(II) issue interim final rules under clause (i).
In prescribing assumptions under subclause (I),
the Secretary may prescribe a single set of spe-
cific assumptions (in which case the Secretary
may issue tables or factors which facilitate such
conversions), or ranges of permissible assump-
tions. To the extent that an accrued benefit is or
may be invested in a lifetime income stream de-
scribed in clause (i)(III), the assumptions pre-
scribed under subclause (I) shall, to the extent
appropriate, permit administrators of individual
account plans to use the amounts payable under
such lifetime income stream as a lifetime income
stream equivalent.
‘‘(iv) LIMITATION ON LIABILITY.—No plan fidu-
ciary, plan sponsor, or other person shall have
any liability under this title solely by reason of
the provision of lifetime income stream equiva-
lents which are derived in accordance with the
assumptions and rules described in clause (iii)
and which include the explanations contained
in the model lifetime income disclosure described
in clause (ii). This clause shall apply without
regard to whether the provision of such lifetime
income stream equivalent is required by sub-
paragraph (B)(iii).
‘‘(v) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The requirement in
subparagraph (B)(iii) shall apply to pension
benefit statements furnished more than 12
months after the latest of the issuance by the
Secretary of—
‘‘(I) interim final rules under clause (i);
‘‘(II) the model disclosure under clause (ii); or
‘‘(III) the assumptions under clause (iii).’’.
SEC. 204. FIDUCIARY SAFE HARBOR FOR SELEC-
TION OF LIFETIME INCOME PRO-
VIDER.
Section 404 of the Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1104) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) SAFE HARBOR FOR ANNUITY SELECTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to the selec-
tion of an insurer for a guaranteed retirement
income contract, the requirements of subsection
(a)(1)(B) will be deemed to be satisfied if a fidu-
ciary—
‘‘(A) engages in an objective, thorough, and
analytical search for the purpose of identifying
insurers from which to purchase such contracts;
‘‘(B) with respect to each insurer identified
under subparagraph (A)—
‘‘(i) considers the financial capability of such
insurer to satisfy its obligations under the guar-
anteed retirement income contract; and
‘‘(ii) considers the cost (including fees and
commissions) of the guaranteed retirement in-
come contract offered by the insurer in relation
to the benefits and product features of the con-
tract and administrative services to be provided
under such contract; and
‘‘(C) on the basis of such consideration, con-
cludes that—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.001 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4132 May 23, 2019
‘‘(i) at the time of the selection, the insurer is
financially capable of satisfying its obligations
under the guaranteed retirement income con-
tract; and
‘‘(ii) the relative cost of the selected guaran-
teed retirement income contract as described in
subparagraph (B)(ii) is reasonable.
‘‘(2) FINANCIAL CAPABILITY OF THE INSURER.—
A fiduciary will be deemed to satisfy the re-
quirements of paragraphs (1)(B)(i) and (1)(C)(i)
if—
‘‘(A) the fiduciary obtains written representa-
tions from the insurer that—
‘‘(i) the insurer is licensed to offer guaranteed
retirement income contracts;
‘‘(ii) the insurer, at the time of selection and
for each of the immediately preceding 7 plan
years—
‘‘(I) operates under a certificate of authority
from the insurance commissioner of its domi-
ciliary State which has not been revoked or sus-
pended;
‘‘(II) has filed audited financial statements in
accordance with the laws of its domiciliary
State under applicable statutory accounting
principles;
‘‘(III) maintains (and has maintained) re-
serves which satisfies all the statutory require-
ments of all States where the insurer does busi-
ness; and
‘‘(IV) is not operating under an order of su-
pervision, rehabilitation, or liquidation;
‘‘(iii) the insurer undergoes, at least every 5
years, a financial examination (within the
meaning of the law of its domiciliary State) by
the insurance commissioner of the domiciliary
State (or representative, designee, or other party
approved by such commissioner); and
‘‘(iv) the insurer will notify the fiduciary of
any change in circumstances occurring after the
provision of the representations in clauses (i),
(ii), and (iii) which would preclude the insurer
from making such representations at the time of
issuance of the guaranteed retirement income
contract; and
‘‘(B) after receiving such representations and
as of the time of selection, the fiduciary has not
received any notice described in subparagraph
(A)(iv) and is in possession of no other informa-
tion which would cause the fiduciary to ques-
tion the representations provided.
‘‘(3) NO REQUIREMENT TO SELECT LOWEST
COST.—Nothing in this subsection shall be con-
strued to require a fiduciary to select the lowest
cost contract. A fiduciary may consider the
value of a contract, including features and ben-
efits of the contract and attributes of the insurer
(including, without limitation, the insurer’s fi-
nancial strength) in conjunction with the cost
of the contract.
‘‘(4) TIME OF SELECTION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sub-
section, the time of selection is—
‘‘(i) the time that the insurer and the contract
are selected for distribution of benefits to a spe-
cific participant or beneficiary; or
‘‘(ii) if the fiduciary periodically reviews the
continuing appropriateness of the conclusion
described in paragraph (1)(C) with respect to a
selected insurer, taking into account the consid-
erations described in such paragraph, the time
that the insurer and the contract are selected to
provide benefits at future dates to participants
or beneficiaries under the plan.
Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be con-
strued to require the fiduciary to review the ap-
propriateness of a selection after the purchase
of a contract for a participant or beneficiary.
‘‘(B) PERIODIC REVIEW.—A fiduciary will be
deemed to have conducted the periodic review
described in subparagraph (A)(ii) if the fidu-
ciary obtains the written representations de-
scribed in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of paragraph
(2)(A) from the insurer on an annual basis, un-
less the fiduciary receives any notice described
in paragraph (2)(A)(iv) or otherwise becomes
aware of facts that would cause the fiduciary to
question such representations.
‘‘(5) LIMITED LIABILITY.—A fiduciary which
satisfies the requirements of this subsection
shall not be liable following the distribution of
any benefit, or the investment by or on behalf of
a participant or beneficiary pursuant to the se-
lected guaranteed retirement income contract,
for any losses that may result to the participant
or beneficiary due to an insurer’s inability to
satisfy its financial obligations under the terms
of such contract.
‘‘(6) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sub-
section—
‘‘(A) INSURER.—The term ‘insurer’ means an
insurance company, insurance service, or insur-
ance organization, including affiliates of such
companies.
‘‘(B) GUARANTEED RETIREMENT INCOME CON-
TRACT.—The term ‘guaranteed retirement in-
come contract’ means an annuity contract for a
fixed term or a contract (or provision or feature
thereof) which provides guaranteed benefits an-
nually (or more frequently) for at least the re-
mainder of the life of the participant or the joint
lives of the participant and the participant’s
designated beneficiary as part of an individual
account plan.’’.
SEC. 205. MODIFICATION OF NONDISCRIMINA-
TION RULES TO PROTECT OLDER,
LONGER SERVICE PARTICIPANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 401 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (o) as sub-
section (p); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (n) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(o) SPECIAL RULES FOR APPLYING NON-
DISCRIMINATION RULES TO PROTECT OLDER,
LONGER SERVICE AND GRANDFATHERED PARTICI-
PANTS .—
‘‘(1) TESTING OF DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS WITH
CLOSED CLASSES OF PARTICIPANTS.—
‘‘(A) BENEFITS, RIGHTS, OR FEATURES PRO-
VIDED TO CLOSED CLASSES.—A defined benefit
plan which provides benefits, rights, or features
to a closed class of participants shall not fail to
satisfy the requirements of subsection (a)(4) by
reason of the composition of such closed class or
the benefits, rights, or features provided to such
closed class, if—
‘‘(i) for the plan year as of which the class
closes and the 2 succeeding plan years, such
benefits, rights, and features satisfy the require-
ments of subsection (a)(4) (without regard to
this subparagraph but taking into account the
rules of subparagraph (I)),
‘‘(ii) after the date as of which the class was
closed, any plan amendment which modifies the
closed class or the benefits, rights, and features
provided to such closed class does not discrimi-
nate significantly in favor of highly com-
pensated employees, and
‘‘(iii) the class was closed before April 5, 2017,
or the plan is described in subparagraph (C).
‘‘(B) AGGREGATE TESTING WITH DEFINED CON-
TRIBUTION PLANS PERMITTED ON A BENEFITS
BASIS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of determining
compliance with subsection (a)(4) and section
410(b), a defined benefit plan described in clause
(iii) may be aggregated and tested on a benefits
basis with 1 or more defined contribution plans,
including with the portion of 1 or more defined
contribution plans which—
‘‘(I) provides matching contributions (as de-
fined in subsection (m)(4)(A)),
‘‘(II) provides annuity contracts described in
section 403(b) which are purchased with match-
ing contributions or nonelective contributions,
or
‘‘(III) consists of an employee stock ownership
plan (within the meaning of section 4975(e)(7))
or a tax credit employee stock ownership plan
(within the meaning of section 409(a)).
‘‘(ii) SPECIAL RULES FOR MATCHING CONTRIBU-
TIONS.—For purposes of clause (i), if a defined
benefit plan is aggregated with a portion of a
defined contribution plan providing matching
contributions—
‘‘(I) such defined benefit plan must also be ag-
gregated with any portion of such defined con-
tribution plan which provides elective deferrals
described in subparagraph (A) or (C) of section
402(g)(3), and
‘‘(II) such matching contributions shall be
treated in the same manner as nonelective con-
tributions, including for purposes of applying
the rules of subsection (l).
‘‘(iii) PLANS DESCRIBED.—A defined benefit
plan is described in this clause if—
‘‘(I) the plan provides benefits to a closed
class of participants,
‘‘(II) for the plan year as of which the class
closes and the 2 succeeding plan years, the plan
satisfies the requirements of section 410(b) and
subsection (a)(4) (without regard to this sub-
paragraph but taking into account the rules of
subparagraph (I)),
‘‘(III) after the date as of which the class was
closed, any plan amendment which modifies the
closed class or the benefits provided to such
closed class does not discriminate significantly
in favor of highly compensated employees, and
‘‘(IV) the class was closed before April 5, 2017,
or the plan is described in subparagraph (C).
‘‘(C) PLANS DESCRIBED.—A plan is described
in this subparagraph if, taking into account
any predecessor plan—
‘‘(i) such plan has been in effect for at least
5 years as of the date the class is closed, and
‘‘(ii) during the 5-year period preceding the
date the class is closed, there has not been a
substantial increase in the coverage or value of
the benefits, rights, or features described in sub-
paragraph (A) or in the coverage or benefits
under the plan described in subparagraph
(B)(iii) (whichever is applicable).
‘‘(D) DETERMINATION OF SUBSTANTIAL IN-
CREASE FOR BENEFITS, RIGHTS, AND FEATURES.—
In applying subparagraph (C)(ii) for purposes of
subparagraph (A)(iii), a plan shall be treated as
having had a substantial increase in coverage or
value of the benefits, rights, or features de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) during the applica-
ble 5-year period only if, during such period—
‘‘(i) the number of participants covered by
such benefits, rights, or features on the date
such period ends is more than 50 percent greater
than the number of such participants on the
first day of the plan year in which such period
began, or
‘‘(ii) such benefits, rights, and features have
been modified by 1 or more plan amendments in
such a way that, as of the date the class is
closed, the value of such benefits, rights, and
features to the closed class as a whole is sub-
stantially greater than the value as of the first
day of such 5-year period, solely as a result of
such amendments.
‘‘(E) DETERMINATION OF SUBSTANTIAL IN-
CREASE FOR AGGREGATE TESTING ON BENEFITS
BASIS.—In applying subparagraph (C)(ii) for
purposes of subparagraph (B)(iii)(IV), a plan
shall be treated as having had a substantial in-
crease in coverage or benefits during the appli-
cable 5-year period only if, during such period—
‘‘(i) the number of participants benefitting
under the plan on the date such period ends is
more than 50 percent greater than the number of
such participants on the first day of the plan
year in which such period began, or
‘‘(ii) the average benefit provided to such par-
ticipants on the date such period ends is more
than 50 percent greater than the average benefit
provided on the first day of the plan year in
which such period began.
‘‘(F) CERTAIN EMPLOYEES DISREGARDED.—For
purposes of subparagraphs (D) and (E), any in-
crease in coverage or value or in coverage or
benefits, whichever is applicable, which is at-
tributable to such coverage and value or cov-
erage and benefits provided to employees—
‘‘(i) who became participants as a result of a
merger, acquisition, or similar event which oc-
curred during the 7-year period preceding the
date the class is closed, or
‘‘(ii) who became participants by reason of a
merger of the plan with another plan which had
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.001 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4133
May 23, 2019
been in effect for at least 5 years as of the date
of the merger,
shall be disregarded, except that clause (ii) shall
apply for purposes of subparagraph (D) only if,
under the merger, the benefits, rights, or fea-
tures under 1 plan are conformed to the bene-
fits, rights, or features of the other plan pro-
spectively.
‘‘(G) RULES RELATING TO AVERAGE BENEFIT.—
For purposes of subparagraph (E)—
‘‘(i) the average benefit provided to partici-
pants under the plan will be treated as having
remained the same between the 2 dates described
in subparagraph (E)(ii) if the benefit formula
applicable to such participants has not changed
between such dates, and
‘‘(ii) if the benefit formula applicable to 1 or
more participants under the plan has changed
between such 2 dates, then the average benefit
under the plan shall be considered to have in-
creased by more than 50 percent only if—
‘‘(I) the total amount determined under sec-
tion 430(b)(1)(A)(i) for all participants benefit-
ting under the plan for the plan year in which
the 5-year period described in subparagraph (E)
ends, exceeds
‘‘(II) the total amount determined under sec-
tion 430(b)(1)(A)(i) for all such participants for
such plan year, by using the benefit formula in
effect for each such participant for the first
plan year in such 5-year period,
by more than 50 percent. In the case of a CSEC
plan (as defined in section 414(y)), the normal
cost of the plan (as determined under section
433(j)(1)(B)) shall be used in lieu of the amount
determined under section 430(b)(1)(A)(i).
‘‘(H) TREATMENT AS SINGLE PLAN.—For pur-
poses of subparagraphs (E) and (G), a plan de-
scribed in section 413(c) shall be treated as a
single plan rather than as separate plans main-
tained by each employer in the plan.
‘‘(I) SPECIAL RULES.—For purposes of sub-
paragraphs (A)(i) and (B)(iii)(II), the following
rules shall apply:
‘‘(i) In applying section 410(b)(6)(C), the clos-
ing of the class of participants shall not be
treated as a significant change in coverage
under section 410(b)(6)(C)(i)(II).
‘‘(ii) 2 or more plans shall not fail to be eligi-
ble to be aggregated and treated as a single plan
solely by reason of having different plan years.
‘‘(iii) Changes in the employee population
shall be disregarded to the extent attributable to
individuals who become employees or cease to be
employees, after the date the class is closed, by
reason of a merger, acquisition, divestiture, or
similar event.
‘‘(iv) Aggregation and all other testing meth-
odologies otherwise applicable under subsection
(a)(4) and section 410(b) may be taken into ac-
count.
The rule of clause (ii) shall also apply for pur-
poses of determining whether plans to which
subparagraph (B)(i) applies may be aggregated
and treated as 1 plan for purposes of deter-
mining whether such plans meet the require-
ments of subsection (a)(4) and section 410(b).
‘‘(J) SPUN-OFF PLANS.—For purposes of this
paragraph, if a portion of a defined benefit plan
described in subparagraph (A) or (B)(iii) is spun
off to another employer and the spun-off plan
continues to satisfy the requirements of—
‘‘(i) subparagraph (A)(i) or (B)(iii)(II), which-
ever is applicable, if the original plan was still
within the 3-year period described in such sub-
paragraph at the time of the spin off, and
‘‘(ii) subparagraph (A)(ii) or (B)(iii)(III),
whichever is applicable,
the treatment under subparagraph (A) or (B) of
the spun-off plan shall continue with respect to
such other employer.
‘‘(2) TESTING OF DEFINED CONTRIBUTION
PLANS.—
‘‘(A) TESTING ON A BENEFITS BASIS.—A defined
contribution plan shall be permitted to be tested
on a benefits basis if—
‘‘(i) such defined contribution plan provides
make-whole contributions to a closed class of
participants whose accruals under a defined
benefit plan have been reduced or eliminated,
‘‘(ii) for the plan year of the defined contribu-
tion plan as of which the class eligible to receive
such make-whole contributions closes and the 2
succeeding plan years, such closed class of par-
ticipants satisfies the requirements of section
410(b)(2)(A)(i) (determined by applying the rules
of paragraph (1)(I)),
‘‘(iii) after the date as of which the class was
closed, any plan amendment to the defined con-
tribution plan which modifies the closed class or
the allocations, benefits, rights, and features
provided to such closed class does not discrimi-
nate significantly in favor of highly com-
pensated employees, and
‘‘(iv) the class was closed before April 5, 2017,
or the defined benefit plan under clause (i) is
described in paragraph (1)(C) (as applied for
purposes of paragraph (1)(B)(iii)(IV)).
‘‘(B) AGGREGATION WITH PLANS INCLUDING
MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—With respect to 1 or more
defined contribution plans described in subpara-
graph (A), for purposes of determining compli-
ance with subsection (a)(4) and section 410(b),
the portion of such plans which provides make-
whole contributions or other nonelective con-
tributions may be aggregated and tested on a
benefits basis with the portion of 1 or more other
defined contribution plans which—
‘‘(I) provides matching contributions (as de-
fined in subsection (m)(4)(A)),
‘‘(II) provides annuity contracts described in
section 403(b) which are purchased with match-
ing contributions or nonelective contributions,
or
‘‘(III) consists of an employee stock ownership
plan (within the meaning of section 4975(e)(7))
or a tax credit employee stock ownership plan
(within the meaning of section 409(a)).
‘‘(ii) SPECIAL RULES FOR MATCHING CONTRIBU-
TIONS.—Rules similar to the rules of paragraph
(1)(B)(ii) shall apply for purposes of clause (i).
‘‘(C) SPECIAL RULES FOR TESTING DEFINED
CONTRIBUTION PLAN FEATURES PROVIDING
MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS TO CERTAIN OLDER,
LONGER SERVICE PARTICIPANTS.—In the case of a
defined contribution plan which provides bene-
fits, rights, or features to a closed class of par-
ticipants whose accruals under a defined benefit
plan have been reduced or eliminated, the plan
shall not fail to satisfy the requirements of sub-
section (a)(4) solely by reason of the composition
of the closed class or the benefits, rights, or fea-
tures provided to such closed class if the defined
contribution plan and defined benefit plan oth-
erwise meet the requirements of subparagraph
(A) but for the fact that the make-whole con-
tributions under the defined contribution plan
are made in whole or in part through matching
contributions.
‘‘(D) SPUN-OFF PLANS.—For purposes of this
paragraph, if a portion of a defined contribu-
tion plan described in subparagraph (A) or (C)
is spun off to another employer, the treatment
under subparagraph (A) or (C) of the spun-off
plan shall continue with respect to the other em-
ployer if such plan continues to comply with the
requirements of clauses (ii) (if the original plan
was still within the 3-year period described in
such clause at the time of the spin off) and (iii)
of subparagraph (A), as determined for purposes
of subparagraph (A) or (C), whichever is appli-
cable.
‘‘(3) DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL RULE.—For
purposes of this subsection—
‘‘(A) MAKE-WHOLE CONTRIBUTIONS.—Except as
otherwise provided in paragraph (2)(C), the term
‘make-whole contributions’ means nonelective
allocations for each employee in the class which
are reasonably calculated, in a consistent man-
ner, to replace some or all of the retirement ben-
efits which the employee would have received
under the defined benefit plan and any other
plan or qualified cash or deferred arrangement
under subsection (k)(2) if no change had been
made to such defined benefit plan and such
other plan or arrangement. For purposes of the
preceding sentence, consistency shall not be re-
quired with respect to employees who were sub-
ject to different benefit formulas under the de-
fined benefit plan.
‘‘(B) REFERENCES TO CLOSED CLASS OF PAR-
TICIPANTS.—References to a closed class of par-
ticipants and similar references to a closed class
shall include arrangements under which 1 or
more classes of participants are closed, except
that 1 or more classes of participants closed on
different dates shall not be aggregated for pur-
poses of determining the date any such class
was closed.
‘‘(C) HIGHLY COMPENSATED EMPLOYEE.—The
term ‘highly compensated employee’ has the
meaning given such term in section 414(q).’’.
(b) PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENTS.—Para-
graph (26) of section 401(a) of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the
end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(I) PROTECTED PARTICIPANTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A plan shall be deemed to
satisfy the requirements of subparagraph (A)
if—
‘‘(I) the plan is amended—
‘‘(aa) to cease all benefit accruals, or
‘‘(bb) to provide future benefit accruals only
to a closed class of participants,
‘‘(II) the plan satisfies subparagraph (A)
(without regard to this subparagraph) as of the
effective date of the amendment, and
‘‘(III) the amendment was adopted before
April 5, 2017, or the plan is described in clause
(ii).
‘‘(ii) PLANS DESCRIBED.—A plan is described in
this clause if the plan would be described in
subsection (o)(1)(C), as applied for purposes of
subsection (o)(1)(B)(iii)(IV) and by treating the
effective date of the amendment as the date the
class was closed for purposes of subsection
(o)(1)(C).
‘‘(iii) SPECIAL RULES.—For purposes of clause
(i)(II), in applying section 410(b)(6)(C), the
amendments described in clause (i) shall not be
treated as a significant change in coverage
under section 410(b)(6)(C)(i)(II).
‘‘(iv) SPUN-OFF PLANS.—For purposes of this
subparagraph, if a portion of a plan described
in clause (i) is spun off to another employer, the
treatment under clause (i) of the spun-off plan
shall continue with respect to the other em-
ployer.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in para-
graph (2), the amendments made by this section
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of
this Act, without regard to whether any plan
modifications referred to in such amendments
are adopted or effective before, on, or after such
date of enactment.
(2) SPECIAL RULES.—
(A) ELECTION OF EARLIER APPLICATION.—At
the election of the plan sponsor, the amend-
ments made by this section shall apply to plan
years beginning after December 31, 2013.
(B) CLOSED CLASSES OF PARTICIPANTS.—For
purposes of paragraphs (1)(A)(iii),
(1)(B)(iii)(IV), and (2)(A)(iv) of section 401(o) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as added by
this section), a closed class of participants shall
be treated as being closed before April 5, 2017, if
the plan sponsor’s intention to create such
closed class is reflected in formal written docu-
ments and communicated to participants before
such date.
(C) CERTAIN POST-ENACTMENT PLAN AMEND-
MENTS.—A plan shall not be treated as failing to
be eligible for the application of section
401(o)(1)(A), 401(o)(1)(B)(iii), or 401(a)(26) of
such Code (as added by this section) to such
plan solely because in the case of—
(i) such section 401(o)(1)(A), the plan was
amended before the date of the enactment of
this Act to eliminate 1 or more benefits, rights,
or features, and is further amended after such
date of enactment to provide such previously
eliminated benefits, rights, or features to a
closed class of participants, or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.001 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4134 May 23, 2019
(ii) such section 401(o)(1)(B)(iii) or section
401(a)(26), the plan was amended before the
date of the enactment of this Act to cease all
benefit accruals, and is further amended after
such date of enactment to provide benefit accru-
als to a closed class of participants.
Any such section shall only apply if the plan
otherwise meets the requirements of such section
and in applying such section, the date the class
of participants is closed shall be the effective
date of the later amendment.
SEC. 206. MODIFICATION OF PBGC PREMIUMS
FOR CSEC PLANS.
(a) FLAT RATE PREMIUM.—Subparagraph (A)
of section 4006(a)(3) of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C.
1306(a)(3)) is amended—
(1) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘plan,’’ and in-
serting ‘‘plan other than a CSEC plan (as de-
fined in section 210(f)(1))’’;
(2) in clause (v), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end;
(3) in clause (vi), by striking the period at the
end and inserting ‘‘, or’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(vii) in the case of a CSEC plan (as defined
in section 210(f)(1)), for plan years beginning
after December 31, 2018, for each individual who
is a participant in such plan during the plan
year an amount equal to the sum of—
‘‘(I) the additional premium (if any) deter-
mined under subparagraph (E), and
‘‘(II) $19.’’.
(b) VARIABLE RATE PREMIUM.—
(1) UNFUNDED VESTED BENEFITS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (E) of section
4006(a)(3) of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1306(a)(3)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new clause:
‘‘(v) For purposes of clause (ii), in the case of
a CSEC plan (as defined in section 210(f)(1)),
the term ‘unfunded vested benefits’ means, for
plan years beginning after December 31, 2018,
the excess (if any) of—
‘‘(I) the funding liability of the plan as deter-
mined under section 306(j)(5)(C) for the plan
year by only taking into account vested bene-
fits, over
‘‘(II) the fair market value of plan assets for
the plan year which are held by the plan on the
valuation date.’’.
(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Clause (iii) of
section 4006(a)(3)(E) of such Act (29 U.S.C.
1306(a)(3)(E)) is amended by striking ‘‘For pur-
poses’’ and inserting ‘‘Except as provided in
clause (v), for purposes’’.
(2) APPLICABLE DOLLAR AMOUNT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (8) of section
4006(a) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1306(a)) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following new sub-
paragraph:
‘‘(E) CSEC PLANS.—In the case of a CSEC
plan (as defined in section 210(f)(1)), the appli-
cable dollar amount shall be $9.’’.
(B) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subparagraph
(A) of section 4006(a)(8) of such Act (29 U.S.C.
1306(a)(8)) is amended by striking ‘‘(B) and (C)’’
and inserting ‘‘(B), (C), and (E)’’.
TITLE III—OTHER BENEFITS
SEC. 301. BENEFITS PROVIDED TO VOLUNTEER
FIREFIGHTERS AND EMERGENCY
MEDICAL RESPONDERS.
(a) INCREASE IN DOLLAR LIMITATION ON
QUALIFIED PAYMENTS.—Subparagraph (B) of
section 139B(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 is amended by striking ‘‘$30’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘$50’’.
(b) EXTENSION.—Section 139B(d) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
‘‘beginning after December 31, 2010.’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘beginning—
‘‘(1) after December 31, 2010, and before Janu-
ary 1, 2020, or
‘‘(2) after December 31, 2020.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to taxable years be-
ginning after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 302. EXPANSION OF SECTION 529 PLANS.
(a) DISTRIBUTIONS FOR CERTAIN EXPENSES AS-
SOCIATED WITH REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIP
PROGRAMS.—Section 529(c) of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the
end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(8) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN EXPENSES ASSOCI-
ATED WITH REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIP PRO-
GRAMS.—Any reference in this subsection to the
term ‘qualified higher education expense’ shall
include a reference to expenses for fees, books,
supplies, and equipment required for the partici-
pation of a designated beneficiary in an appren-
ticeship program registered and certified with
the Secretary of Labor under section 1 of the
National Apprenticeship Act (29 U.S.C. 50).’’
(c) DISTRIBUTIONS FOR QUALIFIED EDUCATION
LOAN REPAYMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 529(c) of such Code,
as amended by subsection (a), is amended by
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(9) TREATMENT OF QUALIFIED EDUCATION
LOAN REPAYMENTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Any reference in this sub-
section to the term ‘qualified higher education
expense’ shall include a reference to amounts
paid as principal or interest on any qualified
education loan (as defined in section 221(d)) of
the designated beneficiary or a sibling of the
designated beneficiary.
‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—The amount of distribu-
tions treated as a qualified higher education ex-
pense under this paragraph with respect to the
loans of any individual shall not exceed $10,000
(reduced by the amount of distributions so treat-
ed for all prior taxable years).
‘‘(C) SPECIAL RULES FOR SIBLINGS OF THE DES-
IGNATED BENEFICIARY.—
‘‘(i) SEPARATE ACCOUNTING.—For purposes of
subparagraph (B) and subsection (d), amounts
treated as a qualified higher education expense
with respect to the loans of a sibling of the des-
ignated beneficiary shall be taken into account
with respect to such sibling and not with respect
to such designated beneficiary.
‘‘(ii) SIBLING DEFINED.—For purposes of this
paragraph, the term ‘sibling’ means an indi-
vidual who bears a relationship to the des-
ignated beneficiary which is described in section
152(d)(2)(B).’’.
(2) COORDINATION WITH DEDUCTION FOR STU-
DENT LOAN INTEREST.—Section 221(e)(1) of such
Code is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing: ‘‘The deduction otherwise allowable
under subsection (a) (prior to the application of
subsection (b)) to the taxpayer for any taxable
year shall be reduced (but not below zero) by so
much of the distributions treated as a qualified
higher education expense under section 529(c)(9)
with respect to loans of the taxpayer as would
be includible in gross income under section
529(c)(3)(A) for such taxable year but for such
treatment.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATES.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to distributions made
after December 31, 2018.
TITLE IV—REVENUE PROVISIONS
SEC. 401. MODIFICATION OF REQUIRED DIS-
TRIBUTION RULES FOR DESIGNATED
BENEFICIARIES.
(a) MODIFICATION OF RULES WHERE EM-
PLOYEE DIES BEFORE ENTIRE DISTRIBUTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 401(a)(9) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new subparagraph
‘‘(H) SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN DEFINED
CONTRIBUTION PLANS.—In the case of a defined
contribution plan, if an employee dies before the
distribution of the employee’s entire interest—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except in the case of a ben-
eficiary who is not a designated beneficiary,
subparagraph (B)(ii)—
‘‘(I) shall be applied by substituting ‘10 years’
for ‘5 years’, and
‘‘(II) shall apply whether or not distributions
of the employee’s interests have begun in ac-
cordance with subparagraph (A).
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION ONLY FOR ELIGIBLE DES-
IGNATED BENEFICIARIES.—Subparagraph (B)(iii)
shall apply only in the case of an eligible des-
ignated beneficiary.
‘‘(iii) RULES UPON DEATH OF ELIGIBLE DES-
IGNATED BENEFICIARY.—If an eligible designated
beneficiary dies before the portion of the em-
ployee’s interest to which this subparagraph ap-
plies is entirely distributed, the exception under
clause (iii) shall not apply to any beneficiary of
such eligible designated beneficiary and the re-
mainder of such portion shall be distributed
within 10 years after the death of such eligible
designated beneficiary.
‘‘(iv) APPLICATION TO CERTAIN ELIGIBLE RE-
TIREMENT PLANS.—For purposes of applying the
provisions of this subparagraph in determining
amounts required to be distributed pursuant to
this paragraph, all eligible retirement plans (as
defined in section 402(c)(8)(B), other than a de-
fined benefit plan described in clause (iv) or (v)
thereof or a qualified trust which is a part of a
defined benefit plan) shall be treated as a de-
fined contribution plan.’’.
(2) DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE DESIGNATED BENE-
FICIARY.—Section 401(a)(9)(E) of such Code is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(E) DEFINITIONS AND RULES RELATING TO
DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY.—For purposes of this
paragraph—
‘‘(i) DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY.—The term ‘des-
ignated beneficiary’ means any individual des-
ignated as a beneficiary by the employee.
‘‘(ii) ELIGIBLE DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY.—The
term ‘eligible designated beneficiary’ means,
with respect to any employee, any designated
beneficiary who is—
‘‘(I) the surviving spouse of the employee,
‘‘(II) subject to clause (iii), a child of the em-
ployee who has not reached majority (within
the meaning of subparagraph (F)),
‘‘(III) disabled (within the meaning of section
72(m)(7)),
‘‘(IV) a chronically ill individual (within the
meaning of section 7702B(c)(2), except that the
requirements of subparagraph (A)(i) thereof
shall only be treated as met if there is a certifi-
cation that, as of such date, the period of in-
ability described in such subparagraph with re-
spect to the individual is an indefinite one
which is reasonably expected to be lengthy in
nature), or
‘‘(V) an individual not described in any of the
preceding subclauses who is not more than 10
years younger than the employee.
‘‘(iii) SPECIAL RULE FOR CHILDREN.—Subject to
subparagraph (F), an individual described in
clause (ii)(II) shall cease to be an eligible des-
ignated beneficiary as of the date the individual
reaches majority and any remainder of the por-
tion of the individual’s interest to which sub-
paragraph (H)(ii) applies shall be distributed
within 10 years after such date.
‘‘(iv) TIME FOR DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBLE
DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY.—The determination
of whether a designated beneficiary is an eligi-
ble designated beneficiary shall be made as of
the date of death of the employee.’’.
(3) EFFECTIVE DATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in this
paragraph and paragraphs (4) and (5), the
amendments made by this subsection shall apply
to distributions with respect to employees who
die after December 31, 2019.
(B) COLLECTIVE BARGAINING EXCEPTION.—In
the case of a plan maintained pursuant to 1 or
more collective bargaining agreements between
employee representatives and 1 or more employ-
ers ratified before the date of enactment of this
Act, the amendments made by this subsection
shall apply to distributions with respect to em-
ployees who die in calendar years beginning
after the earlier of—
(i) the later of—
(I) the date on which the last of such collec-
tive bargaining agreements terminates (deter-
mined without regard to any extension thereof
agreed to on or after the date of the enactment
of this Act), or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:15 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.001 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4135
May 23, 2019
(II) December 31, 2019, or
(ii) December 31, 2021.
For purposes of clause (i)(I), any plan amend-
ment made pursuant to a collective bargaining
agreement relating to the plan which amends
the plan solely to conform to any requirement
added by this section shall not be treated as a
termination of such collective bargaining agree-
ment.
(C) GOVERNMENTAL PLANS.—In the case of a
governmental plan (as defined in section 414(d)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986), subpara-
graph (A) shall be applied by substituting ‘‘De-
cember 31, 2021’’ for ‘‘December 31, 2019’’.
(4) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN EXISTING ANNUITY
CONTRACTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by
this subsection shall not apply to a qualified an-
nuity which is a binding annuity contract in ef-
fect on the date of enactment of this Act and at
all times thereafter.
(B) QUALIFIED ANNUITY.—For purposes of this
paragraph, the term ‘‘qualified annuity’’ means,
with respect to an employee, an annuity—
(i) which is a commercial annuity (as defined
in section 3405(e)(6) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986);
(ii) under which the annuity payments are
made over the life of the employee or over the
joint lives of such employee and a designated
beneficiary (or over a period not extending be-
yond the life expectancy of such employee or the
joint life expectancy of such employee and a
designated beneficiary) in accordance with the
regulations described in section 401(a)(9)(A)(ii)
of such Code (as in effect before such amend-
ments) and which meets the other requirements
of section 401(a)(9) of such Code (as so in effect)
with respect to such payments; and
(iii) with respect to which—
(I) annuity payments to the employee have
begun before the date of enactment of this Act,
and the employee has made an irrevocable elec-
tion before such date as to the method and
amount of the annuity payments to the em-
ployee or any designated beneficiaries; or
(II) if subclause (I) does not apply, the em-
ployee has made an irrevocable election before
the date of enactment of this Act as to the meth-
od and amount of the annuity payments to the
employee or any designated beneficiaries.
(5) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN BENEFICIARIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If an employee dies before
the effective date, then, in applying the amend-
ments made by this subsection to such employ-
ee’s designated beneficiary who dies after such
date—
(i) such amendments shall apply to any bene-
ficiary of such designated beneficiary; and
(ii) the designated beneficiary shall be treated
as an eligible designated beneficiary for pur-
poses of applying section 401(a)(9)(H)(ii) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as in effect after
such amendments).
(B) EFFECTIVE DATE.—For purposes of this
paragraph, the term ‘‘effective date’’ means the
first day of the first calendar year to which the
amendments made by this subsection apply to a
plan with respect to employees dying on or after
such date.
(b) PROVISIONS RELATING TO PLAN AMEND-
MENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If this subsection applies to
any plan amendment—
(A) such plan shall be treated as being oper-
ated in accordance with the terms of the plan
during the period described in paragraph
(2)(B)(i); and
(B) except as provided by the Secretary of the
Treasury, such plan shall not fail to meet the
requirements of section 411(d)(6) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and section 204(g) of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 by reason of such amendment.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO WHICH SUBSECTION AP-
PLIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—This subsection shall apply
to any amendment to any plan or which is
made—
(i) pursuant to any amendment made by this
section or pursuant to any regulation issued by
the Secretary of the Treasury under this section
or such amendments; and
(ii) on or before the last day of the first plan
year beginning after December 31, 2021, or such
later date as the Secretary of the Treasury may
prescribe.
In the case of a governmental or collectively
bargained plan to which subparagraph (B) or
(C) of subsection (a)(4) applies, clause (ii) shall
be applied by substituting the date which is 2
years after the date otherwise applied under
such clause.
(B) CONDITIONS.—This subsection shall not
apply to any amendment unless—
(i) during the period—
(I) beginning on the date the legislative or
regulatory amendment described in paragraph
(1)(A) takes effect (or in the case of a plan
amendment not required by such legislative or
regulatory amendment, the effective date speci-
fied by the plan); and
(II) ending on the date described in subpara-
graph (A)(ii) (or, if earlier, the date the plan
amendment is adopted),
the plan is operated as if such plan amendment
were in effect; and
(ii) such plan amendment applies retroactively
for such period.
SEC. 402. INCREASE IN PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO
FILE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The second sentence of sub-
section (a) of section 6651 of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ‘‘$205’’
and inserting ‘‘$400’’.
(b) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—Section 6651(j)(1)
of such Code is amended by striking ‘‘$205’’ and
inserting ‘‘$400’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to returns the due
date for which (including extensions) is after
December 31, 2019.
SEC. 403. INCREASED PENALTIES FOR FAILURE
TO FILE RETIREMENT PLAN RE-
TURNS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (e) of section
6652 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘$25’’ and inserting ‘‘$250’’;
and
(2) by striking ‘‘$15,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$150,000’’.
(b) ANNUAL REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND
NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES.—Subsection (d) of
section 6652 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘$1’’ both places it appears in
paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting ‘‘$10’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘$5,000’’ in paragraph (1) and
inserting ‘‘$50,000’’; and
(3) by striking ‘‘$1,000’’ in paragraph (2) and
inserting ‘‘$10,000’’.
(c) FAILURE TO PROVIDE NOTICE.—Subsection
(h) of section 6652 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘$10’’ and inserting ‘‘$100’’;
and
(2) by striking ‘‘$5,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$50,000’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to returns, state-
ments, and notifications required to be filed,
and notices required to be provided, after De-
cember 31, 2019.
SEC. 404. INCREASE INFORMATION SHARING TO
ADMINISTER EXCISE TAXES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 6103(o) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(3) TAXES IMPOSED BY SECTION 4481.—Re-
turns and return information with respect to
taxes imposed by section 4481 shall be open to
inspection by or disclosure to officers and em-
ployees of United States Customs and Border
Protection of the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity whose official duties require such inspection
or disclosure for purposes of administering such
section.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Paragraph
(4) of section 6103(p) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by striking ‘‘or
(o)(1)(A)’’ each place it appears and inserting ‘‘,
(o)(1)(A), or (o)(3)’’.
TITLE V—TAX RELIEF FOR CERTAIN
CHILDREN
SEC. 501. MODIFICATION OF RULES RELATING TO
THE TAXATION OF UNEARNED IN-
COME OF CERTAIN CHILDREN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1(j) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
paragraph (4).
(b) COORDINATION WITH ALTERNATIVE MIN-
IMUM TAX.—Section 55(d)(4)(A) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
‘‘and’’ at the end of clause (i)(II), by striking
the period at the end of clause (ii)(III) and in-
serting ‘‘, and’’, and by adding at the end the
following new clause:
‘‘(iii) subsection (j) of section 59 shall not
apply.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided
in this subsection, the amendment made by sub-
section (a) shall apply to taxable years begin-
ning after December 31, 2018.
(2) COORDINATION WITH ALTERNATIVE MIN-
IMUM TAX.—The amendment made by subsection
(b) shall apply to taxable years beginning after
December 31, 2017.
(3) ELECTIVE RETROACTIVE APPLICATION.—In
the case of a taxpayer who elects the applica-
tion of this paragraph (at such time and in such
manner as the Secretary of the Treasury (or the
Secretary’s designee) may provide), the amend-
ment made by subsection (a) shall apply to tax-
able years beginning after December 31, 2017.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill,
as amended, shall be debatable for 1
hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Ways and
Means.
The gentleman from Massachusetts
(Mr. NEAL) and the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. BRADY) each will control 30
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Massachusetts.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
1994.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 1994, the Setting Every Commu-
nity Up for Retirement Enhancement
Act, or the SECURE Act. This is the
most substantive promotion of retire-
ment savings in the last 15 years, and
we all should be pleased that we are
part of it this morning.
One of my priorities since becoming
chairman of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee has been helping American
workers of all ages prepare for a finan-
cially secure retirement, so I am par-
ticularly pleased to be bringing this
legislation to the floor this morning.
I also am very proud of the fact that
I was able to collaborate with Ranking
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.001 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4136 May 23, 2019
Member KEVIN BRADY and our Repub-
lican colleagues in drafting this legis-
lation. Both Republicans and Demo-
crats have wins in this bill, and I would
like to thank Mr. BRADY this morning
for all of his hard work in helping me
to write this legislation.
Unfortunately, currently, Americans
face a retirement income crisis with
too many people in danger of not hav-
ing enough in retirement to maintain
their standard of living and avoid slid-
ing into poverty.
Social Security benefits are modest;
employer-sponsored pensions are dis-
appearing; and too many people find it
difficult to save for retirement. Ac-
cording to a recent study, one-third of
American workers believe that they
will either face a significant financial
hardship during retirement or, in fact,
will never retire. And the 2018 study
found that almost two-thirds of work-
ers have no retirement account assets.
b 0915
The SECURE Act, which the Ways
and Means Committee approved with
unanimous, bipartisan votes, goes a
long way in addressing this problem by
making it easier for Americans to save.
For example, the SECURE Act in-
cludes a small employer automatic en-
rollment credit. Automatic enrollment
is shown to increase employee partici-
pation and retirement savings opportu-
nities. Our bill creates a new tax credit
of up to $500 per year for employers to
defray the startup costs for new 401(k)
plans that include automatic enroll-
ment.
The SECURE Act also increases the
age for required minimum distribu-
tions from 701⁄2 to 72. This age hasn’t
been adjusted since the 1960s. With
Americans working longer, this will
encourage them to continue saving.
The SECURE Act also allows long-
term, part-time employees to partici-
pate in their employer’s 401(k) plans.
Women are more likely to work part-
time than men, so this legislation is
particularly important for women.
Madam Speaker, I thank Representa-
tive MURPHY for her leadership here.
The bill would also make it easier for
small businesses to offer retirement
plans to their employees by elimi-
nating outdated barriers to the use of
multiple employer plans. As a result of
this provision, it is estimated that
600,000 to 700,000 new retirement oppor-
tunities will be formed.
All of these are important, common-
sense proposals that will improve our
retirement system.
I also note that this bill has tremen-
dous support from a diverse group of
stakeholders: AARP, SEIU, the Wom-
en’s Institute for a Secure Retirement,
Church Alliance, the Girl Scouts, the
Boy Scouts, and the National Rural
Electric Cooperative.
Finally, Madam Speaker, I want to
highlight a provision that fixes an ur-
gent problem affecting children of our
fallen troops and first responders. Due
to changes included in the Republicans’
tax law, the amount of tax imposed on
survivor benefits for children of vet-
erans, Active Duty servicemembers,
and emergency personnel increased sig-
nificantly.
This bill eliminates that tax increase
by repealing those changes. It also
makes sure that all similar payments,
like Tribal government payments to
children, payments out of the Alaska
Permanent Fund, and certain scholar-
ships and fellowship grants will not be
subject to this unexpected and unfair
tax treatment.
These fixes could not have been ac-
complished without Mrs. LURIA’s lead-
ership on behalf of our troops, along
with many Members on both sides of
the aisle who supported her efforts.
We should recognize Ms. MOORE’s
leadership on Tribal payments and Mr.
HORSFORD’s leadership on the scholar-
ship issue.
I am very proud that we were able to
put together a bill that will help Amer-
ican families prepare for a financially
secure retirement, and that it was done
on a bipartisan basis, which we will ac-
knowledge as the morning moves on,
with significant stakeholder support.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 1994, the SE-
CURE Act, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, for nearly 2 years,
Republicans have been advocating for
policies that help our families and
Main Street businesses save more and
save earlier for the future.
Following the historic rewrite of our
Tax Code, Republicans knew the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act was only step one.
We knew that we changed the trajec-
tory of our economy with our reforms.
Today in America, we are growing 50
percent faster than the Obama admin-
istration projected. Wages are surging
for blue-collar workers and low-income
workers for the first time in a decade,
and our job market continues to be the
envy of the world.
These are all encouraging signs, and
Republicans are committed to building
on this success for years to come,
which is why last year, we set out to
change the culture in Washington,
where we only do, it seems, tax reform
once a generation.
In Tax Reform 2.0, we passed three
bills that offered permanent tax relief
for families and small businesses,
sparked American innovation, and
went further and enhanced retirement
and savings vehicles for our workers
and our local, mainstream businesses.
That effort, the Family Savings Act,
was led by Representative MIKE KELLY.
Those reforms passed on a bipartisan
basis, and our retirement proposals
passed the U.S. House of Representa-
tives not once but twice.
Unfortunately, time ran out on the
calendar before we were able to get
these reforms to the President’s desk.
But I was greatly encouraged earlier
this year when Chairman NEAL reached
out to say he was committed to getting
retirement-focused legislation signed
into law this year. This area, retire-
ment savings, is one that Chairman
NEAL has worked on for much of his ca-
reer.
Right away, he and I, and many
members of our committee worked to-
gether to develop the Setting Every
Community Up for Retirement En-
hancement Act, the SECURE Act, we
debate today.
The SECURE Act builds well on the
work that Republicans have cham-
pioned throughout this Congress and
the last. Our bipartisan legislation
makes it easier for Main Street busi-
nesses to offer retirement plans for
their workers by making it simpler,
easing administrative burdens, and
cutting down on unnecessary and often
costly paperwork.
We make it easier for them to join
together to pool their resources to
offer these plans. We offer local busi-
nesses the flexibility to tailor retire-
ment plans to best fit their workers,
not necessarily what Washington may
need.
Additionally, our reforms help Amer-
icans not only save earlier in their ca-
reers, but it helps families save longer,
as well.
We know for a fact that people are
choosing to work longer today than in
previous generations. Our Tax Code
should reflect that, which is why we
make smart, needed changes to reflect
today’s workforce.
First, the age limit for contributing
to IRAs is removed, as it should be.
Second, we increase the minimum
age for forcing people to spend their
savings from 701⁄2 to 72 years of age. My
hope is, someday, we can we remove it
completely. We want Americans to
save throughout their lifetime and use
those savings when they need it most,
not when Washington needs it.
This legislation is prowork and,
equally as important, our bill is also
profamily.
For the first time, we allow what we
call the new baby savings provision. We
allow parents to access their own re-
tirement accounts on a penalty-free
basis to use when welcoming a new
child into their homes, whether by
birth or adoption. This works well for
working parents and stay-at-home par-
ents, as well. It is allowed to be used
for the things you need, whether it is
medical equipment, medical expenses,
or if you need to spend time at home
with your new child in those opening
weeks. We know all that is so impor-
tant.
The bill also expands 529 plans to
make sure you can use, tax-free, your
savings for apprenticeships or to pay
down college debt.
Our legislation lowers taxes for Gold
Star families, ensuring that children of
our fallen heroes have the certainty
they deserve. This provision was first
made public in 2014 in a draft that was
widely praised by Democrats and Re-
publicans alike.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.005 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4137
May 23, 2019
It was brought to us by the Joint
Committee on Taxation to make it
simpler for families to file their kids’
taxes and also to close some tax loop-
holes for the wealthy. Unfortunately,
over 5 years, with scrutiny by both par-
ties, tax experts, and the Joint Com-
mittee on Taxation, we still did not see
one unintended consequence.
In this bill, we worked together, Re-
publicans and Democrats, to make sure
we honor our Gold Star families.
The time is right for these reforms.
Workers’ paychecks are rising; infla-
tion is low; and businesses are expand-
ing. What better opportunity to help
folks save for the future?
Chairman NEAL deserves a great deal
of credit. The bill we brought to the
Rules Committee earlier this week
cleared our committee nearly unani-
mously. Members of the Progressive
Caucus, Freedom Caucus, New Demo-
crats, Problem Solvers, and Republican
Study Committee, we all voted ‘‘yes’’
on these reforms.
This is a rare occurrence in Wash-
ington, and it speaks to what a com-
mittee can accomplish when we work
together on reforms to positively im-
pact our families and economy.
I have to admit, it is incredibly trou-
bling that special interests—in this
case, teachers unions—forced changes
on our bipartisan bill for absolutely no
good reason at the eleventh hour.
These special interest groups forced
Democrats to block two provisions.
One allows parents to use their edu-
cational savings tax-free for the ex-
penses of homeschooling. Nearly 2.5
million families use parent-centered,
child-centered homeschooling as the
best way for their children to reach
their potential. It is all types of Ameri-
cans and becoming more mainstream.
It is Christians and Jews and Muslims.
It is all races. It is parents whose kids
are exceptionally bright and parents
whose kids have learning disabilities
and severe special needs. That is why
that was in the bill.
The second provision that was
blocked would allow families with kids
in grades kindergarten through 12 to
use savings for books, tutors, and edu-
cational therapies for students who
may need it, such as those with learn-
ing disabilities. How many of us in this
Chamber have kids with special needs
and learning disabilities, some with
mental and physical challenges? This
would have allowed our parents to save
tax-free and to help their kids with the
special tools they need to reach their
full potential.
I want to talk a little more about
this in the future, but my bottom line
is that backdoor deals made in the
dead of night without bipartisan
knowledge or support are not the way
to do business.
Nonetheless, as we begin the debate
on this bill, I am very encouraged by
the underlying bill we have in front of
us. It will greatly benefit our workers.
It deserves strong support, and I am
asking my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to support these reforms.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I include
in the RECORD a letter from the Church
Alliance.
CHURCH ALLIANCE,
April 1, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD NEAL,
Chairman, House Committee on Ways and
Means, Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN BRADY,
Ranking Member, House Committee on Ways
and Means, Washington, DC.
Hon. RON KIND,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. MIKE KELLY,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL, RANKING MEMBER
BRADY, CONGRESSMAN KIND AND CONGRESS-
MAN KELLY: The Church Alliance expresses
our deep gratitude for inclusion of a provi-
sion to clarify that all church-affiliated or-
ganizations are able to participate in church
403(b)(9) retirement plans in the recently in-
troduced Setting Every Community up for
Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act of
2019 (H.R. 1994). We are grateful for the tre-
mendous bipartisan work that has been done
over the past several years on retirement re-
form, and are hopeful Congress will swiftly
pass this legislation to ensure retirement se-
curity for clergy, lay workers and their fami-
lies across the United States.
The Church Alliance is a coalition of the
chief executive officers of 37 church benefits
boards which are affiliated with mainline
and evangelical Protestant denominations,
three Jewish groups, and some Catholic
schools and institutions. Church Alliance
members provide employee benefits to ap-
proximately one million clergy, lay workers,
and their families, serving over 155,000
churches, synagogues, and affiliated organi-
zations such as schools, colleges and univer-
sities, nursing homes, children’s homes,
homeless shelters, food banks, and other
ministries.
Section 110 of the SECURE Act seeks to
clarify a recent positron by the Treasury De-
partment and IRS to disregard more than 30
years of practice, precedent, and clear statu-
tory language to bar employees of certain
church-affiliated organizations from partici-
pating in retirement income account plans
offered under section 403(b)(9) of the Tax
Code. As a result, employees of church-re-
lated nursing homes, daycare centers, sum-
mer camps, preschools, colleges, univer-
sities, hospitals, and other social service or-
ganizations stand to lose access to the
unique plan features they have come to de-
pend upon. In addition, the Treasury and IRS
position would cause church 403(b)(9) plans
to incur significant transition costs, which
would unfortunately siphon resources away
from our core mission of supporting clergy
and church lay workers and lead to higher
costs for these plan participants.
We are encouraged by the introduction of
the SECURE Act and its upcoming markup
on April 2. We hope the House votes on pas-
sage of this important legislation as soon as
possible. On behalf of the Church Alliance,
thank you for your consideration of and at-
tention to this important matter. We look
forward to continuing to work with you to
promote the retirement security of people of
faith nationwide.
Sincerely,
JAMES F. (JIM) SANFT,
Chair of the Church Alliance.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. THOMPSON), who is the
chairman of the Subcommittee on Se-
lect Revenue Measures.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of the SECURE Act. I thank the
chairman, Mr. NEAL, and Speaker
PELOSI for their leadership on this im-
portant bill.
America is facing a retirement crisis.
Nearly half of all the people in Amer-
ica do not have any money saved for
retirement. The SECURE Act before us
today helps fix that.
I am glad we could reach this bipar-
tisan solution to make it easier for
workers, including home healthcare
workers in California, to take advan-
tage of important retirement savings
tools.
As a combat veteran and the father
of two first responders, I understand
how important it is that this bill also
reverses the harmful tax hikes included
in the Republican tax bill on survivor
benefits. Hiking taxes on Gold Star
families and families of first respond-
ers is unjust, and it insults how sacred
these benefits are. It is just plain
wrong. This bill reverses that harmful
provision.
Madam Speaker, I thank Congress-
woman LURIA for her leadership in this
effort.
Madam Speaker, I ask that all my
colleagues join me in support of this
very important bill.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. KELLY), who has helped
lead many of these retirement reforms.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I thank Ranking Member
BRADY for yielding. I am so used to
calling him chairman, but I look across
the aisle to my great friend RICHARD
NEAL, who is chairman right now, and
I thank him so much for bringing this
up today.
Madam Speaker, I enter into the
RECORD a letter in support of the SE-
CURE Act from AARP.
AARP,
May 22, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of our
nearly 38 million members and all older
Americans, AARP supports the Setting
Every Community Up for Retirement Act of
2019 (SECURE Act).
The SECURE Act contains a number of
provisions that will improve both access and
levels of coverage in employer-sponsored re-
tirement savings plans. The legislation
would enhance tax credits for employers that
offer retirement plans with automatic en-
rollment and encourage more adequate de-
ferral amounts. The legislation would also
make it easier for small businesses to offer
employees an automatic savings option
through a multiple employer pension plan—
a single plan in which a pooled provider as-
sumes the primary fiduciary duties, making
it easier for smaller employers to join to-
gether to offer a retirement plan to their
workers.
Another important component of the SE-
CURE Act is the expansion of access to re-
tirement savings plans for part-time work-
ers. There are more than 27 million part-
time workers in the U.S., including more
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.007 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4138 May 23, 2019
than seven million Americans age 55 and
older. According to AARP research, 38 per-
cent of those age 25 to 49 and 26 percent of
those age 50 to 64 who work part-time do so
because of caregiving responsibilities—either
for children or an adult loved one. Helping
these workers save for retirement through a
workplace savings plan would be important
for their long-term financial security. The
bill would be especially helpful to both care-
givers and older workers who shift from full-
time to part time status.
The bill would also give workers more in-
formation to prepare for retirement as well
as protections to safeguard their hard-earned
savings. It would require that workers’ ben-
efit statements add a lifetime income disclo-
sure so that the statements show not just a
lump sum, but the monthly value of their
savings at retirement. Seniors would also be
able to delay the required draw down of re-
tirement savings until age 72, giving them
more time to accumulate savings. The bill
would also clarify rules on how employers
and plans may select appropriate lifetime in-
come payments. It is important to retain
strong fiduciary law protections that ensure
all retirement plan decisions, including for
pooled plans and annuity selections, are
made solely in the interest of participants
and beneficiaries.
We urge you to vote YES on the SECURE
Act, and look forward to working with you
to enact legislation to enhance the ability of
American workers to save for a secure retire-
ment. If you have any questions, please feel
free to call me, or have your staff contact
Michele Varnhagen on our Government Af-
fairs staff.
Sincerely,
NANCY A. LEAMOND,
Executive Vice President and
Chief Advocacy and Engagement Officer.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, this is an unusual day. In
many cases, it is providential, as we
look on the eve of the time that we
take to honor our fallen war dead.
Some people confuse it with the be-
ginning of summer or the opening of
our swimming pools. It has nothing to
do with that.
But the fact that we can talk today
about the SECURE Act—and when you
talk about ‘‘secure,’’ what does ‘‘se-
cure’’ mean? It means giving you cer-
tainty, making you assured, and mak-
ing something reliable, something de-
pendable, something that is fixed,
something that is established, and
something that is solid and sound.
What we are doing today is acting in
the best interests of the American peo-
ple. We are doing it in the people’s
House at a time when the rest of the
Nation looks at us and asks, ‘‘Isn’t
there anything they can do together to
help the American people?’’
When I go home, I say, yes, there is.
I have a great friend from Wisconsin,
RON KIND, and we feel the same way. I
talked with Mr. BRADY about it, and we
feel the same way. I have talked with
Mr. NEAL about it, and we feel the
same way.
Today’s effort is adding security in
retirement years for every American,
the opportunity to go into those golden
years with a little gold in their pockets
so that they can get through it, giving
them peace of mind in being able to lay
their heads on the pillows at night feel-
ing safe and secure, knowing that they
have prepared for their retirements.
There are many other pieces to this
bill. We have talked about the provi-
sions to the Gold Star program. So if
something was wrong, we made it
right.
The 529 programs give people the op-
portunity to actually save and allocate
money for the education of their chil-
dren.
b 0930
It may not be in a 4-year college.
Maybe it is a vocational opportunity.
But it is there. It is their money, and
they should be able to use it the way
they want to use it.
I just said earlier about it being prov-
idential, and I mean that sincerely.
There will be a few times today that
the American people will look at us
and say: They really have our best in-
terests at heart. They really go to
work every day thinking that they are
not representing themselves but rep-
resenting us, the American people.
When I look at this piece of legisla-
tion, I know how hard we worked with
the chairman to get it through in the
past sessions. We almost got it there
but didn’t quite get it there.
Madam Speaker, I say to Chairman
NEAL, we are getting there. We are get-
ting there. And I say to Mr. KIND, we
are getting there.
I just think that it is such a fantastic
opportunity to show the American peo-
ple who we really are and what we real-
ly do and where our hearts really lie.
There are so many people who
worked on this. Also, the staff. I thank
Kara for doing the work that she has
done. I always call her my girl Friday.
In our office, Lori Prater. They all
work so closely together. I wish the
American people could see the camara-
derie, could see how well we work to-
gether, and could understand that our
concerns and their concerns are the
same.
I am saying today that the SECURE
Act gives us that opportunity. The
time for the American people and re-
tired people is just beginning, and we
have blue skies and strong winds on
our backs.
Madam Speaker, I wish everybody
the best Memorial Day ever, and let’s
not forget our fallen heroes.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, that is
one of those moments when I didn’t
mind the gentleman’s time running
over.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD a letter of support from diverse
coalitions across the country, includ-
ing the Girl Scouts, the Jewish Federa-
tion, the Boy Scouts of America, the
Christian Schools International, The
Rural Broadband Association, and the
National Council of Farmer Coopera-
tives.
APRIL 1, 2019.
CHARITIES & CO-OPS ENDORSE ‘‘SECURE ACT’’
RETIREMENT PACKAGE—STOPS PBGC FROM
GROSSLY OVERCHARGING OUR PENSION
PLANS
We endorse the bipartisan ‘‘SECURE Act’’
retirement package introduced by Ways &
Means Chairman Richard Neal (D-MA),
Ranking Member Kevin Brady (R-TX), and
Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Mike Kelly (R-
PA). The ‘‘SECURE Act’’ stops the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corp. (PBGC) from grossly
overcharging ‘‘Cooperative and Small Em-
ployer Charity’’ defined benefit pension
plans, i.e., plans covering multiple charities
or rural cooperatives (‘‘CSEC Plans’’) by in-
cluding critical provisions of H.R. 1007, the
‘‘Retirement Enhancement and Savings Act’’
and H.R. 1993, the ‘‘Providing Retirement Se-
curity to Workers in Small Businesses, Co-
operatives, and Service Organizations Act’’
championed by Reps. Kind and Kelly.
Our core missions are to provide food, elec-
tricity, broadband, and other necessities of
life, educate and empower children, care for
the most vulnerable, and promote the sus-
tainable development of the communities in
which our millions of members, volunteers
and beneficiaries live. However, current
PBGC rules designed for large ‘‘single-em-
ployer’’ for-profit companies inappropriately
require us to divert scarce resources from
our core missions. These bills fix this in-
equity permanently.
The same facts that led Congress to adjust
funding rules for CSEC Plans in 2014 strongly
support adjusting PBGC premiums charged
to CSEC Plans today. (See Cooperative and
Small Employer Charity Pension Flexibility
Act of 2014 (Pub. L. No. 113–97). It does not
make sense for CSEC Plans to be subject to
premiums designed for large ‘‘single-em-
ployer’’ for-profit companies.
It’s time to stop forcing charities and not-
for-profit cooperatives to subsidize the PBGC
premiums of large ‘‘single-employer’’ compa-
nies. PBGC’s own data supports reducing
premiums for CSEC Plans; in fact, PBGC
projects making more than a 3,000 percent
return on CSEC plans for the 2014–2018 pe-
riod.
Congress should include these provisions in
any retirement package sent to the Presi-
dent’s desk.
Girl Scouts of the USA; UJA—Federation
of New York, Inc.; National Rural Electric
Cooperative Assoc.; Boy Scouts of America;
United Benefits Group; NTCA—The Rural
Broadband Association; The Jewish Federa-
tions of North America; Christian Schools
International; Jewish United Fund/Jewish
Federation of Metropolitan Chicago; Hawk-
eye Insurance Association; National Council
of Farmer Cooperatives.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I ac-
knowledge the good work that Mr.
KELLY and Mr. KIND did on one very
important amendment on this as well.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PASCRELL).
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker,
after years and years of prior Con-
gresses thinking that tax policy was
giving cuts to the rich, this bill uses
our Tax Code for some good.
As the gentleman, my good friend
from Pennsylvania, just said, we can
work together, we can walk and chew
gum at the same time, we can have
oversight and have issues come up, and
we join together for the American peo-
ple. Whoever thinks otherwise doesn’t
know history and is not reading the pa-
pers every day.
Retirement should be about one
thing: security. If you have spent your
life working your tail off, you have the
right to be able to relax without fear.
But, today, millions of Americans—
millions—are afraid they are entering
or are in retirement and don’t have the
resources they need to live. Many live
on a Social Security check. They
struggle to enjoy their best years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.003 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4139
May 23, 2019
Employees deserve benefits, and em-
ployers need incentives to provide
them. This legislation does both. It
provides flexibility to 401(k)s to give
employees and small businesses better
access; it creates a tax credit for em-
ployers; and it creates a tax credit for
employers that build automatic enroll-
ment plans.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
an additional 30 seconds to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. PASCRELL. By passing this bill,
we would finally repeal the maximum
age for IRA contributions, something I
have worked on for many years.
This bill cleared out of our com-
mittee unanimously. That is pretty
rare. It is as rare as a unicorn. That
tells you how commonsense the bill is.
I am glad that this bill eliminates an
unfair tax, a tax increase on the bene-
fits of children and Gold Star military
families that was caused by the tax bill
of 2017. This was a crushing blow to
many families.
Madam Speaker, it is fitting that the
House will make this fix before Memo-
rial Day.
I encourage my colleagues to support
the SECURE Act.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr. HOLD-
ING), a key member of the Ways and
Means Committee.
Mr. HOLDING. Madam Speaker, this
past Saturday, I had the great pleasure
of addressing a number of homeschool
graduates in Cary, North Carolina, 55
of them, in fact.
I was impressed by these students,
and I was inspired by their parents,
who have made so many sacrifices and
who have dedicated immeasurable time
to ensuring their kids get a good edu-
cation.
Today, we were supposed to be voting
on legislation that would help
homeschoolers. Tens of millions of
Americans choose 529 savings plans to
cover K–12 expenses. This money can be
used for public schools, private schools,
and religious schools, but it cannot be
used to cover homeschool expenses.
This bill was supposed to fix this in-
equity by enabling homeschool parents
to use their 529 savings plans. This
would help erase and ease the financial
burden on homeschool parents and give
homeschoolers the same opportunities
and resources enjoyed by other kids
who go to private and public schools.
As Chairman NEAL said, Republicans
and Democrats on the Ways and Means
Committee came together, passed this
bill out of our committee. Then it went
to the Rules Committee, and Demo-
cratic leadership intervened. At the
last minute, the bill was changed, and
the language ending this discrimina-
tion against homeschoolers was re-
moved.
Why would anyone object to ending
the wrongful discrimination against
homeschool families? There are over
130,000 homeschoolers in North Caro-
lina and 1.6 million across the country.
They deserve fairness, and their incred-
ible parents deserve our help.
Sadly, Madam Speaker, that is not
going to happen today. Otherwise, this
is a good bill, but it certainly could
have been a better bill.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS).
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, when only 39 percent
of Americans have enough savings to
cover an emergency costing $1,000 and
when 67 percent of Americans say that
they will outlive their retirement sav-
ings, the SECURE Act becomes a life-
saver.
It becomes a lifesaver because it
makes it easier for small businesses to
offer retirement plans. It gives retire-
ment benefit opportunities to home
healthcare workers, more than half of
whom are women of color, working for
extremely low pay.
And I must take note of that, be-
cause these individuals are at the low
end of not only quality of life but low
end of earnings. They now have an op-
portunity for some serious consider-
ation of retirement.
It creates a small employer auto-
matic enrollment credit to make it
easier for workers to participate in
401(k) plans.
These are important changes. It is a
great bill, not just a good bill.
Madam Speaker, I strongly support
it, and I urge all my colleagues to do
so.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Missouri (Mr. SMITH), a
member of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee, who has been a champion for
expanding education savings accounts
for Americans.
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to speak about a
broken agreement and a missed oppor-
tunity to help families save for their
children’s education.
In April, the Ways and Means Com-
mittee marked up this bill in a very bi-
partisan manner. We heard ideas from
both sides of the aisle to help Ameri-
cans save for the future and their re-
tirements.
Like all good negotiations, there was
give and take. No side got everything
they wanted, but we reached an agree-
ment where we could pass the bill
unanimously. In short, this is how the
American people expect their govern-
ment to work.
Madam Speaker, unfortunately, it
became clear that this agreement was
not in good faith. At the last minute,
Democrats decided to undermine our
bipartisan work on the Ways and
Means Committee and stripped out an
issue many Republicans feel strongly
about: helping families afford everyday
K–12 education costs.
Expanding 529 education savings ac-
counts to cover common K–12 expenses
would help all families save for their
children’s education and their unique
needs, no matter where they attend
school, whether it is public school, pri-
vate school, religious school,
homeschool, and so on.
Madam Speaker, I want to know,
what is so controversial about helping
families afford educational therapies
for students with disabilities? What is
so controversial about making it easier
to pay for tutoring, books, and stand-
ardized testing fees?
This is a missed opportunity to help
families afford education costs no mat-
ter where they send their children to
school, and it is a shame that partisan
politics is getting in the way of helping
families everywhere.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. EVANS).
Mr. EVANS. Madam Speaker, I thank
the chairman of this strong, powerful
committee and the ranking member for
leading this effort.
Madam Speaker, I rise to offer my
support for the SECURE Act.
Making it easier for small businesses
to offer retirement savings plans is
vital. It is vital not only for the benefit
of these small firms but also the people
they employ, their families, and the
communities they support.
In my home State of Pennsylvania,
we have nearly 1 million small busi-
nesses, employing 2.5 million workers,
accounting for 46.7 percent of the work-
force for the entire State. Small firms
account for 99.6 percent of my State’s
employers.
Small businesses are a vital part of
saving our middle neighborhoods in
Philadelphia and across the country.
These are neighborhoods that are
poised to tip either toward blight or
growth. By helping small businesses
and their employees, the SECURE Act
would help to revitalize these middle
neighborhoods and help our economy
grow from the ground up.
Again, I thank the chairman and his
leadership and the ranking member for
this action.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
very proud to yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
SCHWEIKERT), a key member of our
committee who worked on this legisla-
tion.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
to the committee chairman and, in my
world, the chairman for life, you have
done great.
It has been an interesting experience
being in the minority, but we are
blessed. We have freaky-smart people
on the committee. It works. Even when
we disagree, at least the debate and the
discussion is fairly highbrow.
I, too, am concerned on the 529, more
so because of the flexibility and, being
the daddy of a 31⁄2-year-old, not com-
pletely knowing if there are going to be
any special needs coming, that choice.
We should love and embrace the con-
cept of that flexibility to take care of
our little people.
I am very encouraged that there is
movement towards incentivizing it and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.011 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4140 May 23, 2019
making it easier, particularly for
smaller businesses, to offer access into
retirement accounts.
We need to have the conversation—
and it is uncomfortable for all of us—
go a bit further.
The amount of our society that is
now in independent-contractor rela-
tionships, should we be allowed to use
technology so that population also
starts to have more and more savings
for the future? We just need to deal
with it. That is where much of the
economy, in a demand economy, is
going.
My last caveat—and I am voting for
the bill. We have come a long ways. I
do worry a little bit about the special
agreement on newspapers, only because
if we are truly worried about pro-
tecting workers into their retirement
years, do we want to create more even
special, special, special small cutouts
where we are allowing the under-
funding of a pension system?
We just need to think that through a
little more from an ethical standpoint.
Do we keep creating carve-out after
carve-out after carve-out that creates a
fragility for that retired population?
Even though we think we are helping
the businesses survive, we actually
hurt the future chances of those retir-
ees getting their checks. We need to be
careful on that.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. SÁNCHEZ), who was very in-
strumental in the provisions that will
simplify the Form 5500 filing process
for small business.
Ms. SÁNCHEZ. Madam Speaker, I
rise in support of the SECURE Act. I
thank Chairman RICHARD NEAL for his
tireless efforts to get this legislation
across the finish line.
I have been proud to support versions
of this bill for many years, and I am
pleased that one of my bills has been
included. My piece of this package of-
fers a simple yet impactful way for
small businesses across the country to
better afford retirement plans for their
employees.
Too many Americans simply aren’t
putting enough money away to ensure
a secure retirement. Today’s bill takes
important steps to strengthen access
to retirement security for hardworking
Americans, and I am proud to have
contributed one piece to solving this
puzzle.
b 0945
But we still have a lot of work to do.
I look forward to the passage of the
SECURE Act today, and I am ready to
keep working on the Ways and Means
Committee to continue addressing our
national retirement savings crisis.
Madam Speaker, I again thank Chair-
man NEAL.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Kansas (Mr. ESTES), one of
our new members of the Ways and
Means Committee.
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of the SECURE Act. It
is an overall good policy that will en-
courage Americans to save for retire-
ment.
I am pleased that this bill makes it
easier for small businesses to join to-
gether and offer retirement plans for
more Americans. It allows graduate
students and home healthcare workers
to save more for retirement.
It includes a policy change to help
Gold Star families. It also includes a
fix to the taxation of children’s un-
earned income that will support Amer-
ican Indian Tribal youth and encourage
them to pursue a college education,
similar to the legislation that I helped
introduce with my colleague from Wis-
consin (Ms. MOORE).
Finally, this bill will allow 529 plans
to be used to pay for student loans and
apprenticeship programs.
As a former State treasurer of Kan-
sas, I oversaw a 529 plan and under-
stand the importance of expanding
these plans for our families. That is
why I am disappointed that the man-
ager’s amendment removed good policy
from this legislation that would have
allowed 529 plans to help be used for ex-
penses for K–12 education and to help
special needs children.
Earlier this year, my Republican col-
leagues and I on the Ways and Means
Committee entered good faith negotia-
tions with Chairman NEAL and our
Democratic colleagues to craft this
bill. As a result, Republicans and
Democrats on the committee unani-
mously voted for the SECURE Act in
April.
However, since that time, the other
side of the aisle played politics with
this legislation when it was before the
Rules Committee and removed those
additional 529 provisions that were
originally included to help special
needs students. So, while I support to-
day’s bill and the policies that are still
included, I sincerely hope that, moving
forward, we can stop playing politics
with good pieces of legislation and
work in a bipartisan manner and nego-
tiate in good faith to produce legisla-
tion that will help the American peo-
ple.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I include
in the RECORD a letter of support for
the SECURE Act from the National As-
sociation of Insurance Commissioners.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS,
May 7, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman, Ways and Means Committee, House
of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN BRADY,
Ranking Member, Ways and Means Committee,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL AND RANKING MEM-
BER BRADY: On behalf of the National Asso-
ciation of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC),
we would like to express our support for H.R.
1994, the Setting Every Community Up for
Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act.
Recognizing the retirement savings crisis
that exists in the United States, state insur-
ance regulators have worked to make im-
provements to regulation and guidance im-
pacting product delivery, compliance, and
innovation of insurance products designed to
help mitigate this crisis under the NAIC Re-
tirement Security Initiative. Given the
unique products and features of our sector,
state insurance regulators have embraced a
broader public policy responsibility to not
only ensure consumers remain protected by
a solvent industry, but to help foster an en-
vironment where they have greater flexi-
bility and more options to take informed
steps to secure their retirement. The SE-
CURE Act is aligned with the goals of this
initiative as it seeks to provide greater con-
sumer options for retirement plans.
Several of the provisions contained in the
SECURE Act also complement our own con-
sumer financial literacy and disclosure ef-
forts and will make it easier for consumers
to save for retirement. First, the legislation
makes it easier for consumers to engage in a
tax-free rollover of an annuity to another
employer-sponsored retirement plan or IRA
and avoid surrender charges and fees, mak-
ing these products more portable and pro-
viding consumers more flexibility. Second,
the bill would encourage plan participants to
think in terms of lifetime income by requir-
ing benefit statements to break down the
total account balance into estimates of
monthly annuity income at least once a
year. Third, the legislation makes it easier
for ERISA plan sponsors to select companies
to offer annuity products by creating a safe
harbor that relies on the conservative sol-
vency regime of the state insurance regu-
latory system, which is specifically designed
to ensure that an insurance company’s obli-
gations will be met both today and many
years into the future.
We applaud your leadership in this effort
to assist savers in making more-informed de-
cisions to prepare for their retirement and
allowing defined contribution plans to be-
come a more effective vehicle for providing
lifetime income.
Sincerely,
ERIC A. CIOPPA,
NAIC President, Su-
perintendent, Maine
Bureau of Insur-
ance.
DAVID ALTMAIER,
NAIC Vice President,
Commissioner, Flor-
ida Office of Insur-
ance Regulation.
MICHAEL F. CONSEDINE,
Chief Executive Offi-
cer, National Asso-
ciation of Insurance
Commissioners.
RAYMOND G. FARMER,
NAIC President-Elect,
Director, South
Carolina Depart-
ment of Insurance.
DEAN L. CAMERON,
NAIC Secretary-Treas-
urer, Director, Idaho
Department of In-
surance.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Wis-
consin (Mr. KIND), who was very instru-
mental in provisions which will help
small businesses sponsor retirement
plans, including multiple-employer
plans.
Mr. KIND. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I rise in strong support of the SE-
CURE Act. This legislation is meant to
address one of the great gaps we have
in retirement savings: employees in
small businesses, primarily affecting
women, minorities, and young adults.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.012 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4141
May 23, 2019
I want to thank the chairman and
the ranking member for their leader-
ship on the issue. I want to thank my
good friend MIKE KELLY for partnering
with me throughout this process, along
with former colleagues Dave Reichert
and Pat Tiberi, with whom I had a
chance to work on this issue in par-
ticular.
I also want to thank the Representa-
tive in the chair today, Representative
ELAINE LURIA, our commander. She is
the one who introduced the Gold Star
fix. It was a mistake that was made in
the Tax Code that adversely affects
survivor benefits for children of our
fallen soldiers.
It also fixes distributions to Native
American children and to students who
receive scholarships and grants. I
thank her for her leadership on it.
This is a good, bipartisan, bicameral
piece of legislation. I encourage my
colleagues to support it.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Ne-
braska (Mr. SMITH).
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I do want to say that I plan to
vote for this bill. I support the im-
provements it makes to savings and re-
tirement, which have gained bipartisan
approval, both in the Senate and here
in the House.
In particular, I appreciate hearing
from agricultural cooperatives across
Nebraska’s Third District about the
importance to them of the language in
this bill reducing PBGC premiums for
nonprofits.
I am also incredibly pleased we are
moving quickly to address the Gold
Star families tax issue and hope we can
complete work on that problem as
quickly—if not more quickly—as the
rest of the provisions in this bill.
I do have reservations and concerns
about the process which got us here
and some provisions which are no
longer in the bill.
As we know, the bill was marked up
in the Ways and Means Committee on
April 2. We reported it out unani-
mously, a very bipartisan effort. It was
moved out of committee by a voice
vote.
Prior to the markup, there were no
concerns raised about the provisions in
the bill, provisions that would help
families pay for the education of their
children, whether in home school or
public school. As we know, many ex-
penses come up for various reasons.
It is unfortunate that that took
place, and I know that this wasn’t the
first time. Actually, it was the second
time in 2 weeks that we are here con-
sidering legislation that was a product
of bipartisan agreement in committee,
but it was altered before it came to the
House. It is very unfortunate.
And as I said at the beginning, I am
going to support this bill. It has many
good provisions, but I hope that we can
avoid similar situations from under-
mining the committee process, under-
mining the integrity of the committee
system that we have that empowers in-
dividual Members to work together
with colleagues on a bipartisan basis.
Let’s not undermine that.
Again, I will vote for this bill. It
could have been a better bill, and I
hope next time we can address the
shortcomings, moving forward.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. BLUMENAUER), chairman of the
Trade Subcommittee.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker,
I appreciate the gentleman’s courtesy,
and I appreciate his moving forward on
the issue of retirement security, for
which he has been a tireless champion.
We are facing a retirement crisis in
this country. Nearly half of households
headed by someone 55 or older lack re-
tirement savings. One of the many rea-
sons they are not saving enough is lack
of access to retirement plans. This bill
moves in that direction.
I appreciate it is going to increase
access to employer retirement plans
for people who work in small business
and part-time workers.
Of particular interest to me is a pro-
vision in this bill that fixes a quirk in
the current law that prevents many
home care workers from participating
in a 401(k) or saving with an individual
retirement account, an IRA.
I heard directly from home
healthcare workers in Oregon about
this problem. I am pleased, working
with the committee, we have been able
to fix this quirk moving forward. I an-
ticipate this is one of many bills that
will be moving forward dealing with re-
tirement security in America, and I
look forward to that progress.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. WALBERG), who has
worked on retirement and pension
issues for many years.
Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, I
thank my friend from Texas for yield-
ing, and I thank him for his work.
Madam Chairman, I rise today in
support of H.R. 1994, the Setting Every
Community Up for Retirement En-
hancement Act.
I would like to thank Chairman NEAL
and Ranking Member BRADY for their
leadership on this important piece of
legislation.
For families in my district, putting
away enough money for retirement is a
constant struggle. Now more than ever,
we need policies that empower workers
to save more and save earlier for re-
tirement.
I am pleased this legislation includes
a provision I coauthored with my col-
league from Delaware (Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER). Our bipartisan provision
clarifies rules surrounding annuity
plans, making it possible for more em-
ployers to provide guaranteed lifetime
income products as part of their bene-
fits package. Our goal is to remove bar-
riers to saving and give workers a vari-
ety of tools so they can choose what
option best fits their needs.
Madam Speaker, we have a retire-
ment income crisis in this country, and
the SECURE Act will help more Ameri-
cans retire with dignity and piece of
mind. I urge its passage today.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. DELBENE), who was
very instrumental in the provisions
providing pension funding relief for
community newspapers and home
healthcare workers as they attempt to
maintain their retirement plans.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman for yielding.
I rise today in support of the SE-
CURE Act. It is time that we address
the retirement crisis in our country.
The SECURE Act takes several im-
portant steps to make it easier for
Americans to save for retirement, and
one important example is helping pro-
vide retirement benefit opportunities
to home care workers.
Home care workers provide critical
services for the elderly and disabled.
Their service is vital to ensure that pa-
tients under their care lead a dignified
life, and it is only right that they are
able to have a secure retirement.
The SECURE Act fixes a tax inequity
that unintentionally prohibits many
home care workers from participating
in a 401(k) or contributing to an IRA.
If we do not pass the SECURE Act,
between 15,000 and 30,000 workers in my
home State of Washington could be
kicked out of their defined contribu-
tion plan. With passage of the SECURE
Act, home care workers will rightfully
have the same opportunity to save for
retirement as other workers.
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER), a leader who
has worked for working moms and our
veterans.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, I
thank my friend from Texas (Mr.
BRADY) for yielding me the time.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of the SECURE Act.
Over the last two decades, we have
made progress in helping Americans
save more for their retirement. U.S. re-
tirement savings have increased from
$11 trillion in 2001 to $28 trillion today.
But we need to do more, especially in
this booming economy.
This legislation will increase the
number of workers with access to re-
tirement plans, encourage higher sav-
ings rates, and enable older working
adults to save for a secure retirement.
The SECURE Act is a commonsense,
private-sector solution enabling Amer-
icans to save more for their retirement
by expanding access for workers who
choose to participate in a workplace
plan. It simultaneously preserves em-
ployer choice and competition.
The SECURE Act has the added ben-
efit of lowering taxes for our Gold Star
families. Providing more for the rel-
atives and the children of U.S. military
members who gave their lives to secure
our freedom and liberty is most fitting
on the eve of our Memorial Day week-
end.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.014 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4142 May 23, 2019
I urge my colleagues to vote in favor
of this legislation today.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Wisconsin (Ms. MOORE), who was a
leader on the kiddie tax issue address-
ing Tribal distributions.
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman for his leadership
and for moving this bipartisan legisla-
tion forward. This is really a necessary
step to ensuring that more Americans
can save for retirement.
I also commend the chairman for his
swift action to redress the harsh tax
rate and unintended consequences
caused by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of
2017 on Gold Star families, low-income
children, and young adults who receive
payments from Tribal governments.
Our special tax rules on unearned in-
come of children and young adults to
prevent wealthy families from engag-
ing in tax planning to artificially lower
their tax burden, of course, is not rel-
evant to these payments made to Gold
Star families, survivor benefits, and
Tribal children.
The 2017 rate repeal only partially
addressed an underlying problem where
additional legislation is required rel-
ative to Tribal youth. Mr. ESTES and I
introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R.
2018, to fix the underlying problem of
the kiddie tax on taxable disburse-
ments made by Tribal governments.
So, Madam Speaker, I ask the chair-
man to tell Members of this Chamber
and the Tribes who are watching close-
ly throughout the country what his in-
tentions are relative to the underlying
problem with the kiddie tax.
Mr. NEAL. Will the gentlewoman
yield?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Chair, I yield my-
self 30 seconds.
I want to thank the gentlewoman
from Wisconsin (Ms. MOORE) for her
support of the bill before us and her
leadership on addressing the unfair tax
that has plagued Tribes making tax-
able distributions to their children and
young adults.
b 1000
The kiddie tax was enacted to pre-
vent wealthy families from shifting
family income to minor children.
The rationale for this new law does
not apply to funds distributed by In-
dian Tribal governments because In-
dian Tribes are not taxable entities and
their distributions could never be in-
tended for the purpose of a tax deduc-
tion.
The Ways and Means Committee will
work to address this problem, with the
goal of excluding such Tribal govern-
ment distributions from the kiddie tax
provisions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 15
seconds to the gentlewoman from Wis-
consin (Ms. MOORE).
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, this is
a first step toward meeting our trust
obligations to the sovereign first peo-
ples of this country.
I thank the chairman for yielding.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself 30 seconds.
Madam Speaker, I want to recognize
those who worked in a bipartisan way
to address the Gold Star issue: Rep-
resentatives BACON, DIAZ-BALART, HER-
RERA BEUTLER, HOLDING, MARCHANT,
WAGNER, WALTZ, and WENSTRUP.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, how
much time is remaining on both sides?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Massachusetts has 143⁄4
minutes remaining. The gentleman
from Texas has 63⁄4 minutes remaining.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. SCHNEIDER), who is very knowl-
edgeable about retirement issues.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker, I
rise in strong support of the SECURE
Act.
A secure and dignified retirement is a
critical part of the American Dream,
but for too many seniors, this aspira-
tion is falling increasingly out of
reach.
I am pleased that this House is tak-
ing action today in response. Our bill
will help more Americans save for re-
tirement by allowing workers to par-
ticipate in 401(k) plans.
Additionally, the legislation makes
it easier for small businesses to offer
retirement plans to their employees
and help small businesses set up auto-
matic enrollment programs. It replaces
antiquated barriers slowing the adop-
tion of multiemployer plans and im-
proves the quality of service providers.
The AARP estimates that these
changes will lead to more than 700,000
new retirement accounts.
Finally, as we approach Memorial
Day and reflect on the ultimate sac-
rifice made by fallen servicemembers
and their families, I am pleased this
legislation fixes a provision in the 2017
Republican tax law that increased
taxes on survivor benefits paid by fami-
lies. Our Gold Star families already
deal with the unimaginable loss of a
loved one; they should not also be fac-
ing a tax increase.
Madam Speaker, I am so proud this
legislation was a bipartisan effort in
the Ways and Means Committee, and I
urge my colleagues to support this im-
portant bill to improve retirement se-
curity.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. SUOZZI).
Mr. SUOZZI. Madam Speaker, there
is a retirement crisis in America today.
Working men and women simply just
don’t have enough money in retirement
savings.
I rise today to advocate for the bipar-
tisan SECURE Act, which will: one,
help small businesses provide retire-
ment plans that include automatic en-
rollment by giving those businesses an
opportunity to pool together and by of-
fering them a tax credit to help pay for
startup costs; and, two, provide 401(k)s
for the rising number of part-time
workers and independent contractors
in the new tech economy that can be
portable from their current jobs to the
next ones.
Since the 1980s, the American econ-
omy has grown dramatically. Since
1983, the Dow Jones has gone up 1,200
percent and the GDP has gone up 600
percent, yet the wages of the American
people have gone up less than 20 per-
cent. No longer is hard work a guar-
antee of achieving the American
Dream.
Every American, whether liberal or
conservative, believes that if you are
willing to work 40 or 50 hours a week
and 50 weeks a year that you should be
able to have a decent place to live, to
educate your children, to have health
insurance, and to retire one day with-
out being scared. That is simply not
happening.
The SECURE Act will help make re-
tirement security a reality for millions
of Americans.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. WALTZ), a veteran, a Green
Beret, and a new Member of Congress.
Mr. WALTZ. Madam Speaker, as a
combat veteran and as a Green Beret,
this is personal for me. I know first-
hand the seriousness of the call to
serve our country, and I know that
when soldiers take their place on the
battlefield, they are prepared to defend
America and lose their lives for our
freedom.
The families of our servicemembers
wait for their loved one’s safe return
nervously and anxiously await hearing
their voice and feeling the comfort of
their warm embrace once more. Unfor-
tunately, for some, the knock on their
door instead initiates them into a fra-
ternity no family wants to join. That
knock changes them forever and makes
them part of the Gold Star family.
When our servicemembers pass, many
of their spouses put their benefits in
their children’s name. As if the loss of
a mother or a father isn’t and wasn’t
painful enough, some of our Gold Star
children’s pain is worsened by an unin-
tended oversight in our Tax Code which
forces them to pay thousands in addi-
tional taxes on survivor benefits and
raises their tax liability from 12 per-
cent to nearly 40 percent.
This is not just a financial issue; it is
a strategic issue for our Volunteer
military. It affects recruitment and re-
tention. Some people may not want to
volunteer with the possibility of a
large financial burden on their loved
one if the worst happens.
The bottom line is, if our family sup-
port starts cracking, the entire founda-
tion of our modern military is in trou-
ble. We have an opportunity today to
right this wrong and to fix this with
the Gold Star Family Tax Relief Act,
which is being included in the SECURE
Act that is up for today’s vote.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.015 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4143
May 23, 2019
I would thank Chairman NEAL and
Ranking Member BRADY for quickly
recognizing this issue and for including
this measure in the final bill.
Today, I call upon my colleagues in
the House to make this right. I hope
that Members will join me in sup-
porting the passage of this legislation
to show our country’s appreciation to
the Gold Star families for laying so
costly a sacrifice upon the altar of free-
dom.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Virginia
(Mr. BEYER) and thank the gentleman
for his valuable work on the kiddie tax
issue that affects the children of fallen
first responders.
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of H.R. 1994.
I would like to begin by thanking
Chairman NEAL, my friend RON KIND,
and all of the good folks and com-
mittee staff for their hard work on this
bill.
The 2017 Republican tax law was
passed despite being littered with er-
rors, unintended consequences, and
just straight-up bad ideas.
One of the most unjustifiable and im-
mediately painful provisions of the bill
was the unintended consequence of this
change to the kiddie tax, which re-
sulted in massive tax increases for the
surviving children of servicemembers,
first responders, as well as for scholar-
ship recipients and other minors. The
SECURE Act repeals that provision.
These populations deserve our sym-
pathy and support. I can only hope that
this was a stunning oversight.
Since the harms of this provision
came to light during tax filings, many
Members, including myself, heard from
constituents whose families were sub-
ject to these unjust and shocking bills.
Several bills have been introduced to
address these tax issues for various im-
pacted groups, including my bill, H.R.
2840, which exempted the survivors of
first responders. It is a strong, positive
bill, and I encourage my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
very proud to yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from California (Mr.
MCCARTHY), the leader for Republicans
of the U.S. House of Representatives.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Before I begin, I want to thank both
sides. I want to thank the chairman
and I want to thank the ranking mem-
ber, not for the bill that is on the floor
today but for the bill that was put out
of committee.
When we look across the country, we
see division. Very seldom can we ever
find a bill that gets every Democrat’s
and every Republican’s support, but
that is what we look for, that commit-
tees can work together.
The whole reason bills go through
committees before they come to the
floor is this is where the expertise is,
this is where the debates happen, this
is where it is combined together.
But now I want to apologize to the
chairman. I don’t know what the gen-
tleman’s leadership did or why. But
why would they change the moment
that we have for the country to see
something that they haven’t seen in a
while? Why would they do something
that a chairman and a ranking member
and every member on that committee,
regardless of where they come from
across this country, regardless of
party, agreed to?
Special interest has power. Special
interest is more powerful than the
members who are in that committee
with the expertise. Special interest is
more powerful than Members of Con-
gress finding common ground. Special
interest is more powerful with the
leadership on the other side.
They should not treat their Members
this way. They should not treat Amer-
ica this way.
So let’s talk about this bill. Because
what it really goes to is, how powerful
is this special interest, and who are
they hurting?
Many parents choose to use a 529 sav-
ings account to help them save money
for their children’s education. We all
agree on each side of the aisle that the
most important thing that happens
when you have a child is the oppor-
tunity that they will have. It is no
longer about what you will become; it
is what your children’s opportunities
will be.
We all agree that education is the
great equalizer. It doesn’t matter
where a person grows up or what side of
the street they live on, but education
will give everybody that opportunity.
As a Republican leader, when I
watched this committee work, I was
proud. I was proud of both sides. I was
proud that they were able to come to-
gether. And where they came together
was on 529 accounts. These plans allow
them to invest in a tax-free account,
incur interest, and spend it on edu-
cational expenses like tuition.
For many years, these accounts only
applied to college-related expenses,
but, today, thanks to the Republican-
led tax reform law in 2017, families can
now use those funds to pay K–12 costs
too.
Because why would we want to hurt
somebody? Maybe they were in a bad
school district or have other reasons.
We want everybody in America to have
that opportunity. That was a big win
for all families—Republican, Democrat,
Green Party, didn’t matter.
Under current law, 529 savings ac-
counts cannot be used for K–12 book
costs, tutoring expenses for when kids
fall behind and we want them to be
able to catch up, fees for college admis-
sion exams—anybody that has a child
at that age knows how much is spent
on all of the exams—or to pay for edu-
cational therapy for students with dis-
abilities.
Wouldn’t everybody want to help
that child with disabilities? I believe
so. The action of the committee proved
that. Every Democrat in the com-
mittee said that, and every member on
the Republican side said that. I was
proud of that.
But, unfortunately, special interest
has more power. This is why, to me, I
have real concerns on this bill. The of-
ficial bill report is fantastic, what
came out of committee. But when it
got to the Democrat leadership, I guess
they had different plans.
Now, I shouldn’t be shocked, because
I was sitting in this well last week
with the same dilemma. Another com-
mittee, Energy and Commerce, was
dealing with a really important issue,
much like what we are dealing with
today, prescription drugs. And what
happened was that both sides agreed on
how to make prescription drug prices
lower and give Americans more op-
tions, and they all voted for it. But it
went right through that leadership,
Madam Speaker, on the other side, and
special interest won again. They put a
poison pill in, so that will never be-
come law.
Madam Speaker, because special in-
terest pressured this leadership to
change this bill, it says something. To
me, it says three things very clearly.
It seems to me that the Democratic
leadership is not the same Democratic
leadership that I knew in the past.
There are people on the other side of
the aisle who call themselves Socialist
Democrats. It seems to me that they
want institutions, not individuals, to
be focused on education funding. They
want partisan interests, not parents, to
decide how children learn. And they
want the Federal Government, not
families, to have control over their
money.
b 1015
But that is not what the American
people want. The American people
want exactly what happened in that
committee, exactly the power that
brought all the Republicans and all the
Democrats together. They don’t want
special interests to continue to run
this House.
The committee proved they could
stand up. Whom did they stand up for?
Those who need it the most: the par-
ents of children with disabilities, lev-
eling the playing field so every child
has an opportunity when it comes to
education.
Of all the issues that could divide us,
Madam Speaker, I don’t understand
why the leadership did that to the
Ways and Means Committee. I don’t
think that is right for the work that
the chairman and the ranking member
put in. We deserve better. We displayed
that we could be better. Unfortunately,
special interests won over the parents,
and that is wrong.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. KILDEE).
Mr. KILDEE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman for yielding and
for his leadership on bringing this im-
portant legislation to the floor.
Let’s say what this bill really does. It
provides Americans who work hard ac-
cess to retirement with dignity and re-
spect. It allows workers who don’t have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.017 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4144 May 23, 2019
access to retirement accounts—includ-
ing home healthcare workers, part-
time workers, as well as multiple em-
ployers—to have access to retirement
accounts.
The SECURE Act fixes this. This is
an important step forward in providing
much-needed retirement security for so
many Americans. It encourages small
employers to develop 401(k) plans. It
helps build our workforce by allowing
apprentices access to college savings
accounts to cover the cost of pur-
chasing equipment necessary for their
training for their chosen trade. This is
a big step forward for those workers.
Finally, Madam Speaker, I appre-
ciate the fact that this bill also ad-
dresses some of the many oversights of
the 2017 Republican tax bill, including
addressing how children are taxed, es-
pecially Tribal children.
This is a good bill, and I support it.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
prepared to close, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Flor-
ida (Mrs. MURPHY), who was instru-
mental on a provision allowing long-
term, part-time workers to participate
in 401(k) plans.
Mrs. MURPHY. Madam Speaker, if
you spend your life working hard, then
you should have the dignity of a secure
retirement. That is why I rise today in
strong support for the SECURE Act, a
bipartisan bill that will help more
Americans retire with dignity and with
a higher quality of life. It allows older
Americans to continue to invest more
and for longer in their traditional IRAs
so that they can get a greater ROI on
their hard-earned money.
It also contains a provision I au-
thored requiring employers to allow
long-term, part-time employees to par-
ticipate in a company’s 401(k) plan.
This change will especially help
women, as women are more likely than
men to be long-term, part-time work-
ers.
Finally, the SECURE Act fixes a mis-
take the Republicans made last Con-
gress when they rammed through their
partisan tax giveaway to corporations
and the wealthy. In doing so, they in-
advertently raised taxes on Gold Star
children and families.
As we fix this problem today, I hope
this body remembers that process mat-
ters and that a bad process leads to un-
intended consequences that hurt every-
day Americans. I am glad that we can
undo some of that damage today.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support the SECURE Act,
which is a good piece of bipartisan leg-
islation that helps countless American
families.
Mr. BRADY. I reserve the balance of
my time, Madam Speaker.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Con-
necticut (Mr. LARSON), who was very
instrumental on a provision related to
benefits to volunteer firefighters and
emergency medical responders.
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to support the
SECURE Act and commend Chairman
NEAL and Republican Leader BRADY for
the outstanding work on this, as well
as our colleagues RON KIND and MIKE
KELLY. I also would like to single out
Dave Reichert, who is no longer here,
and myself for the work that was done
with regard to volunteers.
The provisions of this bill in terms of
aid and assistance to rank-and-file citi-
zens are legendary—and I thank Mr.
NEAL again for those efforts—but spe-
cifically for volunteer firefighters, for
EMTs, and for those who give selflessly
in an opportunity to serve their com-
munities. For the meager amounts of
uniforms and whatever they received in
compensation, to have that taxed was
an insult. So I am proud, again, to
make sure that this piece of legislation
included an opportunity for volunteers
all across this country. Twenty-three
communities in my State have volun-
teers.
I thank the chairman again for his
leadership.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Virginia
(Mr. SCOTT). Chairman BOBBY SCOTT is
responsible for a number of very impor-
tant provisions in this legislation.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
I rise in support of the SECURE Act,
a bipartisan proposal to address our
Nation’s retirement security crisis.
Several of the bill’s provisions are
under the jurisdiction of the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, and I
would like to discuss two of them.
First, the SECURE Act makes it
easier for small businesses to band to-
gether to form multiple employer
plans. This is expected to increase
workers’ access to retirement savings
programs with potentially lower cost
investment options.
Second, the SECURE Act includes a
carefully and narrowly tailored safe
harbor for the selection of an annuity
provider for 401(k) plans. This limited
safe harbor is intended to ease employ-
ers’ concerns about their fiduciary li-
ability and to expand workers’ access
to annuities and other lifetime income
options.
I thank Chairman NEAL and Ranking
Member BRADY for their leadership,
and I urge my colleagues to support
the SECURE Act.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. MALINOWSKI).
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to express my strong sup-
port for the bipartisan SECURE Act.
This bill will enable hundreds of thou-
sands of working and middle-class
Americans to retire with the dignity
they deserve.
According to the AARP, 72 percent of
New Jersey’s workers say they are anx-
ious about having enough money to
live comfortably through retirement,
and 86 percent of workers without ac-
cess to a retirement savings account
would take advantage of one if avail-
able.
Madam Speaker, 1.7 million people in
New Jersey work for employers that do
not provide access to a retirement
plan. So this year, our State passed a
law requiring businesses with 25 or
more employees to participate in a re-
tirement savings program. The SE-
CURE Act will make it much easier for
small- and medium-sized businesses in
New Jersey to meet this requirement
by allowing them to pool together to
create multi-employer plans. It also
expands access to retirement accounts
for home healthcare workers, a rapidly
growing sector of our economy.
Passing this bill today will go a long
way toward helping Americans retire
with peace of mind. I am grateful for
the bipartisan support, and I urge my
colleagues to back the bill.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Vir-
ginia (Mrs. LURIA) and thank her par-
ticularly for her critical leadership in
preventing an unfair and unexpected
tax burden from being imposed on the
children of our fallen soldiers.
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, we are
all in Congress because we see room for
improvement in America, especially
for our servicemembers, veterans, and
our military families. As a 20-year
Navy veteran myself, I know it is not
just the brave men and women who
fight for America, but also the families
who support them every step of the
way.
When Gold Star widows from Vir-
ginia Beach contacted me about how
their tax bills jumped thousands of dol-
lars as a result of the 2000 tax law, I
knew I had to do something. That is
why I took action to introduce the bi-
partisan Gold Star Family Tax Relief
Act, which fixes the unintended tax
hike that many Gold Star families ex-
perienced.
A number of families across our
coastal Virginia district have shared
their stories about how this tax law
changed their lives. One woman, the
widow of a Navy SEAL killed in Af-
ghanistan, saw the taxes on her son’s
benefits rise by $4,000 in 2018, another
by $6,000, and another by $2,500.
What this tax bill did to Gold Star
families was wrong, but I have been
heartened to see so many of my col-
leagues join me in a bipartisan effort
to right these wrongs. As of today, we
have 155 cosponsors and received en-
dorsements of 20 veterans service orga-
nizations.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
DEGETTE). The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.019 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4145
May 23, 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
the gentlewoman from Virginia an ad-
ditional 1 minute.
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, with
this momentum, we can fix a problem
for so many heroic families and ensure
security for their benefits.
I include in the RECORD a letter
signed by 20 veterans service organiza-
tions in support of the Gold Star fam-
ily tax provisions included within the
SECURE Act.
MAY 22, 2019.
Hon. ELAINE LURIA,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN LURIA: As leaders of
the major veterans, military, and survivor
organizations, we are pleased to offer our
support for H.R. 2481, the Gold Star Family
Tax Relief Act.
Surviving spouses of service members who
die in the line of duty and military retirees
who die from service-connected wounds, ill-
nesses, or injuries are entitled to Depend-
ency and Indemnity Compensation (DIC)
benefits from the Department of Veterans
Affairs. Survivors who paid into the Depart-
ment of Defense Survivor Benefits Plan
(SBP) have a dollar-for-dollar offset of their
SBP benefits by the amount of DIC benefits.
To avoid the SBP/DIC offset, surviving
spouses often sign over SBP benefits to their
children to ensure the family receives both
earned benefits.
Due to a recent change in tax law, known
as the ‘‘Kiddie Tax,’’ Gold Star families who
were formerly obligated to pay 12 to 15 per-
cent in taxes on their earned benefits are
now being taxed up to 37 percent, leaving
them thousands of dollars in tax debt. This
important bill would rightfully repeal the
Kiddie Tax and reinstate military survivor
benefits to the previous tax rate.
Thank you again for your leadership on
this issue. We look forward to working with
you and your staff to pass this important
legislation immediately.
Sincerely,
Robert Wallace, Veterans of Foreign Wars
of the United States; Bonnie Carroll, Trag-
edy Assistance Program for Survivors; Har-
riet Boyden, Gold Star Wives of America; Jo-
seph R. Chenelly, AMVETS; Louis Celli, The
American Legion; Joyce Wessel Raezer, Na-
tional Military Famiy Association; Dana T.
Atkins, Military Officers Association of
America; Carl Blake, Paralyzed Veterans of
America; Keith A. Reed, Air Force Sergeants
Association; John Cho, AMSUS, the Society
of Federal Health Professionals.
James T. Currie, Commissioned Officers
Assn. of the US Public Health Service, Inc;
Norman Rosenshein, Jewish War Veterans of
the USA; Vincent Patton III, Non Commis-
sioned Officers Assn. of the United States of
America; Randy Reid, USCG Chief Petty Of-
ficers Assn.; Jeff J. Schloesser, Army Avia-
tion Association of America; Christopher
Cole, Association of the United States Navy;
Carol Setteducato, Chief Warrant Officers
Association of the US Coast Guard; Thomas
‘‘LPM’’ Howlett, Marine Corps Reserve Asso-
ciation; Kenneth Greenberg, The Retired En-
listed Association; Brian Dempsey, Wounded
Warrior Project.
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I urge
all of my colleagues to vote for the SE-
CURE Act and, in doing that, fix this
tax problem that has impacted so
many of our Gold Star families across
the Commonwealth of Virginia and the
country.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself 30 seconds.
Madam Speaker, how sad it is that
some are trying to make this a par-
tisan, petty measure.
The truth is, in 2014, in an original
draft of tax reform, this provision was
included by the Joint Committee on
Taxation to simplify the Tax Code and
to stop tax loopholes. That draft was
praised by my Democratic colleagues,
by Mr. NEAL, Mr. KIND, and Mr. THOMP-
SON.
In over 5 years, no one spotted this
unintended consequence. When it sur-
faced, Republicans and Democrats
came together immediately and re-
solved to not just fix it but to make it
retroactive.
Why make this a petty, partisan
issue? Our Gold Star parents deserve
better.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I have
no further speakers, and I am prepared
to close. I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I am proud that,
last session, Republicans and Demo-
crats came together to pass a retire-
ment security bill not once but twice
because we knew how important this
was. I was chairman, and I was proud
to help lead that effort.
This year, I am the proudest leader of
the Republicans on the Ways and
Means Committee to work with Chair-
man NEAL again to make it even better
to try to help families save.
But I am disappointed in the process
after it left the committee, through no
fault of Chairman NEAL’s.
Just 2 months ago, we heard Demo-
cratic lawmakers sit in that seat and
say they will work to restore the peo-
ple’s faith that government works in
the public’s interest. They said they
will pass laws and make sure our gov-
ernment acts in the best interests of
the American people, not entrenched
special interests.
It is unfortunate that every word
there was stomped on this week by spe-
cial interest groups that forced our
Democratic friends to make changes to
a bill that would help children and par-
ents with costs associated with
schools.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act allowed
parents to save tax-free for schools
from kindergarten through 12th grade,
and these bipartisan reforms that were
stripped from this bill would have al-
lowed parents to use their education
savings dollars for homeschooling and
additional kindergarten through 12 ex-
penses at public, private, and religious
schools.
This is money the families could
have used for books, online education
material, tutoring, AP classes, univer-
sity exams, and educational therapies
for students, including for kids with
disabilities.
Every parent blessed with a special
needs child or one who struggles to
keep up in school knows the constant
search to find the right learning tools,
the effective therapies, and the trained
tutors to help their challenged children
learn.
Apparently, for our teachers’ union,
that was wrong. They moved effec-
tively to block the ability of parents to
help their kids, whether they are gift-
ed, whether they have learning disabil-
ities, whether they need that tutor, or
whether a child is severely challenged,
mentally and physically, and needs
that help.
What do we have to fear from parents
who want to help their kids and use
their own dollars for it?
What would our Nation be if denied
the genius of Steven Spielberg who
overcame dyslexia as a child or CNN
anchor Anderson Cooper whose parents
hired a special instructor to help him
overcome his learning disabilities?
Where we would be without business
leaders like Steve Jobs, Charles
Schwab, Richard Branson, or Henry
Ford, all with learning disabilities, all
who have made amazing contributions
to our country?
Blocking these provisions is not
proeducation, and there is no way it is
prochild.
b 1030
It is beyond me how an education as-
sociation can oppose parents using
their own savings to help their child
reach their highest potential. But I
don’t fault them. I fault the lawmakers
who are beholden to them, who re-
moved these provisions.
This bill deserves support, and I will
strongly support it, but I am terribly
disappointed.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
As I close, I want to take a moment
to celebrate this truly bipartisan proc-
ess that brought this legislation to the
floor today.
First, I want to thank the Demo-
cratic members and Republican mem-
bers of the Committee on Ways and
Means, and, in particular, I want to
thank Mr. BRADY for his good work
along the way.
I also want to acknowledge that
there is more work to be done in the
leadership space in terms of retirement
savings, and I am hopeful that we will
be able to do that as well.
Let me acknowledge Mr. ROE, Mrs.
TRAHAN, Mrs. MCMORRIS RODGERS, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. WALBERG, Mr.
KENNEDY, Mr. BANKS, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
BUDD, Mrs. LURIA, and Mr. BACON.
Certainly, as I come down the home
stretch in closing, I want to acknowl-
edge much of the good work that has
taken place by staff members on both
sides as well. But let me cite on the
Democratic side, if I could—this was a
pretty big bill, and it required a team
effort. The Democratic staff, including
Kara Getz, Andrew Grossman, Beth
Bell, Aruna Kalyanam, Mary Petrovic,
and Lee Slater all did yeomen and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.020 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4146 May 23, 2019
yeowomen’s work in making sure that
we would get to this day.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
to speak in support of the ‘‘Setting Every
Community Up for Retirement Enhancement
Act of 2019.’’
H.R. 1994, the Setting Every Community Up
for Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act
helps Americans to save more for a secure re-
tirement and delivering a urgently needed fix
for Gold Star military families facing drastic tax
hikes under the GOP tax scam.
This legislation:
Makes it easier for small businesses to offer
retirement plans to their employees;
Ensures that hard-working home health care
workers can receive retirement benefits; and,
Eliminates the unexpected and unfair enor-
mous tax increases caused by the GOP tax
scam that were on the survivorship benefits of
children in Gold Star military families already
facing the extraordinary hardship of losing a
loved one.
The spouses of our fallen heroes sometimes
sign over earned benefits to their children to
ensure the family receives all benefits.
This bill will help Gold Star Families who are
being taxed unfairly by the Trump Tax Cut.
But because the new Republican tax law
brought changes to how children’s assets are
taxed, many Gold Star Families are required
to pay thousands of additional dollars in taxes
on survivor benefits—a crushing blow to fami-
lies who have already given so much to our
country.
Prior to the Trump Tax Cut Scam, money
given by the military to the children of troops
who died on duty were taxed at the same rate
as their surviving parents.
But under Trump’s tax cuts the changes in-
cluded in the December 2017 tax law over-
haul, those benefits were instead treated the
same as family estate transfers, which in-
creased the tax rate from no more than 15
percent to up to 37 percent.
This change significantly raised the tax bills
for many of those military families.
It is important to provide these needed
changes to protect Gold Star Families, and I
look forward to the additional changes that are
under way to help others hurt by the inequity
of the Trump tax hike for the very rich.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 389,
the previous question is ordered on the
bill, as amended.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of H.R. 1994 is postponed.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 223, nays
194, answered ‘‘present’’ 2, not voting
12, as follows:
[Roll No. 229]
YEAS—223
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Bacon
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crist
Cummings
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Finkenauer
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Granger
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Hollingsworth
Hoyer
Huffman
Jayapal
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kim
King (IA)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Marshall
Matsui
McCarthy
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Perry
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rose (NY)
Roybal-Allard
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Simpson
Sires
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Titus
Tlaib
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Yarmuth
NAYS—194
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Beatty
Bera
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Cárdenas
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kilmer
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pappas
Pence
Peters
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Ruiz
Scalise
Schrader
Schrier
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sherrill
Shimkus
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Spanberger
Spano
Steube
Stewart
Suozzi
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waters
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—2
DeFazio Tonko
NOT VOTING—12
Armstrong
Collins (GA)
Gohmert
Gosar
Herrera Beutler
Jackson Lee
Jeffries
Johnson (LA)
Kaptur
Kinzinger
Stauber
Stivers
b 1104
Messrs. CROW, VAN DREW, and Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ changed their vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mses. ADAMS and TITUS changed
their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the Journal was approved.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
f
SETTING EVERY COMMUNITY UP
FOR RETIREMENT ENHANCE-
MENT ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1994) to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to encourage retirement savings,
and for other purposes, will now re-
sume.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, I
have a motion to recommit at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. MCHENRY. Yes, in its current
form.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.022 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4147
May 23, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. McHenry moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 1994 to the Committee on Ways and
Means with instructions to report the same
back to the House forthwith with the fol-
lowing amendment:
Add at the end of title IV the following
new section:
SEC. 405. REPORTS BY TAXPAYERS ENGAGED IN
BOYCOTTS, ETC. AFFECTING ISRAEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 999 of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(g) BOYCOTTS, ETC. AFFECTING ISRAEL.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Any applicable person
shall be treated as a person that has oper-
ations in a country which is on the list
maintained by the Secretary under sub-
section (a)(3), and subsection (a)(1) shall
apply by substituting ‘that such person is an
applicable person’ for ‘such operations’.
‘‘(2) APPLICABLE PERSON.—For purposes of
this subsection, the term ‘applicable person’
means a person who knowingly engages in a
commerce-related or investment-related
boycott, divestment, or sanctions activity in
the course of interstate or international
commerce that is intended to penalize, in-
flict economic harm on, or otherwise limit
commercial relations with Israel or persons
doing business in Israel or Israeli-controlled
territories for purposes of coercing political
action by, or imposing policy positions on,
the Government of Israel.
‘‘(3) INTERNATIONAL BOYCOTT FACTOR.—For
purposes of sections 908(a), 952(a)(3), and
995(b)(1)(F)(ii), the international boycott fac-
tor with respect to such person shall be 1
(and subsection (c)(2) shall not apply).’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to trans-
actions after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
North Carolina is recognized for 5 min-
utes in support of his motion.
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, this
is a final amendment to the bill. This
amendment will not kill the bill or
send it back to committee. If adopted,
the bill will immediately proceed to
final passage, as amended.
You know the drill on a motion to re-
commit. I stand here before the House
today to get an affirmative vote that
we stand together against the anti-Se-
mitic notion of the BDS movement.
The BDS movement is an effort to
weaponize the world’s economy against
one simple State, one State, the great
State of Israel and the Jewish people.
They are trying to weaponize our econ-
omy, our dollars, against our only ally
in the Middle East that is a democracy.
This is an effort for us today—
today—to say that we will stand
against this movement. This move-
ment is about anti-Zionism. Anti-Zion-
ism is anti-Semitism.
Let us speak with one clear voice
today that we as the American people
will not stand for this economic war-
fare. We will stand with our ally, and
we will stand with the Jewish people in
the Israel State.
Why weaponize our economy against
Israel? To destroy Israel, to choke off
economic growth, to choke off eco-
nomic opportunity, and thereby weak-
en the State of Israel so they get rolled
into the sea.
That is unacceptable. That is the no-
tion of the BDS movement.
It may be polite in certain company
to say you boycott, you divest, you
sanction the State of Israel. It is not
polite to say that you are anti-Semitic.
But what the BDS movement says is
that you are anti-Semitic. What you
say by supporting the BDS movement
is that you are okay with discrimi-
nating against people because of their
faith; you are okay discriminating
against the Jewish people because you
don’t like—well, let me stop there.
This body has a long history of work-
ing together in a bipartisan fashion. I
have worked for 3 years to hammer out
a bipartisan approach to stopping the
BDS movement. That got rolled into
the bill that was passed in January in
the Senate.
Seventy-seven Senators joined to-
gether and sent a bill over here to the
House. We have waited 4 months, with
no vote on that bill, and it is not be-
cause we don’t have bipartisan support
to stop the BDS movement. We do. We
do.
In this Chamber, we have stood to-
gether in a bipartisan forum to stand
against hate and to stand against anti-
Semitism, but the leadership over
there doesn’t want us to have a vote on
that bill.
So, today, we are saying let’s have
the vote. Let’s stand up for the State of
Israel. Let’s stand against hate. Let’s
stand up against this anti-Zionism and
the anti-Semitism that underlies it.
Let’s stand up for our Jewish friends
and allies, and let’s speak with one
voice that the BDS movement is anti-
Semitism.
Vote ‘‘yes’’ on this motion to recom-
mit.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I claim
time in opposition to the motion to re-
commit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Massachusetts is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, the gen-
tleman really gave away his argument
in the opening sentence, when he said:
You know the drill on the MTR.
Yes, we know the drill on MTRs, how
they are being used to heap scorn on
complicated arguments, the dema-
gogue arguments that should be taken
up in a separate space.
But you know what else this is
about? For those of us who came
through the wards and precincts of
American politics, there is a difference
in politics between being cute and
being clever. This is cute. This is not
clever.
So let me just bring to your atten-
tion the following:
We have before us today the most im-
portant and substantive advance in re-
tirement savings in the last 15 years in
America. Understanding today that the
average Social Security benefit in
America—‘‘average,’’ meaning that
half the American people who receive
the benefit are below $16,000. We have a
chance to augment retirement savings
and open up more opportunities for
people to save for a retirement that we
all know comes pretty quickly.
b 1115
This has been well met in a bipar-
tisan manner. It was marked up in the
committee. And one Member said at
the Rules Committee the other night:
There is one sentence here, Mr. Chair-
man, over which we disagree.
Have we gotten to this point, in this
institution, where now one sentence
stops us from advancing good legisla-
tion? I certainly hope not.
There is another provision in this
legislation, as we proceed to the Memo-
rial Day recess, that ought to be crit-
ical in all of our minds. We fixed an
egregious error in the tax bill. We have
straightened out that issue, where fam-
ilies will not be taxed at the highest
marginal rate of the parents, but, in-
stead, we will recede to a previous pro-
vision that made sure that the sur-
vivors of those who were killed in mili-
tary conflict would receive a benefit.
That was important.
Let me just say to the new Members
on our side: This is a safe provision.
For years, I wore a bracelet for the re-
fuseniks who wished from Russia to
emigrate to Israel. There is no weak-
ness on our part in support of the State
of Israel on this side of the aisle.
You have a chance to stand up right
now for retirement savings for those
who have lost loved ones in military
conflict, to stand up for Tribal inter-
ests, to stand up for those who receive
scholarships, and to continue help for
those families who are in financial dis-
tress because they lost a loved one in a
military conflict.
Set aside the demagoguery, and turn
down this motion to recommit.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, I
demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of passage.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 200, noes 222,
not voting 9, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.025 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4148 May 23, 2019
[Roll No. 230]
AYES—200
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moulton
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—222
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Hoyer
Huffman
Jayapal
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—9
Armstrong
Gosar
Herrera Beutler
Jackson Lee
Jeffries
Johnson (LA)
Kinzinger
Stauber
Stivers
b 1124
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 417, nays 3,
not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 231]
YEAS—417
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jayapal
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.009 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4149
May 23, 2019
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—3
Amash Massie Roy
NOT VOTING—11
Armstrong
Chu, Judy
Dingell
Gosar
Herrera Beutler
Jackson Lee
Jeffries
Johnson (LA)
Kinzinger
Stauber
Stivers
b 1134
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
AUTHORIZING THE CLERK TO
MAKE CORRECTIONS IN EN-
GROSSMENT OF H.R. 1994, SET-
TING EVERY COMMUNITY UP
FOR RETIREMENT ENHANCE-
MENT ACT OF 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that in the engross-
ment of the bill, H.R. 1994, the Clerk be
authorized to make technical correc-
tions and conforming changes.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Survivors Protection
Act, critical legislation protecting
newborns from infanticide. This is the
50th time we have petitioned this
Chamber, and I ask for this bill’s im-
mediate consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, if
this unanimous consent cannot be en-
tertained——
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Missouri has not been
recognized for debate.
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
f
HONORING LIEUTENANT COLONEL
ROBERT EUGENE CHISOLM
(Ms. ESCOBAR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in recognition of an El Paso
hero, Lieutenant Colonel Robert Eu-
gene Chisolm, who was inducted yes-
terday into the 82nd Airborne Divi-
sion’s All American Hall of Fame.
Colonel Chisolm, known affection-
ately as Colonel Bob back home, is a
true role model of service to our Na-
tion.
A combat veteran of three wars,
Colonel Chisolm has a storied past. He
made a combat parachute jump into
Normandy on D-day and another into
Holland, where he would assume com-
mand of more than 80 men after higher
ranked officers fell, earning him the
only Legion of Merit awarded to a non-
commissioned officer in World War II.
He sustained grave injuries during
the Battle of the Bulge and went on to
command a company in the 31st Infan-
try during the Korean conflict. He
later led soldiers in the Joint U.S. Mili-
tary Advisory Group in Thailand and
as Chief of the War Games Branch at
Fort Leavenworth.
The All American Hall of Fame at
Fort Bragg preserves the legacy of
service and the iconic contributions of
the 82nd Airborne Division. It is fitting
that this courageous, lifelong soldier
be honored.
To Colonel Chisolm, whom I am so
honored to know, we thank him for his
incredible, courageous leadership and
service, and I offer him my heartfelt
congratulations.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 10TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF THE ENDING OF
SRI LANKA’S CIVIL WAR
(Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the
10-year anniversary of the end of Sri
Lanka’s decades-long civil war, a con-
flict that is estimated to have left over
100,000 people dead.
Today, I wish I could also rise in
celebration of a now-unified Sri Lanka,
where war crimes for this bloody con-
flict had been accounted for and transi-
tional justice had occurred; where land
used by Sri Lanka’s military had been
fully returned to its citizens and the
government was a true democracy, op-
erating with transparency and rep-
resentative of all its people, regardless
of ethnicity or religious beliefs. How-
ever, 10 years later, these essential
rights have yet to be fully recognized.
Mr. Speaker, while it is true that the
Sirisena government has made some
progress towards fulfilling its commit-
ments at the U.N. Human Rights Coun-
cil, I rise to urge the Sri Lankan Gov-
ernment to make meaningful progress
on all fronts to restore democratic
principles for all Sri Lankans and en-
sure the country can move forward as a
unified, prosperous nation.
f
IN CELEBRATION OF PEG MYRICK
(Ms. SPANBERGER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Speaker,
today I rise to celebrate my friend, my
constituent, and my role model, Peg
Myrick. I celebrate Peg here on the
floor of the House of Representatives
because her life and her example is one
I would like to share with you, my col-
leagues.
Peg began her career as a teacher,
reaching kids, impacting lives, but on
Halloween 2016, Peg was diagnosed with
colorectal cancer. With a life-changing
terminal diagnosis, Peg committed
herself to continuing her role as an ed-
ucator, now acting as an ambassador
for Fight Colorectal Cancer and edu-
cating others on the importance of
screenings and understanding this dis-
ease.
As she has battled for her life, she
shares her exuberant positivity with
everyone, and she demonstrates in her
daily life what it is to live for the
minute, what it is to show life and love
to those around you—to her family, to
her friends—and she demonstrates a
lesson I think we should all learn from,
which is that we are all in this to-
gether. Through her positivity and her
friendship, she endeavors to lift up ev-
eryone around her.
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF 19TH
AMENDMENT PASSING HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES
(Mr. RESCHENTHALER asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speak-
er, today I rise to recognize the 100th
anniversary of the passing of the 19th
Amendment in the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives.
One hundred years ago this week,
right here on the House floor, Members
began the process to recognize women’s
right to vote.
Pennsylvania, my home State, be-
came the seventh State to ratify the
Amendment, only 20 days after it
passed the U.S. Senate.
One hundred years later, we honor
the idea that our democracy works
best when everyone participates.
One hundred years later, we recog-
nize those who devoted their lives to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.010 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4150 May 23, 2019
this worthy cause, such as Susan B.
Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and
Ida B. Wells.
We all have different perspectives,
and by engaging with each other, we
can develop the best policies to benefit
all Americans and all freedom-loving
people around the world.
f
b 1145
REMEMBERING MAMA LILA
CABBIL
(Ms. TLAIB asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, earlier this
month, community members came to-
gether to celebrate the life of Lila
Cabbil, affectionately known as Mama
Lila, or Ms. Cabbil, a dedicated and
well-known activist and a member of
our community.
With genuine respect for her legacy,
we join with the community in cele-
brating Ms. Cabbil, remembering the
impact she continues to have on so
many people and hold her tight to her
family. She will be sincerely missed
and long remembered. Mama Lila lived
to serve and advocate for a better qual-
ity of life for her community.
Born in North Carolina and raised in
Detroit, Michigan, Mama Lila pos-
sessed a strong sense of justice and
willingness to stand against injustices.
She became involved with the civil
rights movement and was a close friend
of Rosa Parks.
Mama Lila soon became a prominent
leader in the movement, becoming the
president of the Rosa and Raymond
Parks Institute for Self Development.
She has been a tireless advocate for
economic and social justice, as well as
for food and water justice in the city of
Detroit.
In addition, Mama Lila has served as
an educator for younger generations,
advocating for greater social awareness
and sensitivity. She facilitated dia-
logue across cultures and built rela-
tionships in order to address system-
atic oppression and combat racism.
We offer our words of praise as a me-
morial for Mama Lila. May her family
find comfort in their faith and their
memories of this fine person and her
distinguished life.
f
CONDEMNING ATTACK ON
CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES
(Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, today I rise to address the
latest action my colleagues from
across the aisle have taken to blow up
what was a perfectly good piece of leg-
islation for the sake of scoring polit-
ical points.
The SECURE Act was a great piece of
legislation that would have allowed
Americans to expand the benefits of 529
education savings plans.
It would have also allowed students
with disabilities to be able to use their
529 savings accounts to pay for critical
therapy options outside of the tradi-
tional classroom. But Democrats
struck this commonsense provision
down before bringing the bill to the
floor today.
How can my colleagues across the
aisle justify limiting the resources that
children with disabilities have at their
disposal to grow and to thrive?
As a father of a child with disabil-
ities, I know how difficult it is to allow
disabled children to receive the serv-
ices that they deserve and that they
need. Having flexible payment mecha-
nisms to enhance these opportunities
to access therapies opens doors that
are otherwise closed.
Mr. Speaker, I condemn my col-
leagues across the aisle for their at-
tack on children with disabilities.
f
COMMEMORATING 19TH
AMENDMENT CENTENNIAL
(Mr. HECK asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HECK. Mr. Speaker, it was, in-
deed, 100 years ago in this very room
that the House of Representatives
passed the 19th Amendment to the
United States Constitution, granting
women the right to vote.
The vote was here, but the work was
out there, because the fact is the vic-
tory was due in no small part to the
countless trailblazers who championed
women suffrage throughout the dec-
ades.
Many of those trailblazers called
home that which I call home: the Pa-
cific Northwest. That included activ-
ists like Emma Smith DeVoe of Ta-
coma and Mary Arkwright Hutton of
Spokane. It was because of their efforts
that Washington State became the
fifth State in the Union to enact
women suffrage in 1910. These efforts
built the momentum to pass and ratify
the 19th Amendment nearly a decade
later.
But the point is, as we celebrate this
anniversary, let us not allow the
progress we have made beget compla-
cency; because the long, hard-fought
battle for equality and representation
spans generations and continues to this
very day.
Let’s continue to affirm those prin-
ciples as we recognize and commemo-
rate the 100th anniversary of women’s
right to vote.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
MIGUEL LORENZO HOLMES
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to remember the life of
Mr. Miguel Lorenzo Holmes, who
passed away at the age of 22 on May 6
while serving his country in Afghani-
stan.
The First Congressional District of
Georgia was home for Mr. Holmes, but
he was also stationed there as part of
the 48th Infantry Brigade Combat
Team in Savannah.
He was raised in Hinesville, in the
First District, close to his grand-
parents, where he attended Bradwell
High School. There, he entered the
Fort Stewart Youth Challenge Acad-
emy, which inspired him to join the
National Guard.
He passed away after being wounded
in Nangarhar province of Afghanistan.
This is a sobering reminder of the dan-
ger that soldiers face while working to
make our country and world a better
place to live.
I thank all who serve.
Mr. Holmes’ family and friends will
be in my thoughts and prayers during
this most difficult time.
f
BENEFITS FOR ALL
SERVICEMEMBERS
(Mr. PAPPAS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise on
behalf of thousands of American heroes
who may be unjustly denied the oppor-
tunity to serve the country they love.
Last month, the administration’s dis-
criminatory ban on transgender mili-
tary service took effect, telling 15,000
Active-Duty servicemembers they
don’t belong in uniform. That is com-
pletely unacceptable.
And now these brave patriots are
worried not just about the loss of a ca-
reer that they love, but also about the
loss of healthcare benefits they have
earned through years of service and
sacrifice.
That is why, yesterday, I was proud
to introduce the SERVE Act. My legis-
lation will enshrine into law a simple
pledge to every veteran that they will
receive the benefits they deserve no
matter how they identify or whom
they love.
Americans willing to lay down their
lives for our country are entitled to
honor and dignity. That is a basic
promise we make to everyone who puts
on the uniform, and we can never go
back on that promise.
f
CONGRATULATING BLOOMINGTON
SCHOOL DISTRICT 87
(Mr. LAHOOD asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAHOOD. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and congratulate
Bloomington Public School District 87,
in Bloomington, Illinois, on being
named the 2019 U.S. Department of
Education Green Ribbon School Dis-
trict and receiving a District Sustain-
ability Award.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.033 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4151
May 23, 2019
Bloomington Public School District
87 is one of only 14 schools across the
country to receive this award, which
recognizes schools and districts for
their innovative efforts to provide a
healthy, safe, sustainable, and efficient
learning environment.
This past February, I had the oppor-
tunity to speak with Bloomington Jun-
ior High School students and faculty,
which is reflected in this poster, to see
firsthand the innovative work District
87 schools are doing to facilitate more
resource-efficient schools.
Bloomington Public School District
87 continues to lead the way in Illinois.
Their resource-efficient practices let
teachers and administrators dedicate
more resources to student instruction
rather than operational costs.
Students deserve the opportunity to
achieve their full potential in the
classroom, and Bloomington Public
School District 87 continues to give
McLean County students that oppor-
tunity. I am grateful for their contin-
ued leadership and want to, once again,
congratulate them on this prestigious
honor.
f
SECURING RESTROOMS IN
REFUGEE CAMPS
(Ms. MENG asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. MENG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in gratitude that my bill, H.R. 615, the
Refugee Sanitation Facility Safety
Act, unanimously passed the House. I
thank my colleagues for their support.
I am especially grateful to Chairman
ENGEL and Ranking Member MCCAUL
for their leadership and support of this
critical bill to ensure the protection of
women and girls.
While refugee camps are intended to
serve as a temporary refuge from war,
refugees often find that they have been
followed by the very violence rise and
insecurity that caused them to flee
their home countries in the first place.
Women and girls, in particular, face
high levels of sexual assaults, and the
infrastructure of camps fail to protect
against these already-vulnerable popu-
lations.
Refugee camps around the world
don’t provide safe and secure access to
sanitary facilities, and those that exist
are often mixed sex, public, and with-
out locks or well-lit paths.
Many women and girls so fear using
the bathroom at night that they de-
velop urinary tract infections, are
forced to relieve themselves in their
tents, or are unable to change their
clothes for weeks.
Refugee camps have failed to provide
commonsense solutions to protect refu-
gees from sexual assault in sanitation
facilities. This legislation aims to fix
that by requiring U.S. refugee funding
to prioritize securing restrooms in ref-
ugee camps.
I now urge the Senate to take up this
commonsense, but critical legislation.
HONORING THOSE WHO MADE THE
ULTIMATE SACRIFICE ON MEMO-
RIAL DAY
(Mr. GUEST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, our Nation
has been built on democratic ideas.
Over the course of our Nation’s history,
these principles have been threatened
by forces that do not share our ideas of
democracy. Due to the heroic efforts of
the men and women of our military,
our Nation has stood against these
threats.
Memorial Day is the time to honor
these men and women who gave their
lives in defense of our country and the
blessings of liberty that we enjoy
today. This Memorial Day, I hope that
all will join me in remembering the
soldiers who laid down their lives for
this Nation and to celebrate the rights,
liberties, and institutions that they
preserved.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF CODE
TALKER FLEMING BEGAYE, SR.
(Mr. O’HALLERAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life of a selfless
hero and warrior, Mr. Fleming Begaye,
Sr., a Navajo code talker. He served
our Nation during World War II and
passed away last week in Chinle, Ari-
zona.
He served with his fellow marines
from 1943 to 1945 in the Battle of
Tarawa and the Battle of Tinian, some
of the bloodiest battles in the Pacific
theater. He was wounded serving our
Nation.
Mr. Begaye returned home and be-
came a businessman and farmer in
Chinle, where he raised his family.
We must never forget the service of
these brave code talkers. They sac-
rificed so much for our Nation.
My prayers are with Mr. Begaye’s
family, and I know he has been re-
united with his sweetheart, Helen.
f
CONDEMNING FEMALE GENITAL
MUTILATION
(Mr. PERRY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I stand in
support of H. Res. 106, which condemns
female genital mutilation, or cutting,
as a violation of the human rights of
women and girls and calls for a coordi-
nated response from the United States
Government and the international
community to end this horrific and ab-
horrent practice.
I am proud of the bipartisan effort
that has gone into this resolution, and
I want to thank Representative LOIS
FRANKEL from Florida for coleading
this resolution with me, which gives us
the opportunity to bring renewed at-
tention to the harm that FGM causes
innocent girls and highlights the ac-
tions needed to eliminate this unspeak-
able act.
As the House considers this resolu-
tion, there are over 200 million women
and girls alive today who have been af-
fected by FGM. This year alone, an es-
timated 3 million girls are at risk of
being mutilated. This despicable prac-
tice simply must end.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting this effort to condemn and
end FGM in the United States and
across the globe. There is much more
work that must be done to combat
FGM, and I hope that we continue this
bipartisan work.
f
CRIMES AGAINST UIGHUR
POPULATION
(Ms. OMAR asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. OMAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to speak out against the horrifying
crimes against humanity that China is
currently committing against the
Uighur population.
About a million Uighur Muslims have
been detained in so-called reeducation
camps in China. Reports from the
camps are scarce, but they indicate
that physical and psychological torture
is taking place.
These are the precursors to genocide.
We have the power to act.
According to reports in The Atlantic,
22 Uighur Muslims with no known anti-
American sentiments were detained at
Guantanamo in late 2001 and kept
there for 12 years at the urging of the
Chinese Government.
There are also known cases of
Uighurs on the suspected terrorist
watch list in the United States, and it
is entirely possible they were added,
unfairly, by the Chinese Government.
Reporting in The Wall Street Journal
indicates that U.S. companies, includ-
ing Coca-Cola, the Gap, and Kraft
Heinz, are materially benefiting from
the Uighur detention, and this must be
investigated and prosecuted to the full-
est extent of the law.
f
b 1200
REMEMBERING VALERIE
HORTENSTINE SHELDON
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to remember Val-
erie Hortenstine Sheldon, a beloved
community police officer who trag-
ically passed away at the age of 39 in a
traffic accident last week.
Valerie was the chief of police in
Raymond, Illinois, a small, tight-knit
community just a few miles from my
hometown of Taylorville. She served as
a law enforcement officer in three
neighboring communities before com-
ing to Raymond in 2007. She was named
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.035 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4152 May 23, 2019
police chief 91⁄2 years ago by Raymond’s
mayor, who said she ‘‘fit the bill as the
perfect small-town officer.’’
Those who worked with her said she
was always willing to do what she
could to help out the village. She
oversaw the Neighborhood Watch Pro-
gram in Raymond, and she was a Mont-
gomery County emergency manage-
ment volunteer as well as a member of
the Montgomery County search and
rescue team.
There was nothing more important
to Valerie than the safety of her com-
munity. Like most law enforcement of-
ficers, Valerie loved every day of her
job, and she loved serving the people of
Raymond. She made a profound impact
on so many, and I know she will be
greatly missed.
My prayers are with her two sons,
Jake and Isaac, her family, and the en-
tire town of Raymond during this dif-
ficult time.
f
NET NEUTRALITY
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, the
internet without net neutrality isn’t
really the internet. Net neutrality is
the way the internet should always
work.
Net neutrality is essential to every-
thing we need in our society and in our
democracy, from educational and eco-
nomic opportunities to political orga-
nizing and dissent. Keeping the inter-
net free and open for all Americans is
essential to the success of our Nation.
Earlier this year, we passed the Save
the Internet Act, which I voted for. I
strongly believe in working in a bipar-
tisan way to achieve and secure net
neutrality to ensure Americans can
thrive in the 21st century’s informa-
tion economy.
We must continue to work together
to ensure that every American has
unencumbered access to the internet in
a free way, in an open way, in an hon-
est way, and in an American way.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
GERALDINE ‘‘JERRY’’ EMMETT
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
PHILLIPS). Under the Speaker’s an-
nounced policy of January 3, 2019, the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. STANTON)
is recognized for 60 minutes as the des-
ignee of the majority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous material on the sub-
ject of this Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today with my fellow colleagues from
Arizona to celebrate the life of a phe-
nomenal woman. Geraldine Emmett,
‘‘Jerry’’ to most of us, was 104 years
old when she passed away on April 30,
2019.
Many Americans got the chance to
see Jerry sparkle in 2016 at the Demo-
cratic National Convention, where she
served as an honorary delegate and,
along with Congressman GALLEGO,
proudly announced our State’s votes
for Hillary Rodham Clinton.
But her devotion to the democratic
process started long before that. Part
of what captured the attention of the
rest of the country during the national
convention is that Jerry symbolized
just how far women in America had
come. She was born before the 19th
Amendment granted women the right
to vote. She lived through the civil
rights movement, the women’s libera-
tion movement, and the women’s suf-
frage movement.
She brought a sign to the convention
that read ‘‘Centenarian for Hillary,’’ a
reminder that you can be politically
active at any age.
Jerry represented the best of our
State. She graduated from Northern
Arizona University, and in her first job
she instructed children with disabil-
ities and chronic illness on the Navajo
Reservation.
She served as a public schoolteacher
in Arizona for 43 years and actively
promoted civic engagement and par-
ticipation. She was a pillar in Demo-
cratic politics in Arizona for decades.
Each of us here today had a chance
to witness Jerry’s fierce passion up
close. We wanted to take this oppor-
tunity to celebrate her life and con-
tributions to our community.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. O’HALLERAN).
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker,
today, I join my colleagues to remem-
ber and honor a true patriot and some-
one I was honored to know and call a
dear friend, Jerry Emmett.
Jerry lived a long, full life beyond re-
proach. She was dedicated to serving
Arizona. She was a teacher for more
than four decades. She was a pas-
sionate advocate for the rights of
women and underrepresented groups. I
mourned with our State when she
passed away last month at the age of
104.
Jerry inspired people from every cor-
ner of Arizona and across the Nation,
and that will be her lasting legacy.
I am in awe of what she has seen and
what she has accomplished in her life-
time. She witnessed history unfold,
from the suffrage movement to the
nomination of the first female Presi-
dent candidate.
At the national convention, the
world saw Jerry as we all in Arizona
knew her, full of life and zeal, and she
proudly represented Arizona for such a
historic moment.
I will never forget the wisdom she
shared with me over the years. She was
truly an inspiration to all of us, and I
never left her side without learning
something important.
We come together today to mourn
her passing but also to remember all
she has done for our State. My prayers
are with her family and with all the ad-
mirers and students she shaped and in-
spired over the years.
I will leave you all with a lesson she
shared with her son Jim: No matter
what is going on at the time, as long as
you keep hope and you keep believing
things will change and you are doing
your best to help change, it will
change.
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentlewoman from Arizona (Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK).
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, no
woman or person I have ever known
has appreciated the right to vote quite
like Jerry Emmett.
She was born at a time when being a
woman meant being silenced. She was
raised at a time when women had to
fight to be heard and worked 10 times
as hard to be taken seriously. She aged
to see women become prominent and
powerful, and she passed away the
same year that we had the most women
elected to Congress.
I remember well the first time I met
Jerry Emmett. She was very close
friends with the late Carolyn Warner,
our former superintendent of schools.
Jerry was always the teacher. I was a
newly elected State legislator at a po-
litical event, and Jerry and Carolyn
were there.
Carolyn Warner said: Do you have a
card?
I said: Oh, I don’t have them with me
right now.
Jerry Emmett said: Always keep
your cards in your pocket.
So, Jerry, this is for you.
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
GALLEGO).
Mr. GALLEGO. Mr. Speaker, I know
I speak for my colleagues when I say
that we all loved Jerry. How could you
not love Jerry?
Her spirit and unwavering optimism
and her love for our State and our
party made her the quintessential Ari-
zonan. She lived to 104 years old, and
she really lived. She lived in a way
that set an example for all of us. She
made every day count.
Her life spanned some of the momen-
tous times in our Nation’s history: the
Great Depression, the fight for wom-
en’s suffrage, World War II, and the
civil rights movement.
In 1914, when Jerry was born, women
did not have the right to vote. Who
could have thought then that a century
later Jerry would announce our State’s
delegates on the floor of the 2016 Demo-
cratic National Convention for the first
major-party female Presidential nomi-
nee in our Nation’s history. It was an
honor to stand by her side that day,
and it is a moment I will never forget.
In her 104 years, Jerry saw our State
and our country through some tough
times, but she never lost hope, she
never lost optimism, and her commit-
ment to bringing about the change she
believed in never wavered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.038 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4153
May 23, 2019
Her son Jim recalled that her biggest
lesson was: No matter what is going on
at that time, as long as you keep hope,
you keep believing things will change,
and you are doing you best to help
change, it will change.
Those words guided Jerry’s life.
Those words have inspired me and
should inspire us all as we keep fight-
ing for the things we believe in.
We will miss you, Jerry.
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the members of the Arizona
delegation for those beautiful words
about Jerry Emmett.
Now the rest of the country can see
why she was such a treasure to those of
us in Arizona and what an honor it was
today to honor her life.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
OUR SINGULAR AMERICAN
REVOLUTION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, it is
wonderful to hear the great tributes to
those who have served this country
well, as we just heard. In fact, we have
so many people to whom we should be
eternally grateful.
As Abraham Lincoln said, they gave
their last full measure of devotion for
the freedom of this country, not for
some wishy-washy government in
Washington, D.C., that can’t figure out
what it should do or not do, but for the
idea of freedom.
I heard more discussion again re-
cently about the Revolution. I have
read a few new books I hadn’t read this
year about the Revolution, the victory
at Yorktown, and other aspects of the
Revolution.
And, still, there are so many histo-
rians who wonder why there was such a
dramatic difference between the out-
come of the United States Revolution,
1775 to 1783, and the French Revolution
which followed.
I think the historians have it right
who have said that the key difference,
the reason the U.S. Revolution lasted
and was unlike the French, which re-
sulted in so many heads being cut off
and eventually resulted in a monarchy
again, the key difference was that the
U.S. Revolution was about liberty and
freedom.
It wasn’t about vengeance. They
weren’t out to cut off as many of the
British heads as possible. It was about
liberty. Unfortunately, too many in
the French Revolution, not all, but too
many in the French Revolution were
about revenge and not about liberty.
So the great efforts of great heroes in
France got hijacked. Many people lost
their lives, and then they lost their ef-
fort to have a republican form of gov-
ernment, as we have had.
A lot of people don’t understand the
difference between democracy and a re-
public. I think it is fair to say, as most
historians do, we have a democratic re-
public.
Democracy would mean the majority
always rules, and our Founders realized
that sometimes you can have too much
passion and not enough time for clear
reflection. You are better off, espe-
cially among a majority that really
doesn’t understand the total aspects
and factors involved in a decision, se-
lecting and electing representatives
with majority votes, except for Presi-
dent.
We set up the electoral college so all
States would have a say in who was
President, not just the few that had the
most people.
But all the other elections were
about a majority—so a democracy—
electing representatives to their gov-
ernmental entities locally, State, and
Federal. So, really, we have a demo-
cratic republic.
b 1215
It is interesting, as we saw this week,
the Speaker of the House getting ready
to go meet with a President of the
United States from the other party,
and he really wanted to talk about in-
frastructure and making this country
stronger.
I think probably most everybody on
both sides of the aisle has seen the sur-
veys regarding the permanent struc-
tures, the infrastructure of this coun-
try that helps tie us together as a na-
tion, and most of the scores are D-
minus, D, D-plus at best. And that is
about all you see.
We are better in some areas than we
are in others, but whether it is dams,
bridges, or highways, we have a lot of
infrastructure needs. And that is some-
thing that I would hope that we could
come together on and work out, as
those who went before us were able to
do.
We are told in Proverbs that, where
there is no vision, the people perish.
And it is interesting, when you see
towns that had community leaders
with visions who could see certain
things needed to be done to have a vi-
brant community 10, 50, 100 years later,
you saw how blessed that community
was to have leaders with vision.
You go to some communities, and
you find, gee, they haven’t progressed
very well. They seem to be eternally
declining and holding on to what they
have. Normally, you will find leaders in
a community like that who have been
spiteful, who didn’t want somebody
else to get credit for what was being
done. And they prevented a community
from flourishing for years into the fu-
ture just because they were small-
minded and had petty differences and
didn’t want somebody else to get the
credit.
One of my heroes, Ronald Reagan, is
often credited with the line that actu-
ally had been around for a great deal
longer than President Reagan, but he
used the line: It is amazing what you
can get accomplished if you don’t care
who gets the credit. And that has been
true since the beginning here in Wash-
ington and, even before Washington be-
came the capital, in Philadelphia and
New York.
But the Speaker announced at a
press event, before going over to the
White House to talk about infrastruc-
ture, that the President of the United
States had been engaged in a coverup.
We weren’t told a coverup of what. We
were not told what was done to cover
up.
‘‘Coverup’’ is a very ingenious term
to be using, almost as brilliant as the
term ‘‘collusion,’’ because neither the
term ‘‘collusion’’ nor ‘‘coverup’’ are
crimes. There is no law that says it is
a crime to cover up. There is no crime
that says it is a violation of the law to
collude.
So words like that have been chosen
and used and repeated over and over
and over so that the public thinks,
‘‘Oh, my goodness, crimes have been
committed. There was collusion. There
was a coverup.’’ Well, of what?
We now know that, after 21⁄2 years of
hearing about collusion with the Rus-
sian Government—and I am certainly
no fan of Robert Mueller. He did more
damage to the FBI than any FBI Direc-
tor ever, including the worst of J.
Edgar Hoover, when he was spying on
Americans.
We had Mueller’s FBI that took inno-
cent people, destroyed their lives. In
the case of the longest serving Senator,
Republican Senator, at the time, he
even saw to it that he was convicted
immediately before his election, and
then that cost him the election.
And then he was killed in a plane ac-
cident that he would never have been
involved in if Mueller’s FBI hadn’t
framed him for a crime he didn’t com-
mit and gotten him voted out of office
right before or at his election. That
was, of course, Senator Ted Stevens
from Alaska.
And Dr. Hatfill, who Mueller accused
of committing the crimes of murder
using anthrax right after the 9/11 at-
tacks. There was no evidence to sup-
port that Dr. Hatfill committed the
crimes.
We are told that, at one point—
though Mueller kept pursuing Hatfill
and questioning his neighbors, telling
the neighbors, through Mueller’s min-
ions, that Hatfill had committed mur-
der with anthrax and they needed to be
careful and report anything. They basi-
cally ruined the Hatfill family’s lives.
But, at one point, President Bush is
reported to have called him in and said:
There is no evidence that Dr. Hatfill is
the guy who did this. Are you sure? I
mean, there is just no evidence. And
Mueller stated: I am 100 percent cer-
tain.
So, when it turned out he was not the
guy that had been involved with an-
thrax and should have been cleared—by
anybody but Mueller—Mueller was
asked if he had any regrets about de-
stroying the life of an innocent man.
He said, ‘‘Absolutely not,’’ and never
apologized.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.039 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4154 May 23, 2019
Unfortunately, U.S. taxpayers paid
millions of dollars in settlement for
Mueller’s vindictiveness with no evi-
dence.
Curt Weldon stood right here at this
podium making speech after speech in
my freshman term. This was obviously
well after 9/11. I didn’t get here until
2005. But in 2005, 2006, he was talking
about a program through which infor-
mation had gotten to the FBI, and, ac-
cording to Curt Weldon—Able Danger, I
think, was the name of the program
that had identified some radical
Islamist terrorists, wannabes, and that
they were planning an attack in the
United States.
And according to Curt Weldon’s
speeches right here at this podium
where I am standing, the FBI, if they
acted, they probably could have pre-
vented 9/11, but they didn’t act.
And I kept thinking: I don’t know if
what he is saying is true. I was not fa-
miliar with the Able Danger program
at that time. But what I kept thinking
was: Gosh, these are really serious alle-
gations about the leadership of the
FBI. Surely Mueller is going to have to
come out and address these allegations
from Congressman Curt Weldon of
Pennsylvania. And the FBI never pub-
licly addressed those issues, not that I
have been able to find.
But they did address them. Mueller’s
FBI, in fact, raided Weldon’s adult
daughter, a lawyer, her office, early in
the morning. And, gee, somebody in
the FBI committed a crime, appar-
ently, and leaked it to the media so
they could be there when the warrant
was run early in the morning. And
somebody alerted Democratic
operatives. They had signs that morn-
ing around the office talking about,
you know, Curt Weldon is caught red-
handed, he is a thief, alleging all kinds
of crimes.
It turns out he hadn’t committed any
crimes. It turns out, some months
later, they notified the Weldon family
they could come get all the stuff that
Mueller’s FBI had collected during the
raid. They were told: It has never been
presented to a grand jury. We just did
the raid. No prosecution, no grand jury,
no indictment.
But since they did that 2 weeks be-
fore his election, he narrowly lost that
election.
So it appeared to me pretty clear
that Mueller’s way of responding to al-
legations that his FBI—and, in fairness
to him, he hadn’t been there that long
before 9/11, so he had plausible
deniability: ‘‘Gee, I just got there. I
didn’t know about Able Danger at the
time.’’ But, instead, what he chose to
do was have his FBI affect an election
adversely, causing a critic to lose.
So these are all part of Robert
Mueller’s background.
But even as much as he wanted to
ruin Donald J. Trump, later President
Trump, the guy that he begged for a
second appointment as Director of the
FBI, just shortly after he was begging
Trump for appointment to Director of
the FBI again and President Trump
turned him down, he jumped at the
chance to investigate and try to de-
stroy the life of the sitting President
who refused to hire him. And he spent
2 years, virtually 2 years, on it. I have
seen $25 million, $35 million that
Mueller spent.
Mueller took the unusual step of hir-
ing people to assist him in the Special
Counsel’s Office who hated Donald
Trump. Normally, when there has been
a special counsel of integrity, they
know they are going to be vilified, so
they are careful to hire people that ap-
pear will be even-handed.
I can’t imagine any person of integ-
rity actually hiring people who con-
tributed to the opponent of the person
to be investigated, who would go to
what they hoped would be her victory
party, who despised the man who got
elected. It is surprising he would go out
of his way to make sure that he hired
people that hated President Trump,
whom they were supposed to inves-
tigate.
But here again, the one good thing
that I can say about Robert Mueller
is—and he apparently served honorably
and well in Vietnam, so I thank him
for that service—the guy is consistent.
When he decides he wants to destroy an
innocent man, he gets after it.
Weissmann hated President Trump.
These other folks that hated Trump,
some of them still work at the FBI.
Many of them have been fired and run
out of the FBI or DOJ in shame. They
should have had more than that hap-
pen, and hopefully they will.
But there was no crime committed.
His report indicates that there were ef-
forts by Russians to reach out and try
to pull the Trump campaign into some
type of conspiracy, but nobody in the
Trump campaign took the opportunity
that was presented by Russia, and
there was no crime of conspiracy with
Russians.
And then, as we go along, the more
we find out, we find out that, actually,
it is a whole lot worse than Mueller in-
dicated. Mueller indicated no collusion,
no conspiracy, no crime that anybody
in the Trump campaign committed
with Russian agents. But if Mueller
had been the man of integrity that I
would have hoped, he would have inves-
tigated those who did conspire with
Russian agents.
Because, now, the information is
coming out that the Clinton campaign
had hired Fusion GPS. Perkins Coie
law firm was helping them negotiate
and work through some of these things,
using their firm’s name in the con-
spiracy—it sure seems like a con-
spiracy to me—as they hired a now-dis-
graced foreign agent who had worked
for MI6, Christopher Steele, to do
digging to try to find some tie between
the Trump campaign and Russia, any
kind of dirt they could get.
b 1230
They tried to lure Don Trump, Jr.,
into some kind of deal. They said, gee,
there is a Russian person who has all
kinds of negative information about
Hillary Clinton.
He agreed to meet and found right
away that this is not what it was rep-
resented to be and got out of the meet-
ing as quickly as he could.
Here again, Christopher Steele was
hired, apparently through Fusion GPS,
to dig up dirt, true or not true, about
Donald Trump. Fusion GPS hired this
foreign, disgraced intelligence agent to
do digging, using Russian agents.
Fusion GPS also hired the spouse of
one of the top FBI people, Bruce Ohr.
That was his wife, Nellie. She was
hired to dig up dirt, anything she could
in Russia about Trump.
I didn’t realize until more recently
that Christopher Steele was not even
traveling to Russia to dig up this dirt.
He was simply contacting people in
Russia, trying to find somebody who
had some dirt on Donald Trump.
Apparently, he has now recently indi-
cated: You know what? I guess there is
a good chance that the people I was
talking to in Russia who gave the false
information about Donald Trump,
yeah, they may have been working for
Vladimir Putin.
It appears the evidence is now start-
ing to come out, no thanks to Robert
Mueller and the tens of millions of dol-
lars he wasted, the years that he wast-
ed. The truth is starting to come out,
and it is making people who are in po-
sitions of power very uncomfortable.
We have heard Clapper and Brennan
making really inappropriate state-
ments for somebody who had been in-
volved in our intelligence-gathering
agencies. But it is appearing that it
was probably Brennan—we will be find-
ing out in the days ahead—who may
have asked England’s intelligence
agencies to spy on American citizens
involved with the Trump campaign be-
cause our intelligence community is
not authorized to spy on American citi-
zens. So there may be a wink and a
nod.
We need to get to the bottom of
whether our intelligence community
winks and nods, and says: Hey, we want
to spy on our own citizens, but we are
not allowed to legally. So how about
you spy on these citizens, and we will
spy on some for you in our country?
We need to know if that kind of thing
has really gone on. If it has gone on, if
there is a quid pro quo, we need to
know. We need to know if some of our
top intelligence officials have com-
mitted crimes. This is serious stuff.
It turns out there was no collusion,
no conspiracy between anybody in the
Trump campaign and Vladimir Putin
or Russia. But it is appearing more and
more that there was a conspiracy be-
tween people associated with the Clin-
ton campaign, Fusion GPS, Perkins
Coie, Christopher Steele, potential
agents of Vladimir Putin, to try to de-
stroy Donald Trump before the election
and after the election.
We expect to see more coming out as
some of the information that was clas-
sified is declassified. It appears now we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.041 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4155
May 23, 2019
are hearing, and we heard previously,
that an Australian Ambassador had
spoken to a member of the Trump cam-
paign, just tangentially part of the
campaign.
But what we have found out now is,
apparently, the Australian Ambassador
was manipulated through the Demo-
cratic effort to defeat Donald Trump,
recruited to tell a tangential member
of the Trump campaign that the Rus-
sians had Hillary Clinton’s emails.
Then they set that same Trump mar-
ginal official up by asking him ques-
tions: Have you heard anything about
Russia having information on Hillary?
He said: Well, yes. I heard that Rus-
sians had Hillary Clinton’s emails.
Then they used that information to
help them get a warrant to spy on the
Trump campaign. It was a total setup
by potentially our intelligence commu-
nity, potentially British MI6.
We have to get to the bottom of this.
People who have committed crimes
need to go to prison.
In the meantime, there is all this an-
imosity that has been stirred up
against Donald Trump. Now we find
out there was nothing to the collusion.
He knew that he had not committed
any kind of conspiracy with Russia. He
knew that this was all bogus. He was
hearing rumors that if there was a con-
spiracy, it involved the other cam-
paign.
What do you do? How do you act? I
would submit, you act exactly as Presi-
dent Trump has acted, frustrated. He
can’t believe that his own United
States Government is trying to set him
up and say that he committed some
crime that he never committed. He
can’t obstruct justice when he is doing
everything he possibly can to ensure
that justice gets done.
That is where we have been. We
heard the roadblocks, the things that,
oh gee, there was collusion. When that
didn’t materialize, then: Well, there is
a coverup.
No allegations other than just the
general term ‘‘coverup.’’
Clearly, efforts are being made in
this city to prevent President Trump
from being successful in getting legis-
lation through this House and through
the Senate that could become law and
help the country.
Even on issues of securing our bor-
der, President Obama talked about the
need to secure the border and stop ille-
gal immigration. Senator Clinton had
talked about the need to stop illegal
immigration and secure the border.
Most of the leaders on both sides of the
aisle have talked about that at some
point.
Why don’t we do it? Well, he would
get credit for keeping a campaign
promise, and apparently, it is more im-
portant to stop the President from
keeping campaign promises than it is
important to some to help the country.
What it reminded me of, as I thought
back—and I have been here 14 years.
Never expected to be here this long. I
feel like I am kind of going to a scary
movie. Get into it and I am sorry I
went, but I can’t leave until I see how
it turns out. I want to make sure that
we get on a proper footing here.
I know in the 14 years that I have
been here, I have not seen either party
work so hard to prevent the other par-
ty’s President from being successful.
As I majored in history, I have never
stopped studying history. American
history is my favorite. I have tried to
think back, okay, when was the last
time, if there ever was a time before,
when one party worked so hard to pre-
vent another party’s President from
being successful and helping the coun-
try?
I think it probably goes back to John
Quincy Adams’ days. John Quincy
Adams, he was the first son of a former
President to be elected President, and
he did not get a majority of the vote. It
ended up that he didn’t get a majority
of the electoral college.
It was thrown here to the House of
Representatives to decide, under the
Constitution. Henry Clay, so beloved
and respected here in the House of Rep-
resentatives, he decided to throw his
support to John Quincy Adams.
I have studied John Quincy Adams,
read a very thorough biography. I liked
it. I chose it because it incorporated
more of John Quincy Adams’ own jour-
nal, where they kept calling him JQA.
John Quincy Adams, apparently, kept
more of a journal than any President
we have ever had. He started very
young, and he went until the last few
weeks of his life when he could no
longer see to write.
I didn’t know until I read that, for
example, that his last night at home
before he came to the House floor to
give a speech against the war with
Mexico, because he was concerned that
that would perpetuate slavery longer,
that the reason he had run for the
House of Representatives after being
President was to try to do what Wil-
liam Wilberforce had done in England,
and that is to use his elected position
to fight to end slavery.
Wilberforce got it totally outlawed 3
days before he died in 1833. In 1830, that
is what Adams thought he was sup-
posed to do. That is why he ran for
Congress.
The night before, he had a massive
stroke. The next day, when he tried to
stand up and speak against war with
Mexico, he couldn’t see.
He couldn’t sleep, and he asked his
precious wife if she would mind reading
him any of William Wilberforce’s ser-
mons. She chose one. She read it for
him, and he finally dozed, listening to
William Wilberforce’s sermon the last
night he slept at home, before he had
his massive stroke on the House floor
here in the Capitol.
In 1824, John Quincy Adams was still
a man of integrity. He was always a
man of integrity. Some feel like it is
possible that he was the smartest
President we have ever had. Certainly,
he was one of the top-educated Presi-
dents we have ever had. He spoke a
number of languages.
One thing he had in common with
our current President, he is the only
other President to have had a wife who
was not born in America. Much like
President Trump’s wife, John Quincy
Adams’ wife spoke multiple languages,
very fluent. She herself was brilliant.
So we share that with the current First
Lady.
John Quincy Adams even wrote some
history books in German. His favorite
foreign language was French. He was
an amazing guy.
He knew he was a man of integrity,
and when studying his life, you figure
out that he was a man of integrity.
He asked Henry Clay for his support.
Henry Clay threw his support behind
John Quincy Adams for President.
That got him the votes in the House to
win the Presidency.
When it came time to pick Cabinet
members, President-elect Adams said
that he believed the person who would
make the best Secretary of State
would be Henry Clay.
Those people who were close to him,
who loved him, said, yes, he was right,
that Henry Clay would make a fabu-
lous Secretary of State, but that if he
appoints Henry Clay to be Secretary of
State, it will look like he cut a deal
with Clay in return for his support for
him for President, which gave him the
election. If he agreed to make him Sec-
retary of State, people would think he
made an illegal deal.
b 1245
He said: He is the best person for the
job. I didn’t make any kind of deal
with him. He threw his support behind
me. I never mentioned Secretary of
State to him. I never mentioned mak-
ing him a Cabinet official, but I think
the world of the man. I think he would
be the best Secretary of State. People
know I am a man of integrity. I
wouldn’t do an illegal deal to be elect-
ed President, so they just need to get
over it. He is the best man. I am going
to appoint the best man to be Sec-
retary of State. People who know me
will know that I never made a deal,
promised him Secretary of State in re-
turn for throwing his House support be-
hind me. That is just a lie, and I am
not going to be prevented from ap-
pointing the best man for Secretary of
State by my fear about what somebody
might think.
So he appointed Henry Clay to be
Secretary of State, and people got real-
ly upset: There must have been a deal.
He must have cut a deal with Henry
Clay. In return for Henry Clay’s sup-
port that won him the Presidency,
Henry Clay gets to be Secretary of
State.
Apparently, there was no deal, but
people thought there was. People felt
like: This looks terrible. It looks like
he made a deal. He must have made a
deal. We know Adams is an honest guy,
and so if he made a deal with Clay, he
surely would have kept his end of the
deal.
There was no deal, but there were so
many in the opposition party who were
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.043 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4156 May 23, 2019
mad about it, they just decided they
were not going to let John Quincy
Adams accomplish anything as Presi-
dent.
He was elected in 1824, sworn in, in
1825. His term was 1825 to 1829. He was
defeated by Andrew Jackson and de-
feated fairly easily because people
thought he had cheated to win by mak-
ing a deal he didn’t make with Henry
Clay.
During those 4 years—anyone can do
the research—he couldn’t get much of
anything done. There were even cases
of Members of this House who were of
the opposition party, the Democratic
Party, there were Democrats who had
actually written and sponsored bills
they desperately wanted to get passed.
When John Quincy Adams threw his
support behind the bills because he
thought they were a good idea, the per-
son who wrote the bill, sponsored the
bill, withdrew his support. He did not
want John Quincy Adams to get credit
for passing some important bill.
He had some great ideas. He wanted a
national observatory. He felt like it
would be good to have a uniform sys-
tem of weights and measurements.
That had not happened. He wanted to
create a naval academy for the coun-
try. He wanted to have a code, a
systemized national bankruptcy law.
Bankruptcy is mentioned in the Con-
stitution. There were finally some laws
passed before he was President, but it
wasn’t a uniform national bankruptcy
law as it needed to be.
He had some great ideas, but they
weren’t passed because people did not
want him to get credit. They were will-
ing to hurt the country to prevent
John Quincy Adams from having a
great victory.
That is what went through my mind.
Somebody may be able to find a case in
which one party did everything it could
to prevent a President from having any
big successes.
It is a little late. President Trump
got a great tax bill. It wasn’t as good
as I had hoped it would be, but it was
helpful to the country overall. He got
that passed, signed into law.
Hopefully, we are going to vote on
the Mexico-Canada trade agreement. It
is better than NAFTA was. Hopefully,
we will get that done, and we won’t
keep harming the country by failing to
bring that for a vote.
For Adams, there was a tariff that
was passed. That was about the biggest
piece of legislation passed during his 4
years, but it didn’t even get enacted
until Andrew Jackson took over as
President.
So Adams, a man of integrity, was
accused of making an illegal deal with
Henry Clay to get himself elected
President. The country suffered for 4
years. Those who despised John Quincy
Adams, they were able to hurt the
country for 4 years just to keep John
Quincy Adams from having a major
victory.
It is important to learn from history.
As we know from the old adage, those
who refuse to learn from history are
destined to repeat it. Of course, I also
grew up learning there is a corollary to
that, that those who do learn from his-
tory will find new ways to screw up. We
have seen both of those play out in this
country.
I am hoping it will come together,
and we will be able to pass some of the
critical legislation to secure our border
and to get some infrastructure built so
we don’t give a country to our children
and grandchildren that has infrastruc-
ture crumbling and with so much debt
that they can’t afford to rebuild the in-
frastructure. We already know that we
are the first generation in American
history that didn’t have as our driving
goal to give a country to our children
better than we had it.
The debts continue to skyrocket,
over $23 trillion now. We really need to
come together on these important
issues.
With regard to the President’s effort
to try to secure the border, I continue
to believe with all my heart, the most
compassionate, caring thing we could
do for the people of Mexico—and I was
talking to the Ambassador from Guate-
mala yesterday. I sure like him. Guate-
mala, of course, was the only country
to immediately recognize Jerusalem as
the capital of Israel, as it was 3,000
years ago, and should be and is today,
and will be for the future. Guatemala
had the courage to back us up on that.
Apparently, MS–13ers come mainly
from El Salvador, but Guatemala
wants to help. We ought to help Guate-
mala to help us. I hope that will be oc-
curring.
If we really want to be compas-
sionate for the people of Mexico and
Central America, the best thing we
could do is secure the border, cut off
the tens of billions of dollars every
year, maybe into the hundred-plus bil-
lion, that go to the drug cartels. It
funds corruption in Mexico. It is the
one thing that keeps Mexico from
being one of the very top economies in
the world.
They have fantastic natural re-
sources. They have a better location
geographically than the United States
does. They are between North America
and South America. They are between
two oceans. They have a great loca-
tion. They have some of the most hard-
working people in the world.
I also am thrilled that the huge ma-
jority have faith in God. I think we
could stand another boost of people
who have faith in God, a devotion to
family, a hard work ethic like we gen-
erally find among the huge majority of
Hispanic people from Mexico and Cen-
tral America. We could afford more of
that here, but we have to enforce the
law.
If we secure the border, Mexico ought
to be able to put down the drug cartel
corruption and become a top economy.
Then you won’t have people doing ev-
erything they can, risking their lives,
having their daughters raped repeat-
edly coming up here from Mexico or
through Mexico to the United States.
We can go back to having the kind of
vibrant tourism that we once had in
support of Mexico.
But there are efforts that are being
undertaken here in the House by
friends across the aisle who do not
want Donald Trump to have success in
helping the United States, and, really,
it would greatly help Mexico.
What is the result? Well, here is a
story from May 21, Washington Times,
Steven Dinan: ICE says Prince
George’s County released illegal mur-
der suspects.
The story says: ‘‘Two teens arrested
last week on charges stemming from a
horrific killing in Maryland were sup-
posed to be deported last year, but
local authorities didn’t turn them over
to ICE, the immigration agency said
Tuesday.
‘‘Prosecutors say the teens, Josue
Rafael Fuentes-Ponce, 16, and Joel
Ernesto Escobar, 17—suspected of being
MS–13 gang members—feared they
would be ratted out for an April rob-
bery, so they and an accomplice
snuffed out a 14-year-old suspected
snitch. They made her strip before
beating her with a baseball bat and
chopping her with a machete. The
girl’s body was found in a creek this
month.’’
This is in Prince George’s County.
‘‘U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement, in a pointed statement
Tuesday, said the crime could have
been averted’’—could have been com-
pletely prevented—‘‘but for Prince
George’s County’s sanctuary city pol-
icy.’’
That is what stopped it, or it is what
kept our ICE agents from preventing
the baseball bat and machete mutila-
tion of this 14-year-old girl.
‘‘Mr. Fuentes-Ponce and Mr. Escobar
were in county custody last year on at-
tempted murder charges for another
crime. ICE placed a detainer on them,
asking to be notified when they would
be released so agents could deport
them. ICE said the Prince George’s
County Department of Corrections de-
fied the request.
‘‘ ‘These individuals had dem-
onstrated violent criminal behavior be-
fore, and because they were released in
spite of the lawful detainer, they were
afforded an opportunity to take a
life.’ ’’
And not just take a life. They beat
her, stripped her, beat her with a base-
ball bat and then chopped her up with
a machete.
Thank you very much, Prince
George’s County, for your sanctuary
city. No telling how many people will
have to lose their lives while you defy
Federal law.
This article says: ‘‘ICE has placed
new detainers for both teens after the
murder charges. Prince George’s cor-
rections spokesman Andrew Cephas
said the agency didn’t release the teens
into the community. He said the Cor-
rections Department did have custody
last year but remanded the teens to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.045 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4157
May 23, 2019
Cheltenham Youth Detention Center, a
State facility, after a judge’s ruling.
‘‘ ‘Neither of these individuals were
released to the public from Prince
George’s County Department of Correc-
tions. They remained detained in the
juvenile facility until the disposition
of their cases earlier this year.’ ’’
Yeah, right. The cases were disposed
of, a little slap on the wrist for their
attempted murders. But this says the
county department does inform ICE—
or the Prince George’s County spokes-
man said they inform ICE about up-
coming releases but did not provide no-
tification in this case.
‘‘ICE says the county should have
given notification of any transfer out
of custody so the agency could lodge a
detainer with the new prison or jail.’’
b 1300
‘‘Under a 2014 Department of Correc-
tions policy, county jails say they will
notify ICE of impending releases but
won’t hold the migrants for pickup un-
less ICE has a signed warrant from a
judge.
‘‘Mark Krikorian, executive director
of the Center for Immigration Studies,
which advocates for stricter immigra-
tion controls, said the teens are at the
center of several raging immigration
debates.
‘‘Mr. Fuentes-Ponce came to the U.S.
in late 2015 as part of the surge of fami-
lies from Central America who have
overwhelmed the border in recent
years.
‘‘Under the Obama administration,
the family was paroled into the U.S. to
await its immigration case. Like many
other families, Mr. Fuentes-Ponce
didn’t appear for his hearing and was
ordered deported in absentia, ICE said.
‘‘Mr. Escobar, meanwhile, entered
the U.S. in 2016 as an unaccompanied
alien child, the other major demo-
graphic in the border surge.’’
That is one of the things we debated
for hours and hours yesterday in our
Judiciary Committee. The committee’s
majority wants to have even more
widespread amnesty than DACA, which
President Obama had said 20-something
times it would be unconstitutional for
him to do what he ultimately did cre-
ating the DACA program. He didn’t
even sign executive orders, I under-
stand. He had the Secretary of Home-
land Security do a couple of memos.
So he changed Federal law without
the bill being passed by the House and
Senate, without signing it into law. He
didn’t even sign an executive order. He
just had a couple of memos that
changed the policy.
‘‘Mr. Krikorian wondered whether
the killing of the 14-year-old girl would
receive as much attention as the death
of an illegal immigrant teen in Border
Patrol custody this week.’’
There was a teen who died from an
apparent flu.
‘‘That case prompted reporters to
question Mr. Trump about what steps
he would take.
‘‘ ‘The antiborder activists are quick
to blame the Border Patrol for deaths
that are out of their control, but
rationalizes the crimes committed by
people who would be removed if the law
were enforced. There really is a double
standard here.’
‘‘The D.C. area has long had a large
Central American population, making
it one of the top destinations for fami-
lies and unaccompanied alien children
involved in the surge. Prince George’s,
Fairfax, and Montgomery Counties are
among the top 10 locations.
‘‘More than 5,660 unaccompanied
alien children have been placed with
sponsors in Prince George’s County
over the past 5 years, topping Fairfax
at about 5,200 and Montgomery at
about 4,300.
‘‘The unaccompanied alien children
have strained schools and, security ex-
perts say, created a breeding ground
for gang recruitment.
‘‘ ‘Most of the Central Americans
coming across the border are not crimi-
nals, but gangs have used this flow of
people across the border to bring their
members into the U.S., and others who
weren’t gang members in Central
America have become gang members
here,’ Mr. Krikorian said.’’
So it would really help if we could
come together, if the President
wouldn’t have to be building the wall
without any help from a Democrat-con-
trolled House.
It is a shame they want to do all they
can to try to prevent the President
from protecting the country, but we
ought to learn a lesson from the dam-
age that was done between 1825 and 1829
during the Presidency of John Quincy
Adams, and we ought to come together,
get the border secure.
Let’s not have any amnesties until
the border is secure, then we can talk
about them, debate them. But every
time we talk about amnesty—I got a
picture this week from a friend on the
border, a 6-year-old and an 8-year-old,
unaccompanied children, yet we are
told: Oh, no. We are doing this DACA
amnesty because the children were
brought into the United States by their
parents, and so these children were
drug into the United States without
their choice, and so we need to give
them legal status.
And yet you have got a 6-year-old
and an 8-year-old that are coming in,
as my friend across the aisle said yes-
terday: Well, they don’t come in with-
out help. She is right. The parents
weren’t with them. The parents
weren’t with them, forcing them.
We also have been hearing that, since
there is so much fuss made about al-
lowing people to stay that had children
with them, the children have now be-
come a negotiable commodity. I have
been there when children were passed
back and forth between different
adults—you know, who is going to
claim these kids—and they are waiting
for the border patrolmen to get down
to them so they can answer the ques-
tions.
But the drug cartels have figured
out, the gangs have figured out—gangs
are often paid to bring people in ille-
gally, and the gangs get paid by the
drug cartels because, as we know,
every inch of the border of the United
States is controlled by some drug car-
tel.
So the gangs make money, the drug
cartels make money by bringing people
in. And since they have learned they
have a better chance of staying in if
they bring somebody’s kid with them,
then more kids are coming in now.
But it is interesting. I am wondering
how the debates will go when we say,
well, here is a person we want to give
amnesty to because their parents
dragged them into America, even
though there were no parents with
them. Well, so the gangs brought them
in.
Anybody in the drug cartel brings in
a child, that means we are supposed to
give them amnesty?
At some point, we have got to secure
the border. It is the most compas-
sionate thing we can do. Mexico will
become a great economy in the world,
one of the top, and the wonderful peo-
ple of Mexico, Central America will
have a better standard of living. Heck,
you might have United States citizens
thinking maybe they would like to go
work in a vibrant economy in Mexico if
and when we can help stop the drug
cartels with all the money that they
have got coming in.
Mr. Speaker, may I ask how much
time I have left.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Texas has 3 minutes re-
maining.
Mr. GOHMERT. Since we are going
into Memorial Day weekend, I am
thrilled Sergeant Derrick Miller has
been released. I testified at two dif-
ferent hearings for him. I am thrilled
he is released. He shouldn’t have been
incarcerated.
Lieutenant Clint Lorance, hopefully
that can be brought to an end and he
can be released like American Taliban
John Walker Lindh was.
But I want to finish by mentioning
Ross McGinnis. I promised his father,
Tom, I would never forget him, and I
haven’t.
Ross was 19 when he was in Iraq. Ross
loved the Army. Ross finished high
school in Knox, Pennsylvania, joined
the Army. He loved it, and his platoon
sergeant said everybody loved Ross.
Ross helped energize people.
Ross was a machine gunner up in the
turret of a Humvee going through a vil-
lage in Iraq. A grenade was projected
into the bed of the Humvee, and Ross
was the only one in a position to jump
out and save himself. He yelled, ‘‘Gre-
nade.’’ Ross saw the four people in the
bed crouch. Ross knew they were going
to die, so Ross jumped down, covered
the grenade, and saved four people’s
lives.
I went to Ross’ funeral, his graveside
in Arlington Cemetery, because two of
the four people Ross saved were my
constituents.
Ross’ sergeant and the two others
who made it back from Iraq for the fu-
neral came up after the ceremony,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.046 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4158 May 23, 2019
knelt before Ross’ remains, put their
hands on Ross’ remains, and as they
told me, they thank God for Ross
McGinnis, and they thank Ross for sav-
ing their lives.
We should thank God for all of those
who have served and protected us and
thank the families of those that lost a
loved one protecting us.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
STATEHOOD FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentlewoman from the District of Co-
lumbia (Ms. NORTON) for 30 minutes.
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, the
House will not be in session next Mon-
day, Memorial Day. That day has very
special meaning for the 700,000 resi-
dents in the Nation’s Capital.
The District of Columbia is one of
the oldest jurisdictions in the United
States. That means that residents of
the Nation’s Capital have fought and
died in every war, including the war
that created the United States of
America: the Revolutionary War.
I have come to the House floor today
to particularly recognize, on Memorial
Day coming, the denial of full partici-
pation in their government through
statehood, not only to the District of
Columbia’s residents, but to our
present Active-Duty servicemembers,
our National Guard members, our re-
servists, our many veterans and their
families who are residents of the Dis-
trict of Columbia.
Their service and sacrifice, along
with that of Americans across the
breadth of this land, but especially
their sacrifice, is unparalleled and,
therefore, deserves special mention:
unparalleled because those who served,
those who died, those who continue to
serve to protect our country do so
without full and equal rights in their
own country.
Later, I will be speaking about what
their sacrifices have meant to our
country, but as I come to the floor, I
start by paying special tribute to the
sacrifices that the residents of the Na-
tion’s Capital have made for 218 years.
I will be going, this coming week,
with the Mayor of the District of Co-
lumbia, with the city council chair,
with the entire government, to what is
called the D.C. War Memorial. This
pristine, beautiful memorial is dedi-
cated to those who lost their lives in
World War I.
It is the only memorial—indeed, it is
the only edifice—on The Mall that is
dedicated to people in one district, and
for very good reason: because that dis-
trict is our Nation’s Capital; because
those whose names appear on that me-
morial—I think there are 400- or so
names—died without full representa-
tion and died giving that kind of rep-
resentation, the kind of democracy, the
kind of democracy that others have.
b 1315
Our country, of course, prides itself
on its democratic traditions, but we
must remember that the country was
founded seeking democracy, not as a
democracy.
When it was founded, only White men
who held property could vote. That
means that the majority then could
not vote and did not have their demo-
cratic rights. So we have to, with some
humility, approach our own standing
as a democracy. May I remind us all
today that it took 132 years after the
Nation’s founding for women to get the
right to vote.
When half the population didn’t have
the right to vote, I am sure Members
came to this House floor saying what a
wonderful democracy it was. Well, it
wasn’t.
What is important about our country
is our aspiration to become the democ-
racy that the Framers themselves
hoped we would come—they hoped we
would become because even they had
created a constitution where an Afri-
can American was counted as three-
fifths of a man. That was a com-
promise.
They created this country knowing,
believing, that those of us who sit in
this House, in the Senate, and Ameri-
cans throughout the country would
make our democracy a real democracy
over time.
It has taken 218 years, and still
counting, for the District of Columbia
and its residents to achieve statehood,
including voting rights and all the
rights that come with equal citizen-
ship.
We are the only democracy in the
world where the residents who live in
the Nation’s Capital don’t have the
same rights as everyone else in that
country.
I am not pessimistic today. We are
just 5 months into the new Congress,
and we are already beginning to break
ground with those old traditions.
In March, the House passed H.R. 1, as
we call it. That is our all-democracy,
prodemocracy bill, still trying to
achieve full democracy throughout the
United States. I will say a bit about
H.R. 1 shortly.
It has findings, extensive findings for
D.C. statehood, which means, since it
passed by more than a majority, that
most Members of the House are already
on track and on the Record for D.C.
statehood.
I am grateful that Speaker NANCY
PELOSI 3 days into the new term issued
a very powerful statement, the head of
the House, endorsing statehood.
I am grateful to Senate Minority
Leader CHUCK SCHUMER, who unveiled a
sweeping proposal to bring democracy
to our country. His proposal is inter-
esting because it included only three
issues: combating voter disenfranchise-
ment through the Voting Rights Act,
establishing national automatic voter
registration laws; and the third one,
support of D.C. statehood.
I think that says a great deal about
what the priority of bringing full de-
mocracy to the Nation’s Capital means
to the Nation.
I am grateful to Chairman ELIJAH
CUMMINGS, the chairman of the House
Committee on Oversight and Reform,
who has announced that he will hold a
hearing on D.C. statehood and will
bring the bill to the floor this year.
It is worth hearing a few words from
Speaker PELOSI, to show the commit-
ment of our party to full democracy.
The Speaker said: ‘‘The right to vote
and to equal representation is the foun-
dation of our freedom and a core pillar
of our democracy. For too long, the
residents of the District of Columbia
have served our Nation in uniform,
paid taxes, and contributed to the eco-
nomic power and success of our coun-
try while being denied the full enfran-
chisement that is their right.’’
I am encouraged today because while
it takes 218 votes to pass the D.C.
statehood bill, already 5 months into
this new majority, we have 204 cospon-
sors. We are very grateful and very
proud of that very strong showing of
support for democracy in the Nation’s
Capital.
To elaborate a bit on the significance
of being in H.R. 1, which documented
findings for why the District of Colum-
bia should have statehood, to put that
in context, just look at the other mat-
ters that were in this enhancing de-
mocracy bill, because they didn’t have
anything to do with D.C. statehood.
And yet, D.C. statehood is in this en-
hancing democracy bill, which includes
such matters as supporting the adop-
tion of paper ballots to protect our
election infrastructure from
cyberattacks, increasing donor disclo-
sure requirements, strengthening cam-
paign oversight, expanding early vot-
ing and voting by mail, ending partisan
gerrymandering, requiring all Presi-
dential and Vice Presidential can-
didates to publicly disclose their tax
returns—until this President. For dec-
ades, others have, of course.
You can see those issues are about
enhancing democracy in the larger
sense. It says everything about the pri-
ority of this Congress that H.R. 1 also
includes making sure that the resi-
dents of the Nation’s Capital have the
same and, indeed, equal rights with
other Americans.
We are well on our way to national-
izing the fight to D.C. statehood, na-
tionalizing, because my one frustra-
tion, that we have faced and continue
to face, that most residents, most
Americans, think that those who live
in their Nation’s Capital have the same
rights they have. That is what I mean
by the need to nationalize this impor-
tant issue.
What polls show is that it is incon-
ceivable to the average American that
there would be any Americans who
don’t have the same rights that they
have. Of course, that is the case.
That is why, periodically, I come to
the floor to make sure and remind the
House of this anomaly, that we are the
only country that does not give those
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.048 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4159
May 23, 2019
who live in its capital the same rights
as others in their country.
I am heartened by the many national
organizations that, as I speak, have
come on to endorse statehood for the
District of Columbia.
As I was, literally, coming to the
House floor, a staff member rushed be-
hind me to add another one. It is up to
20.
I will bet by the time I get back to
my office in the Rayburn Building, the
number will be even beyond 20 because
they have been coming on ever since
we put out the word. They represent
millions of people and can help Ameri-
cans to know what they do not know.
These are the national organizations
that by the time I came to the House
floor had endorsed D.C. statehood:
Common Cause, Public Citizen, Na-
tional Active and Retired Employees
Association, Sierra Club, People For
the American Way, International Asso-
ciation of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers, Planned Parenthood, Demand
Justice, Indivisible, Americans for
Democratic Action, Demos, NORML,
NETWORK, Stand Up America, De-
mand Progress, United Food and Com-
mercial Workers, Democratic Coali-
tion, National LGBTQ Task Force Ac-
tion Fund, and Human Rights Cam-
paign.
These are organizations whose num-
bers go into the many millions that
can help us by making sure Americans
know what many would be ashamed to
find out, that they live in a country
where people who live in their Nation’s
Capital don’t have the same rights
they have.
What a diverse city this is, about half
Black, half White, many high-income
people—yes, its share of poor people
like every city—top 10 in economic
growth, bursting at the seams with
more people moving in every day, the
kind of National Capital Americans
have every right to be proud of.
Until Democrats captured this
House, even our self-government, the
right to govern ourselves in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, was under attack. I
had to fight off bills that eliminate im-
portant laws in the District of Colum-
bia. What did they have to say about
our local laws?
For example, a favorite has been at-
tempts to wipe out all the gun safety
laws in the District of Columbia. I have
been able to defeat these bills—almost
all of them—even while I have been in
the minority.
But why should I have to come to
this floor to say to Members of the
House that these are local matters?
This is a national body. Stay out of
our business.
There were laws that would have re-
pealed our Local Budget Autonomy
Act, where we deal only with spending
matters resident alone pay for.
A law they tried to erase a rec-
reational marijuana. Ten states allow
recreational marijuana, which the
House has allowed.
They tried to wipe out abortions for
low-income women. They tried to wipe
out our Death with Dignity Act. These,
of course, are rather progressive mat-
ters.
Death with dignity, for example,
after seeking the advice of a physician,
and with only 6 months to live, allows
people to take their own lives, with
pharmaceuticals provided by a physi-
cian. That is not the case for every ju-
risdiction.
By the way, the majority of Amer-
ican people support this right. But if
you disagree with it, Congress can’t do
anything about it anywhere else, only
in the District of Columbia.
I could name several other bills. We
were able to defeat all of these bills
away except two. One is the marijuana
commercialization act. We were able to
save the ability to possess 2 ounces but
not to do what those 10 states already
do, which is to regulate it and tax it.
Marijuana should be regulated, not
just sold. Why does the House not want
that? Of course, to sell and legally tax
marijuana, if you don’t do that, people
will smoking marijuana anyway.
We have six universities here. Do you
think people aren’t smoking pot?
The Republican priority has always
been local control. That is their
mantra. They even want the Federal
Government often out of the business
that the Federal Government must be
in.
We have indicated that we would like
that mantra to apply to the District of
Columbia as well.
b 1330
At the same time, we are on a dual
track. At the same time that we are
trying to get statehood, we have not
gotten full control of our own city be-
cause the Congress, as I have just indi-
cated, can intervene.
So, at the same time that we are try-
ing to get statehood, which would do
the whole thing, we are also trying to
use the Home Rule Act simply to get
what every other jurisdiction has: a
local prosecutor, for example; the right
to declare clemency for local residents,
local control of local courts, etc.
So we are on two tracks: statehood,
which would give us the whole set of
rights that the rest of the country has;
and using the Home Rule Act—and the
District has had home rule since 1973—
simply getting the kinds of rights that
do not require statehood but that other
jurisdictions have passed locally.
I have gotten three bills passed this
term. I got them passed in the first 3
months. And note that, even when I
was in the minority in the last Con-
gress—I was voted the most effective
Democrat in the Congress. The com-
mentary noted that NORTON—does not
have the final vote on the House floor.
I got back my vote in the Committee
of the Whole. I now vote for the Dis-
trict of Columbia when the House
meets in the Committee of the Whole.
I was able to get that right when I first
came to Congress.
And if this is believable, when the
Democrats lost the House, Republicans
took back even that vote, the DC vote
in the Committee of the Whole, even
though it had been approved by the
courts of the United States. It was
granted by the House; therefore, it
could be taken away by the House. It
was taken away by the House before.
Getting full and equal rights for the
District of Columbia is personal to me
because I am a native Washingtonian—
indeed, a third-generation Washing-
tonian.
I cannot help but tell the story of my
great-grandfather, a runaway slave
from Virginia. He came to the District
of Columbia when they still had slav-
ery, when, of course, it didn’t have any
home rule or statehood.
The District was being built. This
Capitol building was being built. Work
was being done on the streets, and peo-
ple were anxious to hire anybody they
could find. Richard Holmes got a job
working on the streets of the District
of Columbia.
And passed down to my family is
what happened to Richard Holmes.
Richard Holmes that continues to in-
spire me, even as I am inspired by our
veterans as we approach Memorial
Day.
Richard Holmes was working on the
streets of the District of Columbia,
where slave owners roamed the streets,
because, after all, valuable property
was lost if there was a runaway slave
that could be identified.
A man walked up behind Richard
Holmes and called out the name ‘‘Rich-
ard.’’ Richard Holmes kept digging.
Then the slave owner went over to the
straw boss and said, ‘‘That is my slave.
I have come to take him back.’’ And
the straw boss said, ‘‘Well, that man
didn’t answer to that name,’’ and he let
Richard Holmes stay.
I think Richard Holmes must have
been a good worker, so he just wasn’t
going to give him up. I don’t know
that. All I know is that he did not give
him up, and the Holmes family has
been very grateful ever since.
This has been the most important
destination, not only for people like
my great-grandfather who simply
walked off of a plantation in Virginia.
In telling the story, you will note that
I didn’t speak about Richard Holmes as
some heroic runaway slave, because
that is not how the story was told to
us. We were told that Richard Holmes
simply walked off that plantation when
nobody was looking and walked all the
way to the District of Columbia from
way down in Virginia.
In a real sense, I feel like I am walk-
ing. I am continuing in his footsteps as
I strive to help my city become the 51st
State, no longer be a city where there
is taxation without representation.
Imagine the outrage. This is not a
Congress which likes taxes, particu-
larly my Republican friends. Well, a lot
of us have owned up to the fact that it
became a great country because all of
us pitched in, including paying Federal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.050 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4160 May 23, 2019
taxes. But imagine paying Federal
taxes when you don’t have anything to
say about the amount of those taxes or
anything else about those taxes.
Imagine being number one per capita
in Federal taxes to support your coun-
try and yet having no final vote on this
House floor when those taxes are
raised, when, for example, there has
been a massive tax cut that went to
the great benefit, as it turned out, of
corporations and the very well-off.
For the District of Columbia, I could
speak on that bill but I could not vote
on that bill, even though I represent
those who will pay the highest amount
in taxes pursuant to that bill.
So taxation without representation
is not simply a slogan for the people I
represent. It has real meaning, as real
for us as it did for the Framers. They
were willing to risk treasonous acts in
order not to pay taxes without rep-
resentation.
As the United States stands, today as
a Nation, we are in violation of treaties
the United States has signed because
we do not grant full and equal rights to
the residents of the Nation’s Capital.
For example, our country, in 1977,
signed the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights. The Human
Rights Committee, which has oversight
over that treaty, has since said that
the United Nations delegation to the
U.N. ‘‘ . . . remains concerned that
residents of the District of Columbia do
not enjoy full representation in Con-
gress, a restriction which does not
seem to be compatible with article 25
of the covenant,’’ the covenant that
the United States has signed, in viola-
tion of all our country stands for and
in violation of international law.
So, as this Memorial Day comes, I
come to the floor simply to remind my
colleagues of what it means for those
of us who live in our Nation’s Capital.
Even though on this Memorial Day we
recall the Memorial Days that have
gone ahead, commemorating the resi-
dents of this city who have fought and
died in every war, I believe we should
particularly note the first African
American general, who happened to be
born and raised in the District of Co-
lumbia; the first African American Air
Force general, who was born and raised
in the District of Columbia; the first
African American Naval Academy
graduate, born and raised in the Dis-
trict of Columbia; and the first African
American Air Force Academy grad-
uate, born and raised in the District of
Columbia.
I cite these African Americans be-
cause they served, all of them, when
the District was a segregated city. And
when I say the District was a seg-
regated city, understand that this was
a majority-White city and has been a
majority-White city for most of its 218
years as a city.
And yet African Americans and
Whites have been treated in exactly
the same way, as second-class and per-
haps worse.
On Monday, the last Monday in May,
Memorial Day will mean perhaps more
to the residents of our Nation’s Capital
than anywhere else, and particularly to
our veterans who are still living here.
We cannot help but remember that in
World War I the District lost more
lives than three States.
And, therefore, on Memorial Day,
2019, as I remember at our casualties, I
speak on this House floor for every
resident, for every veteran, and, I be-
lieve, for every American when I say
all Americans, those who live, those
who have died, and those who continue
to serve, are entitled to full and equal
rights.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Ms. JACKSON LEE (at the request of
Mr. HOYER) for today on account of
business in the district.
Mr. JEFFRIES (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for today on account of com-
mencement address.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 1 o’clock and 41 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Fri-
day, May 24, 2019, at 11 a.m.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas: Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology. H.R. 1716. A
bill to direct the Secretary of Commerce,
acting through the Administrator of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, to conduct coastal community vulner-
ability assessments related to ocean acidifi-
cation, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–81). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas: Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology. H.R. 988. A
bill to provide for a study by the Ocean Stud-
ies Board of the National Academies of
Science examining the impact of ocean acidi-
fication and other stressors in estuarine en-
vironments; with amendments (Rept. 116–82
Pt. 1). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Ms. KAPTUR: Committee on Appropria-
tions. H.R. 2960. A bill Making appropria-
tions for energy and water development and
related agencies for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020, and for other purposes
(Rept. 116–83). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. VISCLOSKY: Committee on Appro-
priations. H.R. 2968. A bill Making appropria-
tions for the Department of Defense for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes (Rept. 116–84). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Natural Resources dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 988 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
CONSENSUS CALENDAR
Under clause 7 of rule XV, the fol-
lowing motion was filed with the Clerk:
Motion No. 3, May 23, 2019 by Mr.
SCHRADER on H.R. 693.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mrs. MCBATH (for herself and Mr.
STEUBE):
H.R. 2938. A bill to exempt from the cal-
culation of monthly income certain benefits
paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs
and the Department of Defense; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. NAPOLITANO (for herself, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. ROUDA,
Mr. CARBAJAL, and Mr. GARAMENDI):
H.R. 2939. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to clarify the use of certain
taxes and revenues; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself and Mrs. WALORSKI):
H.R. 2940. A bill to extend the program of
block grants to States for temporary assist-
ance for needy families and related programs
through September 30, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. HOULAHAN (for herself, Mr.
CISNEROS, and Ms. STEFANIK):
H.R. 2941. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Defense and the Secretaries of the military
departments to encourage female members
who separate or retire from the Armed
Forces during fiscal year 2020 to participate
in the Women’s Health Transition Training
pilot program of the Department of Veterans
Affairs, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, and in addition
to the Committee on Armed Services, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CISNEROS (for himself and Ms.
HOULAHAN):
H.R. 2942. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out the Women’s
Health Transition Training pilot program
through at least fiscal year 2020, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CISNEROS:
H.R. 2943. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to make all fact sheets of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in
English and Spanish; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. CISNEROS:
H.R. 2944. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to establish a public-private ex-
change program for the acquisition work-
force,; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
H.R. 2945. A bill to provide for the indefi-
nite duration of certain military land with-
drawals, to improve the management of
lands currently subject to such withdrawals,
to make the management of such lands more
transparent, and for other purposes; to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY7.052 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4161
May 23, 2019
Committee on Natural Resources, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Armed Services,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself and Mr.
SMITH of New Jersey):
H.R. 2946. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to provide for certain
additional means of qualification for the
Visa Waiver Program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself and
Mr. LAMALFA):
H.R. 2947. A bill to require the Secretary of
Defense, in consultation with the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs, to develop guidelines re-
garding the use by the Secretaries of the
military departments and the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs of unofficial sources of in-
formation to determine the eligibility of a
member or former member of the Armed
Forces for benefits and decorations when the
member’s service records are incomplete be-
cause of damage to the records, including
records damaged by a 1973 fire at the Na-
tional Personnel Records Center in St.
Louis, Missouri; to the Committee on Armed
Services, and in addition to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself and
Mr. WALTZ):
H.R. 2948. A bill to designate the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs community-based
outpatient clinic in St. Augustine, Florida,
as the ‘‘Leo C. Chase Jr. Department of Vet-
erans Affairs Clinic‘‘; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself and Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina):
H.R. 2949. A bill to provide for oversight of
North Korea policy, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in
addition to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DEAN:
H.R. 2950. A bill to amend the Federal
Funding Accountability and Transparency
Act of 2006 to require full disclosure for enti-
ties receiving Federal funding; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. BARRAGÁN (for herself and
Ms. KELLY of Illinois):
H.R. 2951. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for coverage
of dental services under the Medicare pro-
gram; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. RYAN (for himself, Mr.
PALAZZO, Mr. ARMSTRONG, and Mr.
WELCH):
H.R. 2952. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to authorize concurrent use of
Department of Defense Tuition Assistance
and Montgomery GI Bill-Selected Reserve
benefits, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. RYAN (for himself and Mr.
PALAZZO):
H.R. 2953. A bill to amend title 37, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of a
military department to pay an officer in a
reserve component of a uniformed service
aviation incentive pay at the same rate as an
officer in the regular component of that uni-
formed service; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Mr. PALAZZO (for himself and Mr.
RYAN):
H.R. 2954. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to ensure that an order to serve
on active duty under section 12304b of that
title is treated the same as other orders to
serve on active duty for determining the eli-
gibility of members of the uniformed serv-
ices for early retirement pay; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. PALMER (for himself, Mr.
BIGGS, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. FLORES,
Mr. POSEY, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. BABIN, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Mr. STEWART, Mr.
ROUZER, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. LAMBORN,
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. BAIRD,
Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr. BUCK, Mr.
GOHMERT, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. WALK-
ER, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr.
BROOKS of Alabama, Mr. DUNN, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee, Mr. NORMAN, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Mr. ALLEN, Mr.
CRAWFORD, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr.
DESJARLAIS, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr.
BUDD, Mr. YOHO, Mr. WALBERG, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio,
Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. CLOUD, Mr. JOHN
W. ROSE of Tennessee, and Mr.
BERGMAN):
H.R. 2955. A bill to prevent the issuance of
grants to entities that impose an unreason-
able condition on or unjust discrimination
against an air carrier operating pursuant to
a contract with a Government agency, in-
cluding United States Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure.
By Mr. CALVERT (for himself, Mr.
AGUILAR, and Mr. TAKANO):
H.R. 2956. A bill to provide for the estab-
lishment of the Western Riverside County
Wildlife Refuge; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. BYRNE (for himself and Mr.
VAN DREW):
H.R. 2957. A bill to prevent prisoners who
have been convicted of terrorism related of-
fenses from being eligible for early release,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
and Mrs. NAPOLITANO):
H.R. 2958. A bill to increase the recruit-
ment and retention of school-based mental
health services providers by low-income
local educational agencies; to the Committee
on Education and Labor.
By Mr. SWALWELL of California:
H.R. 2959. A bill to remove assault weapons
and large capacity ammunition feeding de-
vices from circulation, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LARSEN of Washington (for
himself, Mr. COOK, Mr. COLE, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, Ms. MOORE, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
RUIZ, and Mr. SOTO):
H.R. 2961. A bill to reaffirm that certain
land has been taken into trust for the benefit
of the Samish Indian Nation, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. WRIGHT:
H.R. 2962. A bill to amend chapter 1 of title
23, United States Code, to condition the re-
ceipt of certain highway funding by States
on the enactment of certain laws to prevent
the use of automated traffic enforcement
systems; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. WRIGHT:
H.R. 2963. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to require States to provide no-
tification of the use of automated traffic en-
forcement systems under highway safety
programs; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself and Mr. REED):
H.R. 2964. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to include foster care tran-
sition youth as members of targeted groups
for purposes of the work opportunity credit;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself, Mrs. WALORSKI, Ms.
BASS, and Mr. BACON):
H.R. 2965. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for a refundable
adoption tax credit; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself and Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI):
H.R. 2966. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide formula grants
to States to improve higher education oppor-
tunities for foster youth and homeless
youth, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 2967. A bill to provide greater support
for grandfamilies and older caretaker rel-
atives; to the Committee on Ways and
Means, and in addition to the Committees on
Education and Labor, Energy and Commerce,
and Financial Services, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 2969. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1401 1st Street North in Winter Haven, Flor-
ida, as the ‘‘Althea Margaret Daily Mills
Post Office Building‘‘; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. ADAMS (for herself and Mrs.
HARTZLER):
H.R. 2970. A bill to direct the Secretary of
the Army to place in Arlington National
Cemetery a monument honoring Army Secu-
rity Agency veterans of World War II, the
Korean conflict, and the Vietnam Era, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 2971. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase and expand the
deduction for qualified business income; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BRINDISI (for himself and Mrs.
WALORSKI):
H.R. 2972. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to improve the communica-
tions of the Department of Veterans Affairs
relating to services available for women vet-
erans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for him-
self, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. MCCLIN-
TOCK, and Mr. GOSAR):
H.R. 2973. A bill to require the Director of
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
to submit annual reports regarding certain
demographic information on aliens arrested;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, and Ms.
JACKSON LEE):
H.R. 2974. A bill to improve the financial
literacy of secondary school students; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23MY7.100 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4162 May 23, 2019
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself, Mr. VELA, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
WEXTON, Ms. WILD, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. LOEBSACK,
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. SHER-
MAN, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. EVANS, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr.
ALLRED, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. AGUILAR,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. BASS, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. BERA, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER,
Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Mr. CASTEN of Il-
linois, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. CLARK of Massachu-
setts, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
CLAY, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
COOPER, Mr. COX of California, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. CROW, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
CUMMINGS, Mr. MORELLE, Mrs. DAVIS
of California, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of
Illinois, Ms. DEAN, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms.
DEGETTE, Ms. DELAURO, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. DELGADO, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs. DINGELL,
Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mrs.
FLETCHER, Mr. FOSTER, Ms. FRANKEL,
Ms. FUDGE, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Ms.
SCANLON, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. GREEN of
Texas, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. HECK,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Ms. HILL of
California, Mr. HIMES, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. HOULAHAN, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Ms. KAPTUR, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
KIND, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. LAWSON
of Florida, Ms. LEE of California,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Ms. MATSUI, Mrs. MCBATH,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
MEEKS, Ms. MENG, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
MOULTON, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Mr. NADLER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Ms. OMAR, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. PETERS, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. POCAN, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Miss RICE of
New York, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. ROUDA,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Mr. SARBANES, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. SCHRA-
DER, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. SIRES, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Mr. SOTO, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Ms. TITUS, Mr. TRONE, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
TONKO, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. POR-
TER, Mr. CASE, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. SHERRILL,
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, and Mr.
DESAULNIER):
H.R. 2975. A bill to protect a woman’s abil-
ity to determine whether and when to bear a
child or end a pregnancy, and to protect a
health care provider’s ability to provide re-
productive health care services, including
abortion services; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself and Mr. KATKO):
H.R. 2976. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide authority to
postpone certain deadlines by reason of
State declared disasters or emergencies; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mr. ALLRED, Mrs. AXNE, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Ms. BASS, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. BERA, Mr. BEYER, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CASE,
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. CLARK of Massa-
chusetts, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. COHEN, Mr. COOPER,
Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. COX of California,
Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. CRIST, Mr. CROW, Mr.
CUNNINGHAM, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Ms. DEAN,
Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms. DEGETTE, Ms.
DELAURO, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
DELGADO, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Ms. FINKENAUER, Ms. FRANKEL, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. GREEN
of Texas, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. HARDER of California,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. HECK,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Ms. HILL of
California, Mr. HIMES, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. HORSFORD,
Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Ms. KAPTUR, Ms. KELLY of
Illinois, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KILDEE, Mr.
KILMER, Mr. KIM, Mr. KIND, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
LAMB, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms.
LEE of California, Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
LOEBSACK, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs.
LOWEY, Mr. LUJÁN, Mrs. LURIA, Mr.
LYNCH, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
Ms. MATSUI, Mr. MCADAMS, Mrs.
MCBATH, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. MOULTON,
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mrs. MUR-
PHY, Mr. NADLER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. NORCROSS, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
PALLONE, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. PAPPAS,
Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. PETERS, Mr. PHIL-
LIPS, Mr. POCAN, Ms. PORTER, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. PRICE of North Caro-
lina, Mr. QUIGLEY, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
ROUDA, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
RUIZ, Mr. RYAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
SARBANES, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SCHRADER,
Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, Mr. DAVID SCOTT
of Georgia, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
SHERRILL, Mr. SIRES, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Ms. SPANBERGER, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. STANTON, Ms. STEVENS,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, Ms. TLAIB, Ms. TORRES
SMALL of New Mexico, Mrs. TRAHAN,
Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. VARGAS, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Mr. WELCH, Ms. WILD, and Mr. YAR-
MUTH):
H.R. 2977. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to provide for ad-
ditional disclosure requirements for corpora-
tions, labor organizations, Super PACs and
other entities, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on House Administration, and in
addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. PRICE of North Caro-
lina, and Mr. CUMMINGS):
H.R. 2978. A bill to amend title 44, United
States Code, to reauthorize the National His-
torical Publications and Records Commis-
sion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. HASTINGS, and Ms. BASS):
H.R. 2979. A bill to improve diversity and
inclusion in the workforce of national secu-
rity agencies, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on Armed Services,
Intelligence (Permanent Select), the Judici-
ary, Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Fi-
nancial Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. CRAWFORD:
H.R. 2980. A bill to provide for the estab-
lishment of the Entry Adjudication through
General Legal Expertise Corps, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and Labor, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 2981. A bill to establish a pilot pro-
gram at the Small Business Administration
that grants awards to historically Black col-
leges and universities establishing an entre-
preneurship curriculum and placement of a
Small Business Development Center on the
physical campus of the institution, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on Small Business, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM (for himself and
Mrs. MURPHY):
H.R. 2982. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to conduct a study of the
barriers for women veterans to health care
from the Department of Veterans Affairs; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 2983. A bill to provide for the estab-
lishment of the United States Employee
Ownership Bank, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Financial Services, and in
addition to the Committee on Education and
Labor, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. DESAULNIER (for himself, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. HUFFMAN, and Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23MY7.100 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4163
May 23, 2019
H.R. 2984. A bill to provide whistleblower
protections to certain workers in the off-
shore oil and gas industry; to the Committee
on Education and Labor.
By Mr. ESTES (for himself and Mr.
SCHNEIDER):
H.R. 2985. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to clarify that payment of
taxes on deferred foreign income in install-
ments shall not prevent credit or refund of
overpayments or increase estimated taxes;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. HERRERA
BEUTLER, and Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio):
H.R. 2986. A bill to amend the United
States Energy Storage Competitiveness Act
of 2007 to establish a research, development,
and demonstration program for grid-scale
energy storage systems, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology.
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 2987. A bill to amend the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 to require the appointment
by the President of the Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs to be
made by and with the advice and consent of
the Senate; to the Committee on Armed
Services, and in addition to the Committees
on Foreign Affairs, and Intelligence (Perma-
nent Select), for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. GOODEN (for himself, Mr. SCA-
LISE, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, Mr. WALKER, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr. BABIN,
Mr. TAYLOR, and Mr. JOHNSON of Lou-
isiana):
H.R. 2988. A bill to ensure State and local
compliance with all Federal immigration de-
tainers on aliens in custody, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and Labor, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. BABIN,
Mr. BUDD, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. DUN-
CAN, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr.
NORMAN, Mr. PERRY, Mr. MCCLIN-
TOCK, and Mr. BIGGS):
H.R. 2989. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to provide that any
alien who has been convicted of a felony or
two misdemeanors, is deportable, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee (for him-
self and Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi):
H.R. 2990. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to permit States to des-
ignate without any mileage limitations fa-
cilities that are located in rural areas as
critical access hospitals, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr.
LARSON of Connecticut, and Ms.
FUDGE):
H.R. 2991. A bill to restore protections for
Social Security, Railroad retirement, and
Black Lung benefits from administrative off-
set; to the Committee on the Judiciary, and
in addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 2992. A bill to amend the National
Labor Relations Act to permit employers to
pay higher wages to their employees; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for
himself and Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania):
H.R. 2993. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend and modify the
section 45 credit for refined coal from steel
industry fuel, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself and
Mr. GROTHMAN):
H.R. 2994. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to ensure that each wheelchair,
furnished to a veteran because of a service-
connected disability, restores the maximum
achievable mobility in the activities of daily
life, employment, and recreation, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. LEVIN of California (for him-
self, Mr. PETERS, Ms. PORTER, Mr.
ROUDA, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Mr. VARGAS, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, and Ms.
BONAMICI):
H.R. 2995. A bill to amend the Nuclear
Waste Policy Act of 1982 to prioritize the ac-
ceptance of high-level radioactive waste or
spent nuclear fuel from certain civilian nu-
clear power reactors, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. LEWIS (for himself, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. RUSH, Ms. OMAR, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
and Mr. SUOZZI):
H.R. 2996. A bill to amend the Bipartisan
Congressional Trade Priorities and Account-
ability Act of 2015 with respect to the protec-
tion of human rights and labor standards,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Rules, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. LOEBSACK (for himself, Mr.
STIVERS, Mrs. BUSTOS, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Mrs. AXNE, Mr. VELA,
Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. MCCAUL, Ms.
GABBARD, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. GAETZ, Mr. COOPER, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. RYAN, Mr. KATKO, Mr.
GIBBS, Mr. HIMES, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. GALLEGO,
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. OLSON, Mr. YOUNG,
Mr. PAYNE, Ms. LOFGREN, and Mr.
VEASEY):
H.R. 2997. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure that certain veterans
receive in-patient psychiatric care provided
by the Department of Veterans Affairs; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.R. 2998. A bill to amend chapter 1 of title
23, United States Code, to condition the re-
ceipt of certain highway funding by States
on the enactment and enforcement by States
of certain laws to prevent repeat intoxicated
driving; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. LUJÁN (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. COLE, and Ms. MCCOL-
LUM):
H.R. 2999. A bill to provide for rental as-
sistance for homeless or at-risk Indian vet-
erans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Mr. MCCLINTOCK (for himself, Mr.
LAHOOD, Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. DUNCAN,
Mr. GOSAR, Mr. BUDD, Mr. LONG, Mr.
WALKER, Mr. BABIN, Mr. ARRINGTON,
Mrs. MILLER, Mr. COOK, Mr. GIBBS,
Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. HUNTER, Mr.
GOHMERT, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr.
BIGGS, and Mr. WRIGHT):
H.R. 3000. A bill to ensure that State and
local law enforcement may cooperate with
Federal officials to protect our communities
from violent criminals and suspected terror-
ists who are illegally present in the United
States; to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and in addition to the Committees on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure, and Financial
Services, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. MOORE, Mr. ROUDA, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. LYNCH, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. CASE, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. RASKIN, Mrs.
LOWEY, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. SARBANES,
Mr. BEYER, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Ms. CLARK of Massachu-
setts, and Mr. ESPAILLAT):
H.R. 3001. A bill to reestablish the Office of
Noise Abatement and Control in the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. NEAL:
H.R. 3002. A bill to provide for the carriage
of certain television broadcast stations, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 3003. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to increase the maximum
limit on the number of special masters al-
lowed in the United States Court of Federal
Claims, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. OMAR (for herself, Mrs.
TRAHAN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. TLAIB,
Ms. PRESSLEY, and Ms. OCASIO-COR-
TEZ):
H.R. 3004. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to prohibit crimi-
nal corporations from making disbursements
of funds in connection with a campaign for
election for Federal, State, or local office; to
the Committee on House Administration.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. HUN-
TER, Mr. VARGAS, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. LEVIN of California):
H.R. 3005. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
13308 Midland Road in Poway, California, as
the ‘‘Ray Chavez Post Office Building’’; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. PETERSON (for himself, Mr.
JOHNSON of South Dakota, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
and Mr. LOEBSACK):
H.R. 3006. A bill to impose an annual dead-
line of June 1st for small refineries to submit
petitions for exemptions from the renewable
fuel requirements under section 211(o) of the
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(o)) based on dis-
proportionate economic hardship; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23MY7.100 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4164 May 23, 2019
By Mr. POCAN:
H.R. 3007. A bill to establish an Employee
Ownership and Participation Initiative, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 3008. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to establish national standards
relating to sanctions for individuals who
drive a motor vehicle, with a child passenger
in the vehicle, while intoxicated or impaired,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 3009. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to establish a distracted
driving education grant program, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Miss RICE of New York (for herself,
Mr. MAST, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
Ms. GABBARD, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Mr. KING of New York, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. MOULTON, Ms. WILD, Mr.
FORTENBERRY, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. JOHN-
SON of Georgia, Mr. RYAN, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
HOULAHAN, Ms. HILL of California,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr.
LAMB, Mr. BERGMAN, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr. CRIST,
Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. KEATING, Ms.
SHERRILL, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. ALLRED,
Mr. MORELLE, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Ms. FRANKEL, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. VAN DREW, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, and Mr. SERRANO):
H.R. 3010. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to establish a mission state-
ment of the Department of Veterans Affairs;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 3011. A bill to improve the safety of
individuals by taking measures to end drunk
driving; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure, and in addition to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. ROUZER (for himself, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. HUD-
SON, and Mr. FERGUSON):
H.R. 3012. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to conduct outreach to vet-
erans regarding the effect of delayed pay-
ments of claims for emergency medical care
furnished by non-Department of Veterans Af-
fairs medical providers by the Office of Com-
munity Care and to direct the Secretary to
submit to Congress an annual report regard-
ing such delayed payments; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. STEUBE:
H.R. 3013. A bill to direct Federal depart-
ments and agencies to verify eligibility for
Federal benefits for individuals 105 years of
age or older, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. THORNBERRY:
H.R. 3014. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, and the Small Business Act to
improve innovation in defense procurement,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Small Business, and Science,
Space, and Technology, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. TURNER (for himself, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, and Ms.
STEFANIK):
H.R. 3015. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to enhance the prevention of
sexual assault and related offenses in the
Armed Forces, to enhance protections of vic-
tims of such offenses, to improve the inves-
tigation and prosecution of such offenses,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Ms. GABBARD, Mr.
VELA, and Ms. NORTON):
H.R. 3016. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for and sup-
port liver illness visibility, education, and
research, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. WENSTRUP:
H.R. 3017. A bill to amend parts B and E of
title IV of the Social Security Act to provide
resources to implement the programmatic
changes necessary to meet the requirements
of the Family First Prevention Services Act,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Ms. WEXTON:
H.R. 3018. A bill to prohibit the Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development from im-
plementing a proposed rule regarding re-
quirements under Community Planning and
Development housing programs; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. HUN-
TER, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. HERRERA
BEUTLER, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
CARBAJAL, and Mr. YOHO):
H.R. 3019. A bill to require that Federal
agencies only procure cut flowers and cut
greens produced in the United States, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 3020. A bill to establish a congression-
ally chartered seaway development corpora-
tion in the Arctic, consistent with cus-
tomary international law, with the intention
of uniting Arctic nations in a cooperative
Arctic shipping union, where voluntary col-
lective maritime shipping fees will help fund
the infrastructural and environmental de-
mands of safe and reliable shipping in the re-
gion; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure, and in addition to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr. WIL-
SON of South Carolina, Mr. HASTINGS,
and Ms. KAPTUR):
H. Res. 400. A resolution supporting efforts
to strengthen democracy in Hungary and its
alliance with the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself, Mr. BERA, Mr. CASE, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. CLARK of Massachu-
setts, Mr. COX of California, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Ms. ESHOO, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. GREEN of
Texas, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. KHANNA,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. MATSUI, Ms.
MENG, Mrs. MURPHY, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mr. PETERS, Ms. PORTER, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. SABLAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Mr. TAKANO, Mr. TRONE, Mr. VARGAS,
and Ms. WATERS):
H. Res. 401. A resolution recognizing the
significance of Asian/Pacific American Herit-
age Month in May as an important time to
celebrate the significant contributions of
Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders to the
history of the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. CASE,
Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of
Illinois, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. GAETZ,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of
Oklahoma, Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
MATSUI, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. NADLER, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
POCAN, Ms. SHERRILL, Ms. STEVENS,
Mr. VELA, and Mr. YARMUTH):
H. Res. 402. A resolution recognizing the
significant milestone of Senior Corps volun-
teers serving 50,000,000 hours in 2018; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. GALLEGO:
H. Res. 403. A resolution honoring and rec-
ognizing the military service and contribu-
tions of Native American veterans and com-
munities; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs, and in addition to the Committees on
Natural Resources, and Armed Services, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GOMEZ (for himself, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. LEE
of California, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. SHERMAN, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, Mr.
ALLRED, Mr. SOTO, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. MATSUI, Mr.
EVANS, Mr. CASE, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Ms. NORTON, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
VELA, Mr. CISNEROS, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Ms. MENG, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. MCNER-
NEY, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr.
COSTA, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. PANETTA,
Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. LEWIS, Ms.
BASS, Ms. HILL of California, Ms.
PORTER, Mr. CORREA, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. THOMP-
SON of California, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms.
LOFGREN, and Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia):
H. Res. 404. A resolution commending Ko-
rean and Korean-American Vietnam War vet-
erans for their service to the United States
during the Vietnam conflict; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, and in addition
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. MATSUI (for herself, Mr. SHIM-
KUS, and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD):
H. Res. 405. A resolution commemorating
the 50th anniversary of the Apollo 11 Mis-
sion, and supporting the week of July 16
through July 20 as the Apollo 50 Celebration
Week; to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23MY7.100 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4165
May 23, 2019
By Ms. MENG (for herself, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. MOORE, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. TITUS, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. OMAR, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, and Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Geor-
gia):
H. Res. 406. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of Menstrual Hygiene Day;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in
addition to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. NORTON:
H. Res. 407. A resolution recognizing on
Memorial Day, May 27, 2019, the denial of full
participation in their Government through
statehood by active duty servicemembers,
National Guard members, reservists, vet-
erans, and their families who are residents of
the District of Columbia; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself, Mr.
PERRY, and Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI):
H. Res. 408. A resolution condemning the
terrorist attack in India that tragically
killed 41 Indian Central Reserve Police; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mrs. MCBATH:
H.R. 2938.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I; Section 8 of the Consitution.
By Mrs. NAPOLITANO:
H.R. 2939.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Amendment X to the Constitution.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 2940.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution, to ‘‘provide for the com-
mon Defence and general Welfare of the
United States.’’
By Ms. HOULAHAN:
H.R. 2941.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. CISNEROS:
H.R. 2942.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. CISNEROS:
H.R. 2943.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. CISNEROS:
H.R. 2944.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
H.R. 2945.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 2946.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
‘‘To make all Laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States, or in any
Department of Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. CARBAJAL:
H.R. 2947.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion which provides Congress with the power
to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and
Excises in order to provide for the general
Welfare of the United States.’’
By Mr. RUTHERFORD:
H.R. 2948.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.R. 2949.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. DEAN:
H.R. 2950.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 2951.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 2952.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Section 8 of Article I of the United States
Constitution.’’
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 2953.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Section 8 of Article I of the United States
Constitution.’’
By Mr. PALAZZO:
H.R. 2954.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
provides Congress authority to raise and sup-
port Armies and to provide and maintain a
Navy.
By Mr. PALMER:
H.R. 2955.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. CALVERT:
H.R. 2956.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 of the U .S.
Constitution.
By Mr. BYRNE:
H.R. 2957.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 2958.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. 1, Sec. 8: ‘‘The Congress shall have
Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Im-
posts and Excises, to pay the Debts and pro-
vide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States.’’
By Mr. SWALWELL of California:
H.R. 2959.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, 3, and 18
By Mr. LARSEN of Washington:
H.R. 2961.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
As described in Article 1, Section 1 ‘‘all
legislative Powers herein granted shall be
vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.’’
By Mr. WRIGHT:
H.R. 2962.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. WRIGHT:
H.R. 2963.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 2964.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 2965.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 2966.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 2967.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 2969.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. ADAMS:
H .R. 2970.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution and Amendment
XVI of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 2971.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the U.S. Constitution
By Mr. BRINDISI:
H.R. 2972.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23MY7.100 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4166 May 23, 2019
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama:
H.R. 2973.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 2974.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 2975.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
United States Constitution
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 2976.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I—Section 8: The Congress shall
have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and
provide for the common Defense and general
Welfare of the United States.
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 2977.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 2978.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 2979.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. CRAWFORD:
H.R. 2980.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the enumerated powers
listed in Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the
U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 2981.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM:
H.R. 2982.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have the power to . . . provide for
the common defense and general welfare of
the United States’’
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: ‘‘To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers . . .’’
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 2983.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 2984.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. ESTES:
H.R. 2985.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have Power To lay and collect
Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay
the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States.’’
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 2986.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 2987.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. GOODEN:
H.R. 2988.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article One, Section Eight, Clause 18
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 2989.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8, clause 4, (the Natu-
ralization Clause) which gives Congress sov-
ereign control over immigration. In Chirac v.
Lessee of Chirac (1817), the Supreme Court
affirmed that the Constitution grants Con-
gress Plenary power on immigration policy.
Further, in Galvan v. Press (1954) the court
found ‘‘that the formulation of policies [per-
taining to the entry of aliens and the right
to remain here] is entrusted to Congress has
become about as firmly imbedded in the leg-
islative and judicial tissues of our body poli-
tic as any aspect of our government.’’
Finally, in Sessions v. Dimaya (2018), when
discussing the aggravated felony definition
in section 101(a)(43)(F) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (INA), Justice Neil
Gorsuch issued an opinion stating, ‘‘Congress
remains free at any time to add more crimes
to its list. It remains free, as well, to write
a new residual clause that affords the fair
notice lacking here. Congress might, for ex-
ample, say that a conviction for any felony
carrying a prison sentence of a specified
length opens an alien to removal. Congress
has done almost exaclty this in other laws
. . .’’
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
H.R. 2990.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 2991.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, §§ 1 and 8.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 2992.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania:
H.R. 2993.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Article I Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.R. 2994.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. LEVIN of California:
H.R. 2995.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 2996.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. LOEBSACK:
H.R. 2997.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.R. 2998.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. LUJÁN:
H.R. 2999.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1. Section 8.
By Mr. MCCLINTOCK:
H.R. 3000.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 4 of the United
States Constitution
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 3001.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Section 8 of Article 1 of the Constitution
By Mr. NEAL:
H.R. 3002.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is in the power of Congress to regu-
late commerce as enumerated in Article I,
Section 8.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 3003.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Ms. OMAR:
H.R. 3004.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article. 1, Section. 1
By Mr. PETERS:
H.R. 3005.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. PETERSON:
H.R. 3006.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution.
By Mr. POCAN:
H.R. 3007.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 3008.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8,
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 3009.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:57 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.023 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4167
May 23, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8,
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 3010.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Aticle I, Section 8
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 3011.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8,
By Mr. ROUZER:
H.R. 3012.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. STEUBE:
H.R. 3013.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States;
To borrow money on the credit of the
United States;
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes;
To establish an uniform Rule of Natu-
ralization, and uniform Laws on the subject
of Bankruptcies throughout the United
States;
To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof,
and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of
Weights and Measures;
To provide for the Punishment of counter-
feiting the Securities and current Coin of the
United States;
To establish Post Offices and Post Roads;
To promote the Progress of Science and
useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to
Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to
their respective Writings and Discoveries;
To constitute Tribunals inferior to the su-
preme Court;
and Offenses against the Law of Nations;
To declare War, grant Letters of Marque
and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning
Captures on Land and Water;
To raise and support Armies, but no Appro-
priation of Money to that Use shall be for a
longer Term than two Years;
To provide and maintain a Navy;
To make Rules for the Government and
Regulation of the land and naval Forces;
To provide for calling forth the Militia to
execute the Laws of the Union, suppress In-
surrections and repel Invasions;
To provide for organizing, arming, and dis-
ciplining, the Militia, and for governing such
Part of them as may be employed in the
Service of the United States, reserving to
the States respectively, the Appointment of
the Officers, and the Authority of training
the Militia according to the discipline pre-
scribed by Congress;
To exercise exclusive Legislation in all
Cases whatsoever, over such District (not ex-
ceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession
of particular States, and the acceptance of
Congress, become the Seat of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and to exercise
like Authority over all Places purchased by
the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be, for the Erection
of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards,
and other needful Buildings; And
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. THORNBERRY:
H.R. 3014.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power of Congress to ‘‘pro-
vide for the common Defence,’’ ‘‘raise and
support Armies,’’ ‘‘provide and maintain a
Navy,’’ and ‘‘make Rules for the Government
and Regulation of the land and naval
Forces’’ as enumerated in Article I, section 8
of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. TURNER:
H.R. 3015.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8,
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 3016.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power to . . . pro-
vide for the . . . general Welfare of the
United States; . . .
By Mr. WENSTRUP:
H.R. 3017.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article l, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. WEXTON:
H.R. 3018.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 3019.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 9 of the Constitution
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 3020.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to Article 1, Section 8, clauses 1,
2, 3 and 18 of the United States Constitution,
Congress has the power: to lay and collect
taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to pay the
debts and provide for the common defense
and general welfare of the United States; but
all duties, imposts and excises shall be uni-
form throughout the United States; to bor-
row money on the credit of the United
States; to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several states, and
with the Indian tribes; and to make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 36: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. OMAR, and Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 127: Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 220: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 307: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 435: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 500: Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. MATSUI, Mr.
BERA, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. COOPER, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. DESAULNIER,
Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr.
WOODALL, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. MOONEY of
West Virginia, and Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 510: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 550: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Mr. EVANS, and Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 555: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 586: Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. HILL of Ar-
kansas, and Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 594: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 621: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington and
Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 647: Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 663: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 693: Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, Ms. HOULAHAN, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr.
ARRINGTON, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. LEVIN of Michi-
gan, Mr. CASE, and Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 721: Mr. LAMB and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 737: Mrs. HAYES, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mrs.
MURPHY, and Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 748: Mr. THORNBERRY.
H.R. 763: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 776: Mr. LANGEVIN and Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 803: Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 816: Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 847: Mr. AGUILAR and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 864: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 873: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 874: Mr. CORREA, Mr. LIPINSKI, and Ms.
SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 878: Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 886: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 955: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 959: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 963: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 976: Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 988: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 1011: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1012: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1013: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1024: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 1044: Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mrs.
DEMINGS, and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1046: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1083: Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
and Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 1108: Mr. YOHO, Mr. AMODEI, Mr. RUIZ,
Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. COMER, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr.
BARR, Mr. TRONE, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
LAHOOD, Mr. HARRIS, and Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 1139: Mr. MORELLE and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1140: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Ms.
ADAMS, Ms. WEXTON, and Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 1146: Ms. ADAMS, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
STANTON, and Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 1153: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 1154: Ms. SÁNCHEZ and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1163: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 1175: Mr. CRAWFORD and Mr. BACON.
H.R. 1185: Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 1220: Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 1221: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, and Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 1224: Ms. CHENEY, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. MAST, and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1225: Mr. FLORES, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
FULCHER, and Mr. DUNCAN.
H.R. 1257: Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mrs. LURIA,
Mrs. MILLER, and Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 1297: Mr. GRIJALVA and Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 1309: Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. MEEKS,
and Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 1334: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1346: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina and
Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1396: Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
BABIN, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Ms. ESCOBAR, and Ms. CASTOR of
Florida.
H.R. 1423: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 1551: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 1554: Mr. DESJARLAIS and Ms. JACKSON
LEE.
H.R. 1581: Mrs. MCBATH.
H.R. 1592: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 1610: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 1643: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 1652: Mr. YARMUTH and Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.028 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4168 May 23, 2019
H.R. 1661: Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 1664: Mrs. MILLER.
H.R. 1673: Mr. STEUBE and Mr. KELLY of
Mississippi.
H.R. 1709: Mr. ESPAILLAT and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 1711: Ms. OMAR and Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 1730: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. LONG, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio,
Ms. SPEIER, Mr. GROTHMAN, and Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 1754: Mr. TRONE and Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1769: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 1805: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1850: Mr. DESJARLAIS and Mr.
GIANFORTE.
H.R. 1865: Mr. KIM, Mr. GOODEN, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. ROUDA, and Mr. LARSON of Con-
necticut.
H.R. 1866: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 1872: Mr. KING of Iowa.
H.R. 1873: Ms. STEFANIK and Mr. HECK.
H.R. 1878: Mr. COX of California, Mr. LEVIN
of Michigan, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. SHERMAN, Ms.
HILL of California, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. KING
of New York.
H.R. 1882: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, and Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 1923: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1959: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 1965: Mr. SAN NICOLAS.
H.R. 1975: Mr. GRAVES of Georgia.
H.R. 1976: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 2010: Mr. SPANO and Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 2041: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2046: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
H.R. 2062: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2081: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 2086: Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 2090: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2149: Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. POCAN, and
Mr. MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 2174: Mr. LONG, Mr. KING of Iowa, and
Mr. SMITH of Missouri.
H.R. 2178: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Mr. WILSON
of South Carolina.
H.R. 2208: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2256: Mr. SCHNEIDER and Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 2271: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2293: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 2349: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 2353: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WILD, Mr.
LYNCH, Ms. OMAR, Mr. SABLAN, Ms. TLAIB,
Ms. SCHRIER, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
and Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 2354: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 2382: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
NADLER, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. GARCÍA of Illi-
nois, and Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 2397: Mr. MORELLE and Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 2402: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 2408: Mr. MULLIN and Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 2420: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2424: Mr. ROUDA, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
VAN DREW, Mr. KENNEDY, Ms. PINGREE, and
Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 2426: Mrs. DEMINGS, Mrs. MCBATH, Mr.
SCHIFF, and Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 2433: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
WENSTRUP, and Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 2439: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 2442: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2443: Mrs. MILLER, Mr. COLLINS of New
York, and Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 2466: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 2474: Mr. KIM and Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 2476: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 2478: Mr. MULLIN, Mr. HECK, Mr. SMITH
of New Jersey, Mr. PAPPAS, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2482: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 2489: Ms. TLAIB and Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 2493: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 2507: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 2508: Mrs. MILLER and Mrs. RODGERS
of Washington.
H.R. 2521: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 2528: Mr. LAMB, Mr. KENNEDY, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Ms. STEVENS, and Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 2540: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2554: Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 2569: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. KIM, Mr. LIPIN-
SKI, and Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2577: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2635: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2651: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2660: Mr. LYNCH, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
BASS, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. FOSTER,
Ms. NORTON, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. KAPTUR,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr. CISNEROS, and
Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 2662: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 2678: Ms. NORTON and Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY.
H.R. 2692: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 2698: Mr. WALTZ and Ms. DAVIDS of
Kansas.
H.R. 2700: Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. BOST, and Mr.
MEADOWS.
H.R. 2701: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 2711: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2720: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 2741: Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 2742: Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 2744: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 2747: Mr. RASKIN, Ms. WEXTON, and
Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 2770: Mr. PAYNE, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mrs. TORRES of Cali-
fornia, Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. WITTMAN, and Mr.
GIBBS.
H.R. 2771: Mr. MCKINLEY and Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 2774: Mr. BERA and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2775: Mr. SOTO, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and
Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 2776: Mr. SHERMAN and Ms. CLARKE of
New York.
H.R. 2777: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2790: Mr. SCALISE, Mr. DESJARLAIS,
Mr. GOODEN, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. BURCHETT,
and Mr. MCCLINTOCK.
H.R. 2817: Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 2829: Mr. TRONE, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, and Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2842: Mr. PERLMUTTER and Ms. NOR-
TON.
H.R. 2843: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. HORSFORD,
and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2850: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2859: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H.R. 2895: Mr. MCKINLEY and Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 2902: Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 2925: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 2929: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H. Con. Res. 8: Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia and Ms. SCHRIER.
H. Con. Res. 36: Mr. LEVIN of California and
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H. Con. Res. 41: Mr. ALLEN, Mr. MEUSER,
Mr. ROUZER, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. POSEY, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee,
Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. BAIRD, Mr. BANKS, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. BUDD,
Mr. PALMER, Mr. FLORES, Mr. KELLY of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr.
HICE of Georgia, and Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio.
H. Res. 23: Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr. COURTNEY,
and Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H. Res. 54: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H. Res. 78: Ms. LOFGREN.
H. Res. 219: Mr. RUSH.
H. Res. 246: Mrs. ROBY, Mr. PALMER, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, and Ms.
MATSUI.
H. Res. 255: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H. Res. 257: Ms. DEGETTE and Ms. LEE of
California.
H. Res. 285: Ms. PINGREE, Mr. CICILLINE,
Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr. COSTA, Mr. KEVIN
HERN of Oklahoma, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. POCAN,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. WENSTRUP,
Mr. SIRES, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. WITT-
MAN, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
WALBERG, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mr.
ROUZER, Mr. KATKO, and Mr. HIGGINS of New
York.
H. Res. 289: Mr. TRONE.
H. Res. 338: Mr. LAHOOD.
H. Res. 344: Ms. LOFGREN.
H. Res. 392: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. PAYNE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, and Mr. LIPIN-
SKI.
H. Res. 398: Mr. BIGGS, Mrs. LESKO, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, and
Mr. MCKINLEY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY7.016 H23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S3065
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, MAY 23, 2019 No. 87
Senate
(Legislative day of Wednesday, May 22, 2019)
The Senate met at 9:30 a.m., on the
expiration of the recess, and was called
to order by the Honorable THOM TILLIS,
a Senator from the State of North
Carolina.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, who rules the raging of
the sea, we come to You with our im-
perfections, depending on Your prom-
ises to keep us from stumbling or slip-
ping. Speak to us as we seek to be Your
instruments during these challenging
times. Let Your infinite wisdom pro-
vide for the deepest needs of our Sen-
ators. Give them strength from Your
celestial bounty to manage the min-
utes and hours of this day in a way
that pleases You. Lord, let the pres-
ence of Your peace sustain them as
they face the myriad difficulties of the
work You have called for them to do.
Call forth from them their best as they
seek a closer walk with You.
We pray in Your Holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The legislative clerk read the fol-
lowing letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, May 23, 2019.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable THOM TILLIS, a Sen-
ator from the State of North Carolina, to
perform the duties of the Chair.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Mr. TILLIS thereupon assumed the
Chair as Acting President pro tempore.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
MEMORIAL DAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
Monday, of course, is Memorial Day.
Americans will take time out of our or-
dinary routine and busy lives to re-
member the men and women who paid
the ultimate price for the security of
our Nation and the liberty we cherish.
We mourn every young American
whose sacrifice has furthered the cause
of our founding ideals, and we acknowl-
edge in a special way the Gold Star
families they leave behind—parents,
spouses, and children whose grief is
only matched by the facts of a grateful
Nation.
As President Reagan said one Memo-
rial Day, across the river at Arlington:
‘‘Today is the day we put aside to re-
member fallen heroes and to pray that
no heroes will ever have to die for us
again.’’
So while this day is a day for hon-
oring and remembering, in particular,
our fallen heroes, it is natural that our
thoughts also turn to the brave men
and women who are currently serving.
I am thinking of the service men and
women who are defending our country
overseas and especially those engaged
in combat in Afghanistan and Syria,
all those stationed in the Middle East
who are threatened by Iran, and those
holding the line in Asia against the
threats from North Korea.
We are tremendously grateful for our
military’s efforts these last 18 years to
keep America safe from terrorism and
their ongoing work to combat al-Qaida,
fight ISIS, and to help stabilize Af-
ghanistan.
Of course, I am particularly mindful
of the members of the Kentucky Na-
tional Guard and the many soldiers of
Kentucky-based Active-Duty units who
are deployed in harm’s way.
In light of the recent intelligence, we
are also keenly aware of the critical
role our military is playing at this
very moment to deter Iranian aggres-
sion.
The administration engaged Mem-
bers of Congress earlier this week to
brief us on the growing threat and de-
tail the steps the administration is
taking to address it.
I am grateful our U.S. military has
already taken proven steps to improve
the posture of our forces so they are
ready to defend our servicemembers,
military vessels, and diplomatic facili-
ties and deter attacks by Iran or its
proxies all across the region.
Nobody wants a conflict with Iran.
We have heard clearly from the Presi-
dent and his senior advisers that the
administration’s objective is to deter
Iran from engaging in threatening acts
that increase the risk of such a con-
flict.
We all know that, particularly when
dealing with hostile actors, peace is a
function of strength. So it is essential
that even amid other partisan political
disagreements, we remain one unified
Nation. America must give Iran no rea-
son—no reason—to misjudge our re-
solve.
Whatever disputes my colleagues
may have with the administration
about other issues, I hope we can avoid
politicizing any differences about this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:10 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.000 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3066 May 23, 2019
particular threat and work together to
keep America safe.
I also want to mention the American
diplomats who are also hard at work
overseas. We know that many of them,
too, are stationed in harm’s way, as we
remember from repeated Iranian-
backed attacks over many years on our
Embassy in Baghdad or the murder of
Ambassador Chris Stevens in Benghazi.
We are grateful for the talent and the
hard work they have deployed—often,
hand in hand with our military—to ad-
vance American interests, preserve
peace, prevent miscalculation, and
deter conflict. I know I speak for all of
my colleagues when I say I hope their
efforts are heeded.
f
SENATE LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
a different matter, as I stated, the Sen-
ate will not adjourn this week until we
have voted on legislation to deliver
long, overdue relief funding for com-
munities that have been hit hard by
natural disasters.
None of my colleagues need to hear
me recite yet again why action in this
area is such an important priority and
why it is so urgently needed. It is a
shame that this overdue subject has
been allowed to languish for so long
due to extraneous questions and, frank-
ly, partisan small-ball.
Wildfire victims in the Western
States don’t want to hear about House
Democrats’ various disagreements with
the White House on a variety of issues.
They simply want the relief they need
and have been waiting for.
The same goes for the flooded Mid-
west, the hurricane-ravaged Southeast,
and the Kentuckians I myself rep-
resent. They don’t want to hear about
more Washington difficulties. They
want an outcome.
And, of course, everyone is well
aware that we have an ongoing human-
itarian crisis on our southern border
and that our Federal Government
needs more resources to deal with it.
Even the New York Times editorial
board wrote a few weeks ago:
As resources are strained and the system
buckles, the misery grows. Something needs
to be done. Soon.
That is the New York Times.
The editorial went on:
[T]he program that deals with unaccom-
panied minors is expected to run dry next
month. . . . Democrats need to find a way to
provide money for adequate shelter.
That is the New York Times.
And here was the title of the edi-
torial, believe it or not: ‘‘Congress,
Give Trump His Border Money.’’ That
is in the New York Times.
So on all these matters, it is past
time—way past time to bring these ne-
gotiations to a close.
I thank Chairman SHELBY and all of
our colleagues whose leadership has
brought a bipartisan and bicameral so-
lution this close to the finish line—this
close. I implore our counterparts in the
House and my colleagues in this Cham-
ber to quickly resolve the last few
issues and produce compromise legisla-
tion today. We need to do this today
because, one way or another, the Sen-
ate is not leaving without taking ac-
tion. We are going to vote this week,
and I sincerely hope we will be voting
on a bicameral and bipartisan, nego-
tiated solution that could become law
for the American people.
f
TOBACCO-FREE YOUTH ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, ear-
lier this week, Senator KAINE and I in-
troduced new legislation to raise the
national minimum age for purchasing
tobacco products to 21. Now, it has gen-
erated some attention that Senators
from Kentucky and Virginia—States
with some connection to tobacco farm-
ing and production—are sponsoring
this legislation, but, as I said Monday,
Kentucky farmers don’t want their
children forming nicotine addictions in
middle school or high school any more
than anyone else.
Well, it turns out a lot of people
across the country feel the same way
we do. We have already seen more than
a dozen experts, advocates, and public
health groups come to rally around our
legislation. One such organization said
that the proposal would ‘‘support
smoking prevention among a popu-
lation that is particularly susceptible
to addiction, whose brains are still de-
veloping, and among whom nicotine
use can have long-term developmental
harms.’’
When you consider the design of our
approach, it is hardly surprising that
leading voices in this area are lining up
with enthusiasm. It is practical, it is
within our reach, and it can become
law. Our legislation simply works from
the foundation of existing law. We take
the existing mechanisms that are in
Federal statute today to enforce the 18-
year minimum standard and replace
‘‘18’’ with ‘‘21.’’ It is simple, it is
straightforward, and it builds on what
we know works.
Not only does this approach stream-
line implementation for addressing a
widely acknowledged public health cri-
sis, but it also preserves the freedom of
individual States to go even further in
their efforts to protect vulnerable
youth. Yet it ensures States cannot
enact anything less protective than the
Federal T21 standard.
As I said earlier in the week, all
youth below the age of 21 deserve the
same protections from the public
health crisis of nicotine addiction.
Anyone who actually reads our bill will
see that our intentions are clear and
above reproach. Partisan griping will
not save lives, nor will it prevent even
more middle schoolers from yielding to
potentially deadly addiction. As one
advocate put it, ‘‘Every extra day it
takes to put this important legislation
into effect is an opportunity for thou-
sands more kids to access a tobacco
product that can damage their devel-
oping brains.’’
Now is the time for us to join to-
gether in a bipartisan manner and ac-
tually get a result that our Nation’s
youth so obviously need. In just 3 days
since introduction, I have been encour-
aged by the support the Tobacco-Free
Youth Act has received. I look forward
to working with each of our colleagues
to make it a reality and fight back
against the scourge of addiction among
America’s young people.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). Without objection, it is
so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
DISASTER RELIEF
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
there is a lot of partisan squabbling
that goes on around here. We all know
that. Some of it is to be expected. After
all, our parties have real disagreements
about policy and the direction in which
we think the country should go.
But there are a few issues that are
too important to get caught up in the
typical partisan back-and-forth—a few
fundamental responsibilities that we
must fulfill as a governing body.
One of those responsibilities where
there has always been bipartisan agree-
ment has been disaster relief. Hurri-
canes, fires, and floods don’t hit only
Republicans or only Democrats. They
hit Americans of all stripes. We must
come together to provide relief for ev-
erybody.
After holding up disaster relief on be-
half of the President, who demanded we
shortchange Puerto Rico, Republicans
finally came around a few weeks ago
and agreed with a disaster relief bill
that would provide relief to everyone.
Let me repeat. We have an agreement
right now on where and how to provide
relief for Americans in the Midwest, in
the South, in the West, and in the Ter-
ritories. Chairman SHELBY and Vice
Chairman LEAHY have worked in good
faith to reach that compromise. The
House will accept it. Chairman LOWEY
and Ranking Member GRANGER also
have agreed to this disaster relief
package. So there is a package of dis-
aster relief that is ready to go.
Unfortunately, that agreement has
become entangled with extraneous
issues. However important these other
issues may be, we have an obligation to
get this disaster relief package over
the finish line before the congressional
Memorial Day work period.
Ranking Member LEAHY and I would
like to make it clear to my friend the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.001 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3067
May 23, 2019
Republican leader that Senate Demo-
crats are ready to pass the bipartisan
disaster relief package that has already
been agreed to and written.
We should leave out extraneous
issues. There are many. Everyone
wants to put in their own thing. Leave
them for another day.
Democrats are willing to work hard
to expedite consideration of that agree-
ment. We are ready to work with our
Republican colleagues to pass it as
quickly as possible.
I understand that there is some dis-
cussion going on in the House, but if
we can’t come to an agreement this
morning on the extraneous issues that
the House is discussing, we should set
those issues to the side. We should pass
the disaster agreement as is and return
to those unrelated issues at a later
date. The people of the Midwest, of the
South, of the West, and of the Terri-
tories have waited long enough. They
have waited long enough.
There are millions of Americans still
recovering from having their homes de-
stroyed, their crops devastated, their
property burnt. They have waited for
relief for too long already. They are
clamoring for it. They have said to
Congress: Put aside your differences
and get something done. The plan that
I outlined will do just that—put aside
the differences and get something done.
Whether it is the President or Mem-
bers of the House or Senate—Democrat
or Republican—who want to add extra-
neous issues, step aside at least for this
time. Let’s get it done. Let’s not delay
any longer.
f
INFRASTRUCTURE
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, on
infrastructure, yesterday, as everyone
knows, Speaker PELOSI and I met with
the President and a group of other Sen-
ators and Congress Members to discuss
the prospects for a bipartisan infra-
structure bill.
We went to the meeting with high
hopes. The President, 3 weeks earlier,
had said he would be willing to do a $2
trillion infrastructure bill and tell us
how we would pay for it. Unfortu-
nately, it was a very short meeting.
The President walked out after a few
minutes with the paltry excuse that he
would not work to get things done for
Americans unless Congress abdicated
its constitutional duty to provide over-
sight of the executive branch.
His motives were transparent. He
knows darn well that these investiga-
tions should and will go forward. He
had nothing to say on infrastructure. It
was typical of the President. He boasts
that he wants to do something and
then has no followthrough. This admin-
istration has become an erratic, helter-
skelter, get-nothing-done administra-
tion. Even on infrastructure, where
there is usually bipartisan agreement,
he couldn’t even come to the table and
talk. He had to throw a temper tan-
trum and walk out.
Presidents throughout our history
have worked with the other party
while being investigated. They know—
every President knows—it is a fact
that Congress will do oversight. Some
of it will not be pleasant for any Presi-
dent. President Obama didn’t like over-
sight; President Bush didn’t like over-
sight; President Clinton didn’t like
oversight; President H.W. Bush didn’t
like oversight; President Reagan didn’t
like oversight. But none of them, Dem-
ocrat or Republican, said: I am going
to stop the government from func-
tioning. I am going to refuse to help
hundreds of millions of Americans who
need help in one way or another be-
cause I don’t like Congress fulfilling its
constitutional responsibility.
The bottom line is simple. The Presi-
dent was merely looking for any ex-
cuse, however inelegant, however
transparent, to wriggle out of working
with Democrats on a much needed in-
frastructure bill.
Nothing about yesterday’s meeting
at the White House changes the fact
that we have serious infrastructure de-
mands in our country. Nothing about
yesterday’s meeting changes the fact
that a substantial investment in infra-
structure can boost our economy, put
millions of Americans to work, create
green jobs and green energy sources,
and meet the ever-growing demands of
the new 21st century.
We came to the meeting with the
President with serious intentions to
work with him on a large bipartisan
bill. He had asked the night before in
his letter where we wanted to put the
money. I brought to him a 35-page pro-
posal with ideas on how to craft one.
We talked about what needs to be done:
repairing and rebuilding our old roads
and bridges, water and sewer, building
a power grid so that we can bring clean
energy from the parts of the country
blessed with wind and sun to other
parts of the country in need of energy,
dealing with infrastructure in a way
that creates broadband for all of the
rural and inner city homes that don’t
have it, creating green jobs, encour-
aging electric and other kinds of vehi-
cles that will reduce the output of car-
bon into the air, and creating much
more energy-efficient homes and
schools.
There are many demands. It was a
comprehensive proposal. The President
might not agree with all of it, but we
were there, prepared to roll up our
sleeves, work, and come up with a plan.
Unfortunately, the President had no
plan. Despite his promise 3 weeks ear-
lier that he would have a plan, he had
none. Two nights before, he had said:
Well, let’s not discuss infrastructure
until we discuss USMCA and NAFTA.
Then, that morning, he didn’t even
take a seat. He stood up, obviously agi-
tated, and said that the investigations
were wrong and stalked out.
We left the meeting disappointed in
both the President’s decision and de-
meanor. But America can be assured
that Democrats will try to find ways to
move the ball forward on this impor-
tant issue of roads, bridges, broadband,
and power—with or without the Presi-
dent.
Democrats believe in infrastructure,
plain and simple. We believe that our
infrastructure is an urgent priority of
the country and this Congress. We be-
lieve we need to rebuild existing infra-
structure—the roads, bridges, ports,
and sewers. We need to build the infra-
structure of tomorrow, such as wind,
solar, a new power grid, and broadband
for rural and inner city America.
We believe our next investment in in-
frastructure must be substantial. We
believe we can pay for it without ask-
ing the middle class to shoulder the
burden.
We believe a new 21st century infra-
structure program is one of the very
best ways to create millions of long-
term, good-paying jobs, to boost our
economy, and to help combat climate
change.
So I say to my Republican colleagues
in the Senate: Despite the President’s
unwillingness to work on anything
that benefits the American people, ac-
cording to him, let’s move forward on
an infrastructure bill. Let’s put to-
gether a large, strong, well-funded, and
clean infrastructure bill.
Members of both sides should want
the opportunity to work on something
that will benefit every constituency in
every State in America. Members
should want to tell the American peo-
ple that they are working to bring jobs
to their States, broadband to rural and
underserved urban communities, to
work together to improve the economy
and the environment with a clean,
green infrastructure bill. There is no
reason why the Senate should not pur-
sue a bipartisan infrastructure bill.
Congress has taken the lead before.
Congress can take the lead again, no
matter what the President does. Just
because President Trump doesn’t want
to lead doesn’t mean that our work on
infrastructure is over—not by a long
shot.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
HEALTHCARE
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, if you
have a leak in your sink or a dripping
pipe in the bathroom, you generally fix
it yourself or call a plumber to fix the
problem. You don’t look at your other-
wise functioning house and decide to
raze it to the ground because of the
plumbing issue. But that is basically
what Democrats want to do with our
healthcare system.
Our healthcare system certainly isn’t
perfect, but our system also has plenty
of positive things going for it: high-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.003 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3068 May 23, 2019
quality care, choice, access to innova-
tive technology and treatments, and
most Americans are pretty satisfied
with their health insurance. So a log-
ical thing to do would be to fix the
problems with our system and to pre-
serve what is working, but that is not
what Democrats want to do.
Democrats want to destroy our cur-
rent system and replace it with a sin-
gle, one-size-fits-all, government-run
program known as Medicare for All.
What will that mean for Americans?
Paying more and waiting longer for
worse care.
Medicare for All is estimated to cost
$32 trillion or more over 10 years. That
is more money than the Federal Gov-
ernment has spent in the last 8 years,
combined, on everything. One Medicare
expert estimates that doubling the
amount of individual and corporate in-
come tax collected would not be
enough to cover the cost of Medicare
for All. I don’t know about the Demo-
crats, but I don’t know too many fami-
lies who can afford to have their tax
bills double.
Yet it is not just higher taxes. Medi-
care for All would eliminate Ameri-
cans’ healthcare choices.
Don’t like the one-size-fits-all gov-
ernment healthcare plan? Too bad. You
will not have any other option. Private
and employer-sponsored healthcare
will be a thing of the past. Your only
choice will be the government’s plan.
Your treatment choices will also be
limited. If the government will not
want to pay for a particular cancer
treatment, for example, you will be out
of luck. There will be no switching of
an insurer to a better carrier. Unless
you have tens or hundreds of thousands
of dollars lying around to cover that
treatment option entirely out-of-pock-
et, you are going to go without.
Then, of course, there are the long
wait times that are a hallmark of so-
cialized medicine. Patients in Canada
and the United Kingdom, both of which
have government-run healthcare sys-
tems, face tremendous wait times for
care. It can take up to a year to get a
medical procedure in Canada—one of
the reasons you hear so many stories
about Canadians coming to the United
States for care. Imagine having to wait
a year for your child to get a needed
surgery. That is the kind of thing that
parents can look forward to under
Medicare for All.
As I said earlier, there are, undoubt-
edly, parts of our healthcare system
that can be improved, and the Repub-
licans are, in fact, currently working
on legislation to increase access to af-
fordable medication and to address the
issue of surprise billing, but the solu-
tion is not to destroy our current sys-
tem and force people to pay more for
less choice and worse care.
The Democrats’ ideology has outrun
their common sense. The Republicans
are committed to improving America’s
healthcare system and preserving
Americans’ healthcare choices. I hope
the Democrats will abandon their plan
for government-controlled healthcare
and switch their focus to helping us.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ABORTION
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I rise
to speak about the recent uptick in
State efforts to criminalize abortion.
These proposals, which have been
passed in eight States just this year
and that have been proposed in many
others, impose harsh criminal penalties
on women who have abortions or on
doctors who terminate pregnancies.
The laws deny women the freedom to
make their own healthcare choices.
Therefore, they clearly violate the con-
stitutional protections established in
Roe v. Wade and subsequent cases. In
fact, many of the proponents of these
laws openly advertise them as being
part of a strategy to get the U.S. Su-
preme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade
and to return to the days when States
used the criminal law to punish women
and doctors for contraception and abor-
tion.
Abortion is a contentious issue. Peo-
ple feel so strongly about it. I under-
stand that. I feel strongly about it, too.
It can sometimes appear that there is
little common ground between people
who call themselves pro-choice and
people who call themselves pro-life, but
there is common ground among so
many of us. For example, Americans
with many different views on abortion
overwhelmingly believe that Roe v.
Wade should remain the law of the
land. More than 70 percent of Ameri-
cans support the decision and believe it
shouldn’t be overturned.
People understand that, whatever
they think about abortion for them-
selves and their own families, they do
not believe the State should make the
decision for every woman. Women
should be able to make their own deci-
sions about pregnancy, contraception,
and abortion without State inter-
ference, and appropriate regulation of
abortion, just as of other medical pro-
cedures, especially late in a pregnancy
when a fetus could survive independ-
ently, is allowable as long as the life
and health of the mother receive care-
ful protection.
In addition to the support for Roe v.
Wade, there is also common ground
based on data about strategies that
work, and I want to offer a common-
ground perspective on this issue. There
is a way to dramatically reduce abor-
tion in this country that both pro-life
and pro-choice should embrace. It is a
strategy of compassion. Let me start
with a noteworthy fact that is almost
never mentioned.
During the last 25 years, which is the
time I have been in elected office, the
abortion rate in this country has been
cut in half. This is remarkable. You
never hear this discussed. By 2015, dur-
ing the Obama administration, the
abortion rate in the United States was
at its lowest level since Roe v. Wade
became law. In fact, if you were to just
measure it by the data, you could
argue that the Obama administration’s
years were the most pro-life period
since Roe v. Wade.
Why has this happened?
While there are a number of reasons,
the most important one is this: The
rate of unplanned pregnancies is de-
creasing. Teen pregnancies are decreas-
ing. If the number of unplanned preg-
nancies goes down, the abortion rate
goes down. There is a direct connection
between unplanned pregnancies and the
abortion rate.
So here is the strategy that should
unite everyone: Reduce the number of
unplanned pregnancies. Could anyone
be against that? Reduce the number of
unplanned pregnancies.
The good news is that we know how
to do it. When women have better ac-
cess to affordable healthcare, including
better access to contraception and bet-
ter access to comprehensive sex edu-
cation, the number of unplanned preg-
nancies goes down, and the number of
abortions drops. We know that more
women have access to healthcare and
contraception today than in the past.
The passage of the Affordable Care Act
and the 36 States that have expanded
Medicaid have provided millions of
women with healthcare, so many of
whom didn’t have it before, including
preventive care and contraception ac-
cess.
Comprehensive sex education for
young people also equips them with in-
formation that is necessary to avoid
unplanned pregnancies. Some young
people decide to delay becoming sexu-
ally active, and that is great. Some
make better choices about contracep-
tion to avoid pregnancy, and that is
helpful. So education is a key factor as
well. Whatever we call ourselves—pro-
choice, pro-life, or anything—if we
want to keep reducing unplanned preg-
nancies and, thereby, reducing the
abortion rate, guess what. We know
just how to do it: Make sure kids get
comprehensive sex education so they
can make more responsible choices,
and keep working to expand
healthcare, including access to contra-
ception for women. This is the compas-
sionate way to bring down the abortion
rate. It supports women, trusts their
decisions, and succeeds in reducing un-
planned pregnancies.
Yet here is something that puzzles
me. The GOP legislators all across this
country have generally opposed, quite
bitterly, those proven strategies, and
so have many in the pro-life commu-
nity. The GOP has fought the Afford-
able Care Act every step of the way,
and it now stands squarely behind the
effort to repeal the act entirely and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.004 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3069
May 23, 2019
strip healthcare away from millions of
women.
The GOP fights against contracep-
tion access. Many in the GOP fight
against comprehensive sex education.
Instead, they push abstinence-only sex
education curricula that doesn’t work.
If the GOP succeeds in killing the ACA
and in reducing contraception access,
the number of unplanned pregnancies
will increase, and the abortion rate
will increase. How is that pro-life?
The GOP is now embracing a dif-
ferent strategy—making women and
doctors criminals. This is the key uni-
fying cruelty to these recent State
laws. GOP-controlled States are racing
to see who can have the cruelest crimi-
nal laws—a complete ban on abortion
at 8 weeks of pregnancy. No, how about
a complete ban on abortion at 6 weeks
of pregnancy?
In Alabama, there is a ban from the
second the pregnancy begins, from the
second there is a fetus in utero, and
there are no exceptions to someone
who is the victim of rape or incest.
Think about that. Alabama forces a 13-
year-old who was raped or was the vic-
tim of incest to bear a criminal’s child
under pain of criminal prosecution and
punishment—imprisonment—for the
doctor.
Wait. Let’s get tougher still.
In Georgia, women who terminate
pregnancies could receive life in prison
under a bill that was recently signed
by the Georgia Governor. There is
some confusion here. Prosecutors argue
about whether the technical language
would subject a woman who has an
abortion to a first-degree murder
charge. The sponsor of the bill, now
that it has been signed, is back-
pedaling, saying he only intended for
women to be prosecuted under a sepa-
rate criminal abortion statute that
carries a maximum sentence of 10
years. He apparently believes that sub-
jecting women to 10-year prison sen-
tences rather than to life sentences for
murder is merciful and lenient. No
woman exercising her constitutional
right to make her own healthcare deci-
sions should be threatened with a pris-
on sentence of even 1 day.
The GOP could go further.
A Texas bill filed last month would
have allowed the death penalty—cap-
ital punishment—for a woman who
seeks an abortion. The bill failed, but
the bill wasn’t a surprise from the
party whose President admitted during
his campaign that a woman who has an
abortion must suffer a punishment.
So the GOP’s strategy is for more
criminal laws, more prosecutions, and
more sentences—put more women in
prison, and put more doctors in prison.
We already have the highest incarcer-
ation in the world—five times higher
than Canada’s and 70 percent higher
than Russia’s. Guess what. So many of
these GOP proposals would push us
even further, and the next big group
going behind bars could be women and
doctors.
These criminal laws don’t bring
about a culture of life. These criminal
laws don’t bring about a culture of
compassion. They succeed only in de-
monizing women, robbing them of their
dignity, and intruding upon the most
private aspects of their lives, and they
demonize the doctors who care for
these women.
Do Americans want a society that la-
bels women’s healthcare choices as
criminal? No.
Is there any proof that criminal pen-
alties for abortion will reduce un-
planned pregnancies? No.
Is there any proof that criminal pen-
alties for abortion will reduce the num-
ber of abortions? No.
That is what I mean about the choice
we face as a society. We can pursue a
path of compassion toward women and
be secure in the knowledge that better
health and contraception access and
comprehensive sex education will re-
duce unplanned pregnancies and abor-
tions, or we can pursue the path of
criminalizing women’s decisions with
there being no evidence that the strat-
egy will have the effect of reducing un-
planned pregnancies and abortions.
I have focused most of my attention
on the issue of unplanned pregnancies.
Of course, some planned pregnancies
end in abortion, too. Most often, these
pregnancies involve severe maternal or
severe fetal health issues that are emo-
tional and tragic for all involved. Cer-
tainly, compassion toward these fami-
lies and not criminal prosecution is the
right answer. This question—do we use
a compassionate strategy to reduce un-
planned pregnancies or do we crim-
inalize women’s decisions?—is the fun-
damental difference between the Na-
tion’s two political parties on this very
important issue right now.
I am firmly in the camp of compas-
sion. If we support women and trust
women, we can keep making signifi-
cant progress toward a goal we should
all share: fewer unplanned pregnancies
and fewer abortions.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, let
me say how much I agree with the Sen-
ator from Virginia. I endorse com-
pletely what he said. I would make one
amendment. Instead of just the com-
passion approach versus the criminal
approach, it is the commonsense ap-
proach versus the criminal approach as
well.
I do believe that the point has been
made and demonstrated by what my
colleague said here and what he has
said in previous meetings that when we
invest in family planning and sex edu-
cation and good healthcare for women,
we have fewer unplanned pregnancies
and fewer abortions, period. Those poli-
cies that militate against that just in-
crease the likelihood of abortion.
Let me also add something that I
think pro-life and pro-choice should
agree to come to terms with in unity.
How in the world can we live in a coun-
try—the United States of America—
with all its wealth and all its expertise,
and have in the last 25 years the worst
incidence of maternal mortality in civ-
ilized countries around the world?
More women are dying in the United
States giving birth today than 25 years
ago. Whether you are pro-life or pro-
choice, wouldn’t you agree this should
be a high priority of our government—
both parties—to reduce maternal mor-
tality here in the United States?
I might add that infant mortality is
still unacceptable in the United States.
The rate of it is unacceptable.
Couldn’t we agree, pro-life and pro-
choice, to come together behind those
two?
I am a cosponsor of a bill introduced
by Congresswoman ROBIN KELLY of Illi-
nois that she aptly entitled the
‘‘MOMMA Act,’’ which will try to deal
with maternal mortality issues, par-
ticularly as they relate to women of
color. And the irony, the surprise is
that when you read the data, the inci-
dence of maternal mortality among
women of color does not track with
poverty and education. It is a racial
issue for reasons that are hard to ex-
plain, but she addresses it, and I have
joined her in that effort.
The other point I would like to make
is this: My colleague from Virginia has
talked about efforts in State legisla-
tures that have gone to extremes. What
I call the Alabama two-step is the sec-
ond step in that process.
We spend our time day after day,
week after week putting men and
women on the bench who were proposed
by the Trump administration and
pushed through as quickly as possible
by the Republicans in the Senate who,
frankly, are waiting for the day when
they will have a chance to endorse, ap-
prove these statutes my colleague has
described, which are extreme by any
definition. That, to me, is problematic
and troublesome for us as a nation,
that we are moving toward that possi-
bility.
I see that the Senator from South
Dakota is on floor, and I believe he has
a request to make.
I would like to ask unanimous con-
sent, after his request, to be recognized
again.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT
AGREEMENT—S. 151
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that at 12:45 p.m.
today, the Senate proceed to legisla-
tive session to consider Calendar No.
94, S. 151; I further ask that the com-
mittee-reported substitute amendment
be agreed to, the bill, as amended, be
read a third time, and the Senate vote
on passage of the bill, as amended, with
no intervening action or debate; fi-
nally, that if passed, the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.006 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3070 May 23, 2019
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
f
IRAN
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I see
another colleague on the floor, so I will
make my comments brief.
We had a briefing this week in a
room in the Capitol that the public is
not allowed to enter; it is called the
SCIF. It was a briefing that is given to
Members of the Senate of top-secret,
classified information. It related to the
situation in which we now find our-
selves in relation to Iran.
It was troubling to hear the com-
ments being made by the leaders of the
Trump administration—the Secretary
of Defense and the Secretary of State,
as well as military leaders and leaders
in the intelligence community.
You see, what we are engaging in in
the United States is a confrontation
with Iran. We are moving toward that.
It started with this President’s insist-
ence that the United States step away
from a treaty entered into by the
Obama administration to stop the de-
velopment of nuclear weapons in Iran.
What President Obama succeeded in
doing over many years of diplomatic
effort was to come to the table with
Iran—an enemy of the United States on
many fronts—and to reach an agree-
ment where there would be inter-
national inspectors with free access to
Iran to make certain they did not de-
velop nuclear weapons. We believed—
the world believed that Iran with nu-
clear weapons would be a danger to the
region, a danger to our ally Israel, and
even a danger to the United States.
The coalition put together by Presi-
dent Obama was nothing short of re-
markable. You wouldn’t be surprised to
learn the coalition included the United
Kingdom, our traditional ally, but it
also included Germany, France, the
European Union, Russia, and China.
Russia and China. All came to the
table and agreed on it.
Did it work? International inspectors
came and reported to Members of Con-
gress over and over that there were no
locked doors, no areas where access
was denied, and that they could say
with virtual certainty that Iran was
living up to the terms of this agree-
ment.
So what did this President, President
Trump, decide to do? He canceled U.S.
participation in the agreement. Why?
Why would he believe that the develop-
ment of nuclear weapons in Iran is in
the best interest of anyone? Yet he did.
He followed that with even more pro-
vocative efforts in relation to Iran
when it came to categorizing the Revo-
lutionary Guard as a terrorist organi-
zation—a step that moved even closer
to provocation and confrontation. And
then, of course, we decided to send our
own military closer in to Iran itself. A
carrier group was dispatched to that
region.
What is behind all this? Why is it
that we are escalating the situation
with Iran? The President has been
equivocal in trying to explain it, but
his National Security Advisor, John
Bolton, has not. John Bolton is a hawk.
His position and his posture when it
comes to military confrontation was so
controversial that in a previous admin-
istration, he was denied the position of
Ambassador to the United Nations be-
cause of statements he had made. Now
he is the top national security advisor
to the President of the United States.
He has written articles pleading for
confrontation with Iran on a military
basis.
Rumors fly out of the Pentagon—this
morning’s Washington Post suggestion
that we are already sending 10,000 more
military advisors into the region; a
rumor 2 weeks ago that there was a
contingency plan for 120,000 American
troops. I might add that the Secretary
of Defense, in my office this morning,
denied both of these, but the fact is,
more and more information is tum-
bling out about a confrontation with
Iran.
I will tell you that some of us—a
handful of us in the Senate—were here
on the Senate floor when we debated
and voted on a war in Iraq. It was 18
years ago. We were given information
by the Bush administration and par-
ticularly Vice President Cheney about
the danger of Iraq to the United States
of America, to the point where a vote
came to the floor, and the Senate ap-
proved an invasion of Iraq.
I remember that night. I remember it
well. Twenty-three of us—one Repub-
lican and twenty-two Democrats—
joined together in voting no. It may
have been the most important and
maybe the best vote I believe I ever
cast as a Member of the Senate.
It was a foreign policy mistake to in-
vade Iraq. What followed was a trag-
edy. We have spent billions and billions
of American taxpayers’ dollars in that
country. We have lost over 4,000 Amer-
ican lives in Iraq, and over 30,000 or
40,000 came home with serious injuries,
including my colleague in the Senate,
Senator TAMMY DUCKWORTH. We have
paid so dearly for that mistake.
The weapons of mass destruction we
were sent in to destroy did not exist.
What was told to the American people
about the danger of Iraq was false—
false. We are still there today, 18 years
later, as we are in Afghanistan—the
two longest wars in the history of the
United States of America. Is there any-
one who believed when we voted on the
Senate floor that we were voting for
the longest war in the history of the
United States?
Now this administration, the Trump
administration, is tempted to draw us
into another war in the Middle East.
The question is whether Members of
the Senate and the House of Represent-
atives will abide by the constitutional
responsibility and demand that the
American people, through our voices,
have something to say about this deci-
sion.
If the American people are ready for
a war in Iran, I would be shocked. As I
travel around the State of Illinois and
other parts of this country, I find no
sentiment for the United States to en-
gage in another war at this moment in
our history. I also find most people be-
lieving that the provocative and
confrontational efforts of the Trump
administration are drawing us nearer
to that day.
So we leave now for a week. We will
be back, but what will happen in the 7
or 8 days we are gone? I worry about
that based on the briefings we have
been given and the appetite of John
Bolton and others in this administra-
tion to move us into war.
We should not invade Iran. We should
not engage in another invasion in the
Middle East. We should not subject
America’s young men and young
women to the possibility of military
service in another war that can go on
indefinitely. There are better ways to
deal with this. Let’s rely on diplomacy
and direct negotiation. Let’s work with
our allies to bring a peaceable result
here and to stop activity which we
know Iran is engaged in which is objec-
tionable. It can be done short of inva-
sion, short of military force, and short
of war.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I
give heartfelt thanks to my colleague
from Illinois for bringing the experi-
ence of his service in the Senate and
his deliberate study of the challenges
of international affairs to bear on the
gravity of the current situation where
a policy has brought us to the brink of
conflict and we have no confidence that
there is wise judgment being exercised
at this moment to ensure that there is
not a war.
I thank him for sharing the journey
that he has been a part of and that this
Chamber has been part of and ringing
the alarm bell that at this moment, we
have two key foreign policy advisors—
our Secretary of State and our Na-
tional Security Advisor—who prefer
weapons over agreements, who have
driven a strategy of maximum pressure
designed to make life extraordinarily
difficult in Iran, to undo all the inter-
national work of the previous years to
end the nuclear program in that coun-
try, and who are talking as if a conflict
somewhere—maybe an Iranian militia
in Iraq—should be a trigger to a mas-
sive war, which is why we are so wor-
ried about leaving this Chamber for
even a day.
I thank him for raising his voice and
sharing his experience.
f
TRIBUTE TO LOUIE RECKFORD
Mr. MERKLEY. Madam President, I
come to the floor because I am losing a
key member of my foreign policy team
who has wrestled with the issues of the
Middle East and who has been engaged
in the dialogue and conversation about
a smart policy to end nuclear prolifera-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.007 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3071
May 23, 2019
I can tell you that it is always, for
any Senator, a moment that one has a
conflicted heart when a man or a
woman on their team who has contrib-
uted so much and has become part of
the family, the Senate family, is ready
to take on a new challenge away from
these Chambers to develop their skills
and to take their experience to a new
extended conversation. It is a bitter-
sweet moment.
We are proud of what our team mem-
bers have contributed and proud of
what they are going to contribute as
they go off to a new responsibility.
Today, that member of my team is
Louie Reckford. Louie, seated behind
me, first came to my office in the fall
of 2013 as part of that semester’s intern
class, and it wasn’t long before he
stood out, distinguished himself, and
thus, when we were hiring a deputy
scheduler the following March, Louie’s
name was at the top of the list, and he
formally became a part of our team.
So for more than 5 years now, he has
contributed. He has never stopped dis-
tinguishing himself, taking on one task
and one position after another and ex-
celling at every one of them. In his 2
years as deputy scheduler, Louie field-
ed thousands of requests for meetings,
from constituents, from nonprofits,
from local businesses and more, mak-
ing sure that every detail was right.
His attention to detail and to turn-
around time made a very positive im-
pression with all who contacted our of-
fice.
Over the last 3 years, he has been an
invaluable member of my correspond-
ence and foreign policy team, first as
legislative correspondent and later as
legislative aide. On top of sending out
181,000 pieces of constituent mail, mail
from my office to my constituents, an
average of 251 per day—on top of that,
he has used his considerable leadership
skills and subject-matter experience
and strategic negotiating abilities to
help pass a host of bills and resolutions
in committee and here on the floor.
When our foreign policy top staffer was
transitioning into a new role as legisla-
tive director, he stepped up to fill the
gap, helping to manage a team with
two foreign policy fellows at that time.
I could spend quite a lot more time ex-
tolling his list of accomplishments—
his instrumental role in planning sev-
eral international congressional dele-
gations, his role in helping me carve
out a new role on the Foreign Rela-
tions Committee, and, of course, that
vital role of leading our office softball
team.
I will just say that Louie will be
deeply missed by all members of Team
Merkley, and we wish him well in his
new adventure with Foreign Policy for
America, where he will continue to be
an invaluable leader of a myriad num-
ber of pressing foreign policy issues
confronting our Nation today.
Louie Reckford, we here in the Sen-
ate wish you all the best in your next
chapter of contributing to solving the
complex international issues that face
our Nation.
Thank you, Madam President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
f
DISASTER RELIEF
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, the
Appropriations Committee staff was
working until midnight last night, as
they do so often, on the disaster sup-
plement. We know that in January the
House sent us a disaster supplemental
appropriations bill to help commu-
nities across the Nation. These commu-
nities were dealing with the deadly
aftermath of hurricanes, floods, earth-
quakes, and volcanoes.
It has been my experience over the
years that normally disaster bills sail
through both Chambers of Congress.
Every Member knows that one day it
will be his State or her State that
needs help recovering from a disaster.
I well remember when we had a ter-
rible hurricane in Vermont; it created
the most damage in generations in our
State. The day after the devastation, I
went with our Governor and the head
of our National Guard in a helicopter
to survey the damage. For many towns,
the only way we could reach them was
in a helicopter. The bridges were like a
child’s toy, twisted and gone. The
roads totally disappeared. Houses were
upside down in the river.
It was heartbreaking, but as we were
going there, I received email after
email. My Senate colleagues, many of
them Republicans, said ‘‘Vermont
stood with us when we had’’—and they
named the disaster. ‘‘We will stand
with you.’’ That is what we do. It
doesn’t make any difference whether
you are a Republican or a Democrat; if
there is a disaster, you stand together.
What I cannot understand is that in
my 44 years here—it was different this
time. When we brought up a disaster
supplemental appropriations bill in
January of this year, the President of
the United States came out swinging
against it. Why? Because the bill con-
tained assistance for Puerto Rico.
Puerto Rico had been hit by 2 back-to-
back, category 5 hurricanes, and appar-
ently providing assistance to 3 million
Americans in need was a step too far
for him. He did not want to provide aid
to these Americans. ‘‘Not one more
dime for Puerto Rico’’ he was reported
to have said—shocking words for some-
body who holds the highest office in
the land, especially after they had
nearly unprecedented back-to-back
hurricanes.
From the beginning, I have said what
my Republican colleagues and Demo-
cratic colleagues have always said. It is
a role of the Federal Government to
stand by all Americans in times of
need. It should not matter whether you
are a Georgia peach farmer, a Cali-
fornia small business owner, or a child
living in San Juan. If your community
is devastated by a natural disaster, you
are an American, and the American
community will stand with you. That
is what I have always fought for.
So here we are, 5 months later—5
months of negotiations, 5 months of
talks—and we finally reach a deal on a
disaster aid bill that helps all—all
Americans. We don’t pick and choose.
It is a good deal. It addresses the need
from Alabama to California and many
States in between. But 5 months is too
long to wait. It is far too long for the
communities who are trying to rebuild
their homes and their towns, so we
have to act now.
The President has asked that we add
$4.5 million to the disaster supple-
mental bill to address the issues that
we face at our southern border. I agree
with the President that some of this
money is badly needed. We don’t dis-
pute that. But everyone in this Cham-
ber, Republicans and Democrats,
knows that under this President, any-
thing to do with immigration is con-
troversial; it is going to be hotly de-
bated. We have been working night and
day to strike a compromise on the
President’s request. When we finished
in the middle of last night, we were
close, but we are not there yet.
I hope in the next few hours we can
resolve our remaining differences, but
if we cannot reach agreement, then at
least pass the disaster bill without it
today—not tomorrow, not next week,
not next month—today. Five months
has been too long for America to have
to wait.
We have a deal on the disaster aid
bill. It is a bipartisan bill. It is sup-
ported by Democrats and Republicans.
It is ready to go. Let’s pass it today,
and let’s show the American people we
stand with them in times of crisis, just
as Members of this body stood with my
beloved State of Vermont when we
were hit. We didn’t say we are Repub-
licans or Democrats. We said that we
are Americans, and Americans have
been hurt, and Americans stand to-
gether when we are suffering. Today,
Americans are suffering across this
country. Let us—as the conscience of
the Nation, the U.S. Senate, let us
stand with them, and let’s get the dis-
aster aid they need.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SASSE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECESS
Mr. SASSE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
stand in recess until noon today.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 10:57 a.m., recessed until 12 noon and
reassembled when called to order by
the Presiding Officer (Mrs. FISCHER).
f
MORNING BUSINESS—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.009 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3072 May 23, 2019
HONORING SERGEANT VERDELL
SMITH
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Presi-
dent, yesterday, Tennesseans were
really filled with a bittersweet pride as
President Trump awarded post-
humously the Public Safety Officer
Medal of Valor to a heroic Tennessean,
Sergeant Verdell Smith.
His watch with the Memphis Police
Department ended on June 4, 2016. On
that day, an armed gunman stole a car
and led Memphis police on a chase into
the downtown area. Officer Smith re-
sponded to the call and worked quickly
to clear the pedestrians from an inter-
section directly in the path of a speed-
ing car. Then the unthinkable hap-
pened. Before the police were able to
apprehend him, the gunman crashed
through a barrier and fatally struck
Officer Smith.
Valor is a word that is defined as
‘‘great personal bravery.’’ Valor, you
don’t hear it a lot, but valor is that
great personal bravery in the face of
danger, and I think there is no better
way to describe the actions of Officer
Smith.
I honor him on behalf of all Ten-
nesseans for his service in the U.S.
Navy, for his 18 years with the Mem-
phis Police Department, and for his
final act of heroism.
f
MEMORIAL DAY
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Presi-
dent, as I reflected on Sergeant
Smith’s story, I began to think about
Memorial Day and the ways we honor
the valor of every soldier who has made
that ultimate sacrifice. One of the first
official Memorial Day observances was
in 1868, and it was just over the Poto-
mac River in Arlington National Ceme-
tery. If you have not been there to
honor those who have given the ulti-
mate sacrifice, I encourage you to do
that.
In 1868, individuals gathered to honor
those who had lost their life in the
Civil War, and they gathered to deco-
rate the graves of the fallen, both the
Union and Confederate soldiers. This
set a precedent for what would become
a national day of unity. Think about
that, a national day of unity, of
mourning, and of remembrance. As the
years went by, Americans took greater
steps to memorialize the fallen and
those who have exercised valor and
have chosen to make that ultimate
sacrifice.
After World War I, observances were
expanded to honor those who fell in all
American wars. Finally, it was in 1971
that Congress declared Memorial Day
to be a national holiday. Since then,
each year, at the end of May, cities
across the Nation have lowered their
flags to half-staff as a silent reminder
of the cost of the freedom.
Just like Sergeant Smith, the fallen
warriors we honor this Memorial Day
made a choice to serve this Nation.
They knew it wouldn’t be easy. They
knew it would be dangerous or even
deadly, but they knew that it would be
worth it because it would be a step in
preserving freedom and freedom’s
cause. It is this choice—and the choice
to serve bravely and selflessly on be-
half of a grateful nation—that we re-
member, as we debated crucial legisla-
tion supporting our Armed Forces.
Memorial Day marks the conclusion
of Military Appreciation Month, which
has provided each of us an opportunity
to unite and reflect upon the heroic
courage of all the members of our
Armed Forces. We thank them contin-
ually for the service they provided and
the sacrifices that they and their fami-
lies make on behalf of this Nation and
freedom.
Yesterday, members of the Armed
Services Committee—of which Madam
President and I are each a member of
this committee—completed our first
steps in ensuring that this year’s Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act fully
funds the resources our military needs
to defend against the threats that we
face on land, by sea, in air, and of
course in the cyber realm. Our pro-
posed $750 billion national defense
budget will more than support this
goal and includes a much-needed and
well-deserved pay increase for our mili-
tary men and women.
The NDAA, as it is called in an acro-
nym that we hear around here so regu-
larly, is just one piece of our greater
promise to care for soldiers on and off
the battlefield. As Members of Con-
gress, we have a duty to keep the
promise to those who bravely defend
the safety and the security of the
American people. Also, we have a re-
sponsibility to those whose broken-
hearted vigil we join this Memorial
Day weekend.
Just as valor lived in the hearts of
the fallen, so does their sacrifice en-
dure in the life of every person blessed
to call this great country home.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. I ask unani-
mous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
END MASS DEPORTATION ACT
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Madam Presi-
dent, I take to the floor today to urge
my colleagues to halt the President’s
indiscriminate deportation regime.
This administration is targeting immi-
grants who are deeply woven into our
communities, and this inhumane ap-
proach must end.
For 30 years, David Chavez-Macias,
who was born in Mexico, lived in Reno,
NV. He worked as a landscaper during
the week and went to church on Sun-
days. He raised four children, and he
tried to follow the law. He paid his
taxes and hired attorneys to help him
become an American citizen. In 2013, he
was pulled over for turning left as the
street light changed. That traffic stop
brought him to the attention of immi-
gration enforcement.
Now, the previous administration
had permitted Mr. Chavez-Macias to
stay with his family. After all, he had
a heart condition that required regular
treatment, and he had been a hard-
working community member for dec-
ades; yet under this administration,
David was deported to Mexico, ripping
him from his family.
Now, as a granddaughter of immi-
grants, I understand how much immi-
grants like David contribute to Amer-
ican communities, and as a native Ne-
vadan—a State where one in five
schoolchildren have an undocumented
parent—I know how deeply commu-
nities are hurt when we drive out long-
time members. That is why I am intro-
ducing the End Mass Deportation Act
to keep the Trump administration
from pursuing people like David. This
bill will make sure we are not indis-
criminately targeting people for depor-
tation who have contributed to their
communities for decades.
Just days after taking office, Presi-
dent Trump issued an Executive order
that changed our immigration enforce-
ment priorities. He gave ICE the green
light to aggressively pursue anyone
without papers, not just people who
had committed serious crimes or posed
a threat to our public safety. My bill
rescinds this cruel and counter-
productive order.
Now, the Trump administration is
deporting people who have lived in the
United States—sometimes for dec-
ades—playing by the rules, providing
for their families, starting businesses,
and contributing to their communities.
In Nevada, almost 90 percent of un-
documented residents have been in the
United States for more than 5 years.
These are people who own their own
homes. They are people who pay bil-
lions of dollars in taxes each year.
Their children are citizens, legal per-
manent residents, and Dreamers. They
are our neighbors, our coworkers, and
our friends. The impact of this policy
on American families has been pro-
found. Since President Trump signed
his Executive order, arrests of immi-
grants without criminal records have
tripled.
The End Mass Deportation Act would
make the administration focus our law
enforcement resources where they
should be: on people who pose a legiti-
mate threat to our communities.
Historically, prosecutorial discretion
was used to take into account the com-
pelling circumstances of an individ-
ual’s case, like parents who have U.S.
citizen children and strong ties to the
community or individuals who have
served in our military. As a former
prosecutor, I understand what an im-
portant law enforcement tool this is.
The President’s mass deportation
order ends that prosecutorial discre-
tion in our immigration system, taking
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.010 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3073
May 23, 2019
valuable time and resources away from
pursuing criminals and other security
threats. Even worse, the order makes
us all less safe because it discourages
people without documentation from
turning to police to report crime.
Put yourself in the shoes of an un-
documented woman who is the victim
of domestic violence or someone with-
out papers exploited at the hands of an
unscrupulous boss. When those crimes
go unreported, our neighborhoods suf-
fer.
Listen, I recognize that we have a
broken immigration system, but the
way to fix it isn’t to persecute people
like David whose biggest offense is a
traffic ticket. We need to pass com-
prehensive immigration reform, but
until we do and until we can come to-
gether in a bipartisan way, we must re-
scind these Executive orders that are
not moving this debate forward in a
useful way. Let’s reverse this adminis-
tration’s cruel and dangerous policy.
I am the first to tell you—and I see it
every single day in my State—immi-
grants enlarge our vision of who we
live with, work with, and worship with.
By passing the End Mass Deportation
Act, we will remind all Americans that
every generation of immigrants en-
riches the fabric of our Nation and will
provide the sense of security that every
family with undocumented members
needs to thrive. I urge my colleagues to
support this act.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WICKER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
S. 151
Mr. WICKER. Madam President, in a
few moments, the Senate will vote on
the Telephone Robocall Abuse Crimi-
nal Enforcement and Deterrence Act.
The shorthand name for that is the
TRACED Act. I rise in strong and opti-
mistic support of this legislation at
this time. I thank the leadership on
both sides of the aisle for working to
bring this bill to a vote.
Last month, the people of my State
of Mississippi received over 50 million
robocalls. That is just in the State of
Mississippi, with about 3 million citi-
zens. That is more than 17 robocalls for
every man, woman, or child in my
State—50 million. Imagine what it is
around the country. It is billions and
billions.
Some robocalls are legitimate. When
we get a reminder from a doctor’s of-
fice that our appointment is coming
soon or when a school activity is can-
celed, those are welcome. But many are
not. Most are not.
Billions and billions of robocalls are
scams targeting the most vulnerable
members of our society. These abusive
robocalls have plagued Americans for
years. Studies show that in my part of
the country, the Southeastern United
States, they are particularly abusive
and pervasive, costing consumers bil-
lions of dollars each year and costing
our economy billions of dollars each
year.
Many of these illegal robocalls use
what is referred to as neighbor spoof-
ing, where robocallers somehow man-
age to use a local number and a local
area code in the hope that recipients
will be more likely to pick up the
phone. The result is many Americans
don’t answer those phone calls. They
just let it ring and see if there is a mes-
sage. But Americans also miss impor-
tant calls because of scammers and be-
cause this has been hijacked by the ex-
traordinary networks used by these
scammers and illegal violators of the
law.
The TRACED Act will help. It goes
after abusive and illegal robocallers by
giving consumers, regulators, and law
enforcement tools to fight the people
taking advantage of the system. The
bill will help the Federal Communica-
tions Commission, or the FCC, to crack
down on violators, require phone com-
panies to authenticate calls, and re-
quire the FCC to consider when and
how to make call-blocking services
available to customers.
Perhaps the most important part of
the TRACED Act is that law enforce-
ment will now join the battle. Under
the authority of the U.S. Attorney
General, the bill will get law enforce-
ment fully engaged in the fight to pre-
vent and prosecute robocall violations.
The American people are ready for this
and are demanding this. We can give it
to them in just a few moments when
we vote on final passage.
The bill will task the Attorney Gen-
eral with providing Congress with the
next steps we need to take to stay
ahead of the pestilence of illegal
robocalls.
I thank the bipartisan leadership in
the Commerce Committee for moving
this bill forward and the authors, Sen-
ator THUNE and Senator MARKEY, for
their leadership on this important
issue. I thank my ranking member, the
Senator from Washington, Ms. CANT-
WELL, for her help in getting this im-
portant piece of legislation approved
by a voice vote out of the Commerce
Committee. Also, there is a special
thank-you to Senator SCHATZ and Sen-
ator MORAN for their amendment to
the TRACED Act, which improves the
FCC’s reporting on robocalls and gen-
erally makes the bill better.
I predict an overwhelming majority
vote for this piece of legislation when
it comes up for a vote in just a few mo-
ments. My appreciation goes to all of
those who have participated. My opti-
mism is that this will soon move to
passage in the House of Representa-
tives also.
Thank you.
I see my distinguished colleague
from Massachusetts, the sponsor of
this legislation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, I
rise in support of the TRACED Act, a
piece of legislation that will help all
Americans deal with the epidemic of
robocalls, which afflicts them and their
families every single day of the year.
I thank Chairman WICKER for all of
his assistance in moving this legisla-
tion expeditiously through the legisla-
tive process.
I thank my partner, Senator THUNE
from South Dakota. He and I have
worked very hard to reach this mo-
ment where Democrats and Repub-
licans can come together on an issue,
which we all agree is something that
we have to address in a very serious
way.
So this question of robocalls and
their role in American society, well, it
is a daily deluge of calls that Ameri-
cans experience. It is more than a nui-
sance in 2019. It is a consumer protec-
tion crisis.
Americans across the country face an
epidemic of robocalls bombarding
landlines and mobile phones. While our
phones were once a reliable means of
communication, they have been turned
against us and are now mechanisms for
scammers and fraudsters who wish to
do us harm. The numbers are stag-
gering.
In 2018, consumers received an esti-
mated 48 billion robocalls—18 billion
more than in 2017. That is 131 million
robocalls per day—more than 5 million
calls an hour, more than 1,000 calls per
second in the United States, and nearly
500 million robocalls to Massachusetts
residents alone.
The reality is that we no longer have
confidence in our phones. What was
once a trusted means of communica-
tion, our phone has become a tool for
fraud, scams, harassment, and an ave-
nue by which individuals with bad in-
tent can access our homes, our purses,
or our pockets at any time.
Caller ID is not trusted. Important
calls go unanswered. Innocent Ameri-
cans are defrauded. Our seniors, in par-
ticular, are targeted. Robocalls are a
menace. But today, the U.S. Senate is
saying loud and clear that robocall re-
lief is in sight.
I am proud to partner with Senator
JOHN THUNE from South Dakota on the
Telephone Robocall Abuse Criminal
Enforcement and Deterrence Act, or
TRACED Act. Our legislation cracks
down on scammers that now account
for nearly one-half of all of the
robocalls in our country. It is an unbe-
lievable number. One-half of all of the
robocalls are now being delivered by
scammers trying to take advantage of
innocent Americans.
Years ago, scammers needed expen-
sive, sophisticated equipment to
robocall and robotext consumers en
masse. Today, they just need a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.023 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3074 May 23, 2019
smartphone to target thousands of
phones an hour at literally very little
expense. So something has changed,
and we know it has changed, and this is
our opportunity here today to do some-
thing about it.
These new technologies allow illegal
robocallers to conduct fraud anony-
mously, depriving both Federal regu-
lators and consumers the ability to
identify and punish the culprit. By
passing this legislation today, we are
sending a clear message to these fraud-
ulent robocallers: Your days are num-
bered.
Stopping robocalls requires a simple
formula, which we have included in the
TRACED Act—authentication, No. 1;
blocking, No. 2; and tougher enforce-
ment, No. 3.
First, this bill requires telephone
carriers to adopt call authentication
technologies so that they can verify
that incoming calls are legitimate or
authentic before they reach consumers’
phones. This must be mandatory for
every single phone carrier in the
United States.
Second, the Federal Communications
Commission must require callers to
block unverified calls—fake calls—
something the Commission has yet to
do.
Third, we need to increase from 1
year to 3 years the time for the Federal
Communications Commission to pur-
sue penalties for robocallers that in-
tentionally violate the rules. That is
the recipe for success, and that is what
the TRACED Act does.
This bill we will vote on today has
enormous support across the country:
54 State and Territory attorneys gen-
eral, all of the Commissioners at the
Federal Communications Commission
and at the Federal Trade Commission,
major industry associations, and lead-
ing consumer groups endorse the legis-
lation and agree that the TRACED Act
is an essential weapon in combating
the rise of illegal, fraudulent robocalls.
Senator THUNE and I are joined by
over 80 of our colleagues in support of
this bill. This is not a liberal or a con-
servative issue; it is an ‘‘everyone’’
issue. It affects the elderly, the young,
the small business owner, and the stu-
dent. Our grandparents, our neighbors,
our teachers, and our coworkers—
today, no one is spared from this con-
sumer protection pandemic.
Senator THUNE and I have worked to-
gether, but it would not have been pos-
sible without the great work of groups
like the National Consumer Law Cen-
ter, AARP, Consumer Reports, Con-
sumer Federation of America, Con-
sumer Action, the National Associa-
tion of Attorneys General, USTelecom,
CTIA, NTCA, and so, so many more.
These groups joined the chorus of
countless Americans who have raised
their voices and called on Congress to
pass this bipartisan, commonsense leg-
islation, and we thank each and every
one of them.
There are no blue robocalls. There
are no red robocalls. All there are are
robocalls attacking every home in our
country and every person walking
around with a wireless device on their
person. This is something that we fi-
nally have a chance today to do some-
thing about—to pass meaningful legis-
lation that will begin this process of
curtailing this scourge of robocalls
that is an abuse of every single Amer-
ican every single day of the year.
We thank everyone for all of their
great work on this issue. Again, I
thank my great partner, JOHN THUNE,
and his staff for their partnership on
this legislation. I thank my staff—Joey
Wender, who is sitting out here on the
floor; Daniel Greene; and, as well, Ben-
nett Butler, who is sitting right behind
me. They worked on a bipartisan basis
with Republican staffers to craft this
very important piece of legislation.
Again, I thank Senator THUNE and I
thank Senator WICKER for ensuring
that America now has a chance to see
that this body is going to work to
begin an end to this epidemic.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip.
Mr. THUNE. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the order for the quorum call
be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, pret-
ty much every American has had to
deal with illegal robocalls. How many
times have you answered the phone
only to discover it is an automated
message saying that you have won a
contest that you never entered or ask-
ing you to provide personal informa-
tion like your bank account or Social
Security number?
Illegal robocalls, I think we can all
agree, are a major nuisance, and too
often they are not just a nuisance.
Scammers use these calls to success-
fully prey on vulnerable populations
like elderly Americans who are some-
times less technologically savvy.
Scammers target the kind of personal
information that can be used to steal
your money and your identity, and
when scammers are successful, the con-
sequences for their victims can be dev-
astating.
Well, there are laws and fines in
place right now to prevent scam artists
from preying on Americans through
the telephone. These measures have
been insufficient. In many cases,
robocall scammers simply build the
current fines into the cost of doing
business. On top of this, the Federal
Communications Commission’s en-
forcement efforts are hampered by a
tight time window for pursuing viola-
tors.
That is why I introduced the legisla-
tion before us today, the Telephone
Robocall Abuse Criminal Enforcement
and Deterrence Act, or the TRACED
Act, along with my fellow Commerce
Committee member, Senator MARKEY.
The TRACED Act provides tools to dis-
courage illegal robocalls, protect con-
sumers, and crack down on offenders.
It expands the window in which the
FCC can pursue intentional scammers
from 1 year to 3 years, and in years 2
and 3, increases the financial penalty
for those individuals making robocalls
from zero dollars to $10,000 per call to
make it more difficult for robocallers
just to figure fines into the cost of
doing business.
It also requires telephone service pro-
viders to adopt new call verification
technologies that would help prevent
illegal robocalls from reaching con-
sumers in the first place. And, impor-
tantly, it convenes a working group
with representatives from the Depart-
ment of Justice, the FCC, the Federal
Trade Commission, the Department of
Commerce, the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, State attorneys
general, and others to identify ways to
criminally prosecute illegal
robocalling.
Criminal prosecution of illegal
robocalling can be challenging.
Scammers are frequently based abroad
and can quickly shut down shop before
authorities have a chance to get to
them, but we need to find ways to hold
scammers criminally accountable.
When scammers are successful, they
can destroy people’s lives, and they
should face criminal prosecution for
the damage they do.
I am very pleased that the TRACED
Act has attracted a tremendous
amount of support from Members of
both parties. In fact, 84 Senators have
signed on as cosponsors of this bill. I
am especially grateful to Senator MAR-
KEY for partnering with me on this leg-
islation. I appreciate Chairman WICKER
and Ranking Member CANTWELL for
prioritizing this bill as they have as-
sumed the reins at the Commerce Com-
mittee.
I am also very pleased that this bill
has attracted tremendous support from
State governments and industry and
consumer groups. All 50 State attor-
neys general support this bill, and it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.013 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3075
May 23, 2019
has been embraced by the AARP,
Verizon, AT&T, CTIA, USTelecom,
NTCA, Consumer Reports, and a num-
ber of other organizations. It is also
supported by all of the current Com-
missioners at the Federal Trade Com-
mission and the Federal Communica-
tions Commission.
I think we all know that the
TRACED Act will not prevent all ille-
gal robocalling. I think we can all
agree it is a big step in the right direc-
tion. It will make life a lot more dif-
ficult for scam artists and help ensure
that more scammers face punishment
for their crimes. I am excited the full
Senate is voting on this bill today, and
I hope that the House will quickly take
it up so that we can get this legislation
to the President’s desk.
Before I close, I would be remiss if I
didn’t quickly thank several staff
members whose tireless efforts helped
get us here today. In my office, I recog-
nize and thank Alex Sachtjen and Nick
Rossi. I am thankful for their dedica-
tion and expertise. I thank Dan Ball
and Crystal Tully, who serve on Chair-
man WICKER’s team at the Commerce
Committee, Daniel Greene on Senator
MARKEY’s staff, and John Branscome
and Shawn Bone on Ranking Member
CANTWELL’s staff. This truly was a
team effort. I am glad that we have an
opportunity to do something that in a
very big bipartisan way will start put-
ting steps forward that will help pre-
vent something that has become a
scourge in the lives of so many Ameri-
cans.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
Mr. MARKEY. Thank you, Madam
President.
Again, I want to thank the Senator
from South Dakota for his great lead-
ership on this legislation. I think it is
a start. It is a revolution in the tele-
communications industry that we are
going to be voting on here today.
I want to thank you so much for your
great leadership.
Once again, I thank Senator WICKER
and Senator CANTWELL for helping to
bring this out here to let the American
people know we are going to take ac-
tion to stop this plague from affecting
their families.
Thank you so much.
Mr. THUNE. I appreciate the com-
ments from the Senator from Massa-
chusetts and also his great work on
this. It has been a team effort and a
great partnership. He and I—although
in many cases we represent different
parts of the country, we all represent
constituents who care deeply about
this issue and want to see their Con-
gress do something about it.
I want to thank the chairman and
the ranking member of the committee.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to legislative session.
TELEPHONE ROBOCALL ABUSE
CRIMINAL ENFORCEMENT AND
DETERRENCE ACT
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to the consideration of S. 151.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 151) to deter criminal robocall
violations and improve enforcement of sec-
tion 227(b) of the Communications Act of
1934, and for other purposes.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the bill, which had been re-
ported from the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation,
with an amendment to strike all after
the enacting clause and insert in lieu
thereof the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Telephone
Robocall Abuse Criminal Enforcement and De-
terrence Act’’ or the ‘‘TRACED Act’’.
SEC. 2. FORFEITURE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 227 of the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(4) CIVIL FORFEITURE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Any person that is deter-
mined by the Commission, in accordance with
paragraph (3) or (4) of section 503(b), to have
violated any provision of this subsection shall be
liable to the United States for a forfeiture pen-
alty pursuant to section 503(b)(1). The amount
of the forfeiture penalty determined under this
subparagraph shall be determined in accordance
with subparagraphs (A) through (F) of section
503(b)(2).
‘‘(B) VIOLATION WITH INTENT.—Any person
that is determined by the Commission, in ac-
cordance with paragraph (3) or (4) of section
503(b), to have violated this subsection with the
intent to cause such violation shall be liable to
the United States for a forfeiture penalty. The
amount of the forfeiture penalty determined
under this subparagraph shall be equal to an
amount determined in accordance with subpara-
graphs (A) through (F) of section 503(b)(2) plus
an additional penalty not to exceed $10,000.
‘‘(C) RECOVERY.—Any forfeiture penalty de-
termined under subparagraph (A) or (B) shall be
recoverable under section 504(a).
‘‘(D) PROCEDURE.—No forfeiture liability shall
be determined under subparagraph (A) or (B)
against any person unless such person receives
the notice required by paragraph (3) or (4) of
section 503(b).
‘‘(E) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—No forfeiture
penalty shall be determined or imposed against
any person—
‘‘(i) under subparagraph (A) if the violation
charged occurred more than 1 year prior to the
date of issuance of the required notice or notice
of apparent liability; and
‘‘(ii) under subparagraph (B) if the violation
charged occurred more than 3 years prior to the
date of issuance of the required notice or notice
of apparent liability.
‘‘(F) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Notwith-
standing any law to the contrary, the Commis-
sion may not determine or impose a forfeiture
penalty on a person under both subparagraphs
(A) and (B) based on the same conduct.’’; and
(2) by striking subsection (h) and inserting the
following:
‘‘(h) TCPA ENFORCEMENT REPORT.—The Com-
mission shall submit an annual report to Con-
gress regarding the enforcement during the pre-
ceding year of laws, regulations, and policies re-
lating to robocalls and spoofed calls, which re-
port shall include—
‘‘(1) the number of complaints received by the
Commission during the year alleging that a con-
sumer received a robocall or spoofed call;
‘‘(2) the number of citations issued by the
Commission pursuant to section 503 during the
year to enforce any law, regulation, or policy
relating to a robocall or spoofed call;
‘‘(3) the number of notices of apparent liabil-
ity issued by the Commission pursuant to sec-
tion 503 during the year to enforce any law, reg-
ulation, or policy relating to a robocall or
spoofed call; and
‘‘(4) for each notice referred to in paragraph
(3)—
‘‘(A) the amount of the proposed forfeiture
penalty involved;
‘‘(B) the person to whom the notice was
issued; and
‘‘(C) the status of the proceeding.’’.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—The amendments made by
this section shall not affect any action or pro-
ceeding commenced before and pending on the
date of enactment of this Act.
(c) DEADLINE FOR REGULATIONS.—The Federal
Communications Commission shall prescribe reg-
ulations to implement the amendments made by
this section not later than 270 days after the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. CALL AUTHENTICATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) STIR/SHAKEN AUTHENTICATION FRAME-
WORK.—The term ‘‘STIR/SHAKEN authentica-
tion framework’’ means the secure telephone
identity revisited and signature-based handling
of asserted information using tokens standards
proposed by the information and communica-
tions technology industry.
(2) VOICE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘voice serv-
ice’’—
(A) means any service that is interconnected
with the public switched telephone network and
that furnishes voice communications to an end
user using resources from the North American
Numbering Plan or any successor to the North
American Numbering Plan adopted by the Com-
mission under section 251(e)(1) of the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 251(e)(1)); and
(B) includes—
(i) transmissions from a telephone facsimile
machine, computer, or other device to a tele-
phone facsimile machine; and
(ii) without limitation, any service that en-
ables real-time, two-way voice communications,
including any service that requires internet pro-
tocol-compatible customer premises equipment
(commonly known as ‘‘CPE’’) and permits out-
bound calling, whether or not the service is one-
way or two-way voice over internet protocol.
(b) AUTHENTICATION FRAMEWORK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraphs (2)
and (3), not later than 18 months after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Federal Commu-
nications Commission shall require a provider of
voice service to implement the STIR/SHAKEN
authentication framework in the internet pro-
tocol networks of the voice service provider.
(2) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Federal Commu-
nications Commission shall not take the action
described in paragraph (1) if the Commission de-
termines that a provider of voice service, not
later than 12 months after the date of enactment
of this Act—
(A) has adopted the STIR/SHAKEN authen-
tication framework for calls on the internet pro-
tocol networks of the voice service provider;
(B) has agreed voluntarily to participate with
other providers of voice service in the STIR/
SHAKEN authentication framework;
(C) has begun to implement the STIR/SHAK-
EN authentication framework; and
(D) will be capable of fully implementing the
STIR/SHAKEN authentication framework not
later than 18 months after the date of enactment
of this Act.
(3) IMPLEMENTATION REPORT.—Not later than
12 months after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Federal Communications Commission
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.014 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3076 May 23, 2019
shall submit to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate and
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives a report on the deter-
mination required under paragraph (2), which
shall include—
(A) an analysis of the extent to which pro-
viders of a voice service have implemented the
STIR/SHAKEN authentication framework, in-
cluding whether the availability of necessary
equipment and equipment upgrades has im-
pacted such implementation; and
(B) an assessment of the efficacy of the STIR/
SHAKEN authentication framework, as being
implemented under this section, in addressing
all aspects of call authentication.
(4) REVIEW AND REVISION OR REPLACEMENT.—
Not later than 3 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, and every 3 years thereafter,
the Federal Communications Commission, after
public notice and an opportunity for comment,
shall—
(A) assess the efficacy of the call authentica-
tion framework implemented under this section;
(B) based on the assessment under subpara-
graph (A), revise or replace the call authentica-
tion framework under this section if the Com-
mission determines it is in the public interest to
do so; and
(C) submit to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate and
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives a report on the find-
ings of the assessment under subparagraph (A)
and on any actions to revise or replace the call
authentication framework under subparagraph
(B).
(5) EXTENSION OF IMPLEMENTATION DEAD-
LINE.—The Federal Communications Commission
may extend any deadline for the implementation
of a call authentication framework required
under this section by 12 months or such further
amount of time as the Commission determines
necessary if the Commission determines that
purchasing or upgrading equipment to support
call authentication, or lack of availability of
such equipment, would constitute a substantial
hardship in meeting such deadline for a pro-
vider or category of providers of voice service.
(c) SAFE HARBOR AND OTHER REGULATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Federal Communica-
tions Commission shall promulgate rules—
(A) establishing when a provider of voice serv-
ice may block a voice call based, in whole or in
part, on information provided by the call au-
thentication framework under subsection (b);
(B) establishing a safe harbor for a provider of
voice service from liability for unintended or in-
advertent blocking of calls or for the unintended
or inadvertent misidentification of the level of
trust for individual calls based, in whole or in
part, on information provided by the call au-
thentication framework under subsection (b);
and
(C) establishing a process to permit a calling
party adversely affected by the information pro-
vided by the call authentication framework
under subsection (b) to verify the authenticity
of the calling party’s calls.
(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—In establishing the safe
harbor under paragraph (1), the Federal Com-
munications Commission shall consider limiting
the liability of a provider of voice service based
on the extent to which the provider of voice
service—
(A) blocks or identifies calls based, in whole or
in part, on the information provided by the call
authentication framework under subsection (b);
(B) implemented procedures based, in whole or
in part, on the information provided by the call
authentication framework under subsection (b);
and
(C) used reasonable care.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
section shall preclude the Federal Communica-
tions Commission from initiating a rulemaking
pursuant to its existing statutory authority.
SEC. 4. PROTECTIONS FROM SPOOFED CALLS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, and consistent
with the call authentication framework under
section 3, the Federal Communications Commis-
sion shall initiate a rulemaking to help protect
a subscriber from receiving unwanted calls or
text messages from a caller using an
unauthenticated number.
(b) CONSIDERATIONS.—In promulgating rules
under subsection (a), the Federal Communica-
tions Commission shall consider—
(1) the Government Accountability Office re-
port on combating the fraudulent provision of
misleading or inaccurate caller identification re-
quired by section 503(c) of division P of the Con-
solidated Appropriations Act 2018 (Public Law
115–141);
(2) the best means of ensuring that a sub-
scriber or provider has the ability to block calls
from a caller using an unauthenticated North
American Numbering Plan number;
(3) the impact on the privacy of a subscriber
from unauthenticated calls;
(4) the effectiveness in verifying the accuracy
of caller identification information; and
(5) the availability and cost of providing pro-
tection from the unwanted calls or text messages
described in subsection (a).
SEC. 5. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General, in
consultation with the Chairman of the Federal
Communications Commission, shall convene an
interagency working group to study Government
prosecution of violations of section 227(b) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(b)).
(b) DUTIES.—In carrying out the study under
subsection (a), the interagency working group
shall—
(1) determine whether, and if so how, any
Federal laws, including regulations, policies,
and practices, or budgetary or jurisdictional
constraints inhibit the prosecution of such vio-
lations;
(2) identify existing and potential Federal
policies and programs that encourage and im-
prove coordination among Federal departments
and agencies and States, and between States, in
the prevention and prosecution of such viola-
tions;
(3) identify existing and potential inter-
national policies and programs that encourage
and improve coordination between countries in
the prevention and prosecution of such viola-
tions; and
(4) consider—
(A) the benefit and potential sources of addi-
tional resources for the Federal prevention and
prosecution of criminal violations of that sec-
tion;
(B) whether to establish memoranda of under-
standing regarding the prevention and prosecu-
tion of such violations between—
(i) the States;
(ii) the States and the Federal Government;
and
(iii) the Federal Government and a foreign
government;
(C) whether to establish a process to allow
States to request Federal subpoenas from the
Federal Communications Commission;
(D) whether extending civil enforcement au-
thority to the States would assist in the success-
ful prevention and prosecution of such viola-
tions;
(E) whether increased forfeiture and imprison-
ment penalties are appropriate, such as extend-
ing imprisonment for such a violation to a term
longer than 2 years;
(F) whether regulation of any entity that en-
ters into a business arrangement with a common
carrier regulated under title II of the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 201 et seq.) for
the specific purpose of carrying, routing, or
transmitting a call that constitutes such a viola-
tion would assist in the successful prevention
and prosecution of such violations; and
(G) the extent to which, if any, Department of
Justice policies to pursue the prosecution of vio-
lations causing economic harm, physical dan-
ger, or erosion of an inhabitant’s peace of mind
and sense of security inhibits the prevention or
prosecution of such violations.
(c) MEMBERS.—The interagency working
group shall be composed of such representatives
of Federal departments and agencies as the At-
torney General considers appropriate, such as—
(1) the Department of Commerce;
(2) the Department of State;
(3) the Department of Homeland Security;
(4) the Federal Communications Commission;
(5) the Federal Trade Commission; and
(6) the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion.
(d) NON-FEDERAL STAKEHOLDERS.—In car-
rying out the study under subsection (a), the
interagency working group shall consult with
such non-Federal stakeholders as the Attorney
General determines have the relevant expertise,
including the National Association of Attorneys
General.
(e) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 270
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the
interagency working group shall submit to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation of the Senate and the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce of the House of Representa-
tives a report on the findings of the study under
subsection (a), including—
(1) any recommendations regarding the pre-
vention and prosecution of such violations; and
(2) a description of what progress, if any, rel-
evant Federal departments and agencies have
made in implementing the recommendations
under paragraph (1).
SEC. 6. ACCESS TO NUMBER RESOURCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) EXAMINATION OF FCC POLICIES.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Federal Communications Commission
shall commence a proceeding to determine
whether Federal Communications Commission
policies regarding access to number resources,
including number resources for toll free and
non-toll free telephone numbers, could be modi-
fied, including by establishing registration and
compliance obligations, to help reduce access to
numbers by potential perpetrators of violations
of section 227(b) of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(b)).
(2) REGULATIONS.—If the Federal Communica-
tions Commission determines under paragraph
(1) that modifying the policies described in that
paragraph could help achieve the goal described
in that paragraph, the Commission shall pre-
scribe regulations to implement those policy
modifications.
(b) AUTHORITY.—Any person who knowingly,
through an employee, agent, officer, or other-
wise, directly or indirectly, by or through any
means or device whatsoever, is a party to ob-
taining number resources, including number re-
sources for toll free and non-toll free telephone
numbers, from a common carrier regulated
under title II of the Communications Act of 1934
(47 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), in violation of a regula-
tion prescribed under subsection (a) of this sec-
tion, shall, notwithstanding section 503(b)(5) of
the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
503(b)(5)), be subject to a forfeiture penalty
under section 503 of that Act. A forfeiture pen-
alty under this subsection shall be in addition to
any other penalty provided for by law.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the committee-re-
ported substitute amendment is agreed
to.
The committee-reported amendment
in the nature of a substitute was
agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the third time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.008 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3077
May 23, 2019
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill, as amended,
pass?
Mr. WICKER. Madam President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE) and the
Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
ROUNDS).
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 97,
nays 1, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 127 Leg.]
YEAS—97
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Harris
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—1
Paul
NOT VOTING—2
Inhofe Rounds
The bill (S. 151), as amended, was
passed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table.
The Senator from Texas.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate be
in a period of morning business, with
Senators permitted to speak therein
for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MEMORIAL DAY
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, this is
the weekend before Memorial Day, and
we will be honoring the brave men and
women who have served our Nation and
who gave their lives to protect the very
freedoms that we enjoy today.
Ronald Reagan said:
Freedom is never more than one genera-
tion away from extinction. We didn’t pass it
to our children in the bloodstream. It must
be fought for, protected, and handed on for
them to do the same.
Our Nation is incredibly fortunate
and grateful to have had no shortage of
those who are ready to lead that fight.
Throughout our history, brave men and
women have answered the call to serve
our country. Whether they answered
the call nearly 250 years ago to fight
for our independence or in recent years
to combat the global threat of ter-
rorism, all of them are our heroes.
I have always had tremendous admi-
ration for our servicemembers—some-
thing instilled in me from an early age
because of my dad’s military service.
He was a B–17 pilot in the Army Air
Corps and flew with the Hell’s Angels
in the 303rd Bomb Group out of the 8th
Air Force in World War II. On his 26th
mission over Germany, after leaving
the base in Molesworth, England, and
flying over the English Channel to Ger-
many, he was shot down and captured
as a prisoner of war. By the grace of
God, he survived the Nazi prison camp
where he was interned for the last 4
months of the war.
My dad went on to serve in the Air
Force for 31 years and retired as what
we affectionately called a full-bird
colonel. Both during and after his serv-
ice, he was an unabashed patriot and
demonstrated every day to us, his chil-
dren and family, what it meant to self-
lessly serve your country.
While my dad made it home after the
war, many of his friends and comrades
did not. Like the great soldiers before
them, and many after, they laid down
their lives in service to our country
and the values we embrace as a nation.
This Memorial Day, we remember the
fallen and thank them for the ultimate
sacrifice to preserve our way of life. We
mourn their loss and celebrate the
great gift they have bestowed upon us
and the freedoms they protected.
Since last Memorial Day, we have
lost some incredible servicemembers
who call Texas home. In December, we
said good-bye to Richard Overton,
American’s oldest World War II vet-
eran. At the ripe old age of 112, he had
a lot of wisdom to share, including a
few unlikely tips for living a long life,
like enjoying a little bit of whiskey in
your morning coffee and smoking ci-
gars.
In April, we mourned the loss of
Richard Cole, the 103-year-old World
War II veteran who was part of the
Doolittle Raiders. He and his brothers
in arms carried out a strike on fac-
tories and military installations in
Tokyo, against enormous odds, pro-
viding a desperately needed morale
boost after the attack on Pearl Harbor.
Just last week, we said farewell to
another member of the Greatest Gen-
eration, 100-year-old Bill Hayes. Colo-
nel Hayes was one of the last living
Pearl Harbor veterans and spent nearly
four decades serving in the U.S. Army.
While we honor those who served in
the past, we also celebrate those serv-
ing now and the young men and women
who one day will put on a uniform.
In just a few days, I will have the
privilege of speaking to young Texans
who will be attending one of our coun-
try’s five prestigious military service
academies. I hold the sendoff each year
in Texas to meet the next generation of
our military leaders and to thank them
for their willingness to serve our coun-
try in uniform.
Today, in advance of this holiday
weekend, I would like to say thank you
to the men and women stationed across
my State and the veterans who call
Texas home.
On behalf of a grateful nation, thank
you to all the brave men and women
who lost their lives while fighting for
our freedoms. We will never forget your
service or your sacrifice.
DISASTER RELIEF
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, on an-
other matter, we were all hoping that
the Senate would soon be able to vote
on a disaster aid bill that would send
funds to States throughout the South-
east and Midwest that continue to bat-
tle with the impacts of severe weather.
When a hurricane, tornado, wildfire,
or whatever the case may be, hits your
State, securing funds to help with re-
lief and recovery becomes priority No.
1. I know because after Texas was hit
by Hurricane Harvey in 2017, I worked
with the entire bipartisan Texas dele-
gation to secure funding that would
help both with the immediate after-
math and long-term recovery and re-
building efforts.
We received tremendous support from
our colleagues here in Congress, as well
as President Trump, in making sure
that Texas communities had the fund-
ing and resources they needed. Our
State has made a great deal of progress
since Hurricane Harvey hit, and most
Texans have returned to some sense of
normalcy, but the recovery process is
not over.
In February of last year, Congress
appropriated more than $28 billion in
community development block grants
for disaster recovery, with roughly $12
billion intended specifically for mitiga-
tion purposes. About $4 billion of that
was designated for Texas to fund
projects that will improve resiliency
and help us prepare for future storms.
But as Texans who continue to recover
from Hurricane Harvey have learned,
getting a disaster relief bill passed in
Congress and signed by the President
doesn’t mean the check is in the mail.
It has now been 15 months since that
bill was signed, and Texans haven’t
seen a penny of it. Despite numerous
attempts to get the funding untangled
from the redtape at the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, we are still wait-
ing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.016 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3078 May 23, 2019
That is simply not acceptable. It is
not acceptable to me, it is not accept-
able to Texans still in need, and it
shouldn’t be acceptable to the U.S.
Congress.
I recently introduced a bill that
would ensure that the Office of Man-
agement and Budget wouldn’t stand be-
tween communities impacted by dis-
aster and vital funding appropriated
and approved by Congress. Once signed
into law, it would establish a ‘‘shot
clock’’ requiring the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget to release funds ap-
propriated by Congress within 90 days.
This change would apply not only to
this particular block of funding but to
any funds appropriated to the States
which are being withheld by the Office
of Management and Budget.
With hurricane season just about a
week away, there could not be a more
critical time to act.
It is important for us to come to-
gether in a bipartisan agreement that
can pass the Senate and the House and
get the President’s signature. I hope
that those who are negotiating this
disaster relief bill, including this shot
clock provision, will continue to nego-
tiate in good faith so we can reach a
compromise and reach a result soon.
Communities across our country
need this money for disaster recovery
and mitigation, and they are simply
tired of waiting for Congress to act. I
am hopeful that any agreement will in-
clude this shot clock provision so we
can finally get the roughly $4 billion in
disaster mitigation funding untangled
from Washington redtape and get it to
the Texans who desperately need it.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut
f
MEMORIAL DAY
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
am very proud to be in this Chamber. I
am always enormously grateful to be
in this body, but especially so at the
beginning of this Memorial Day week-
end, when we celebrate the patriotism
and dedication of our brave men and
women in uniform—patriots who serve
our country in so many different ways,
as teachers and firefighters and po-
lice—and the values that bring us to-
gether always as Americans. What we
share is a dedication to the rule of law,
basic rights, which are the reason that
our forbearers and this generation have
fought in parts of the world whose
names we can barely pronounce.
We celebrate those values and the
rule of law in our Constitution on this
day, as we do every day this weekend,
as every weekend, because they guar-
antee the rights that enable us to
march in parades when we wish, gather
with our families, worship, and speak
as we please.
They guarantee also the rights to
privacy that are at the core of our Con-
stitution—the right to be let alone
from governmental interference; the
rights that literally ignited the passion
and fight for freedom in this country;
the right of people to control their des-
tinies, their futures, their bodies.
Those rights are imperiled today as
never before. We are in a dark and dan-
gerous time in this country with the
passage of laws in Alabama and Mis-
souri, Kentucky and Ohio, and in other
States around the country, where the
rights of women are under assault.
But let me say to the men of Amer-
ica, those rights are as important to
you, and that assault on rights is as
critical to you as they are to the
women of America. Women’s
healthcare is under attack. Women’s
reproductive rights are under assault,
and that means that all rights and all
healthcare are gravely threatened. All
of our rights are under attack. That is
the reason today I am introducing the
Women’s Health Protection Act with
my great colleague and friend Senator
BALDWIN of Wisconsin and, in the
House of Representatives, CHU,
FRANKEL, and FUDGE, who led this ef-
fort there. We have actually reintro-
duced it. It has been a longstanding ef-
fort of mine and theirs, and my own
commitment to this cause dates from
my law clerkship to Harry Blackmun
on the U.S. Supreme Court, the year
after he wrote the majority opinion in
Roe v. Wade.
I am proud to be a man standing for
women’s healthcare because women’s
healthcare rights are human rights,
and the men of America need to hear
loud and clear that their stake in this
fight is as big as anyone’s, because this
fight and this debate and this war on
women’s healthcare endanger and im-
peril all of our rights in America.
The Women’s Health Protection Act
protects a woman’s constitutional
right to access an abortion. It is a
right that is absolutely central to her
economic well-being, her mental and
physical health, and her freedom—no
matter where she lives, no matter what
her ZIP code is, no matter what her in-
come, race, or religion is. And it is true
of men, as well, that regardless of
where we live or who we think we are,
those rights are critical to our lives
too.
The Women’s Health Protection Act
is designed to protect the healthcare
providers—some of the real heroes of
women’s healthcare, who are delivering
the best care they can, the care their
patients want and need—from absurd
and medically unnecessary require-
ments. These so-called protections for
women that States have enacted relat-
ing to the width of hallways in clinics
or admitting privileges or waiting peri-
ods are a pretext. They are a disguise,
a ruse to restrict women’s rights to
healthcare.
Under the Women’s Health Protec-
tion Act, no State—none—can restrict
women’s healthcare by judging the
width of hallways or doctors’ privileges
or any of those supposed protections,
which are really pretexts. And those
pushing unconstitutional restrictions
will no longer be able to disguise their
morally repugnant efforts as pro-
tecting women’s healthcare, when,
really, they want to take it away.
The attack on women’s rights that
we saw last week in Alabama was only
the most extreme and restrictive of a
line of actions—demagogic and draco-
nian actions—in our State legislatures
around the country. But they have cre-
ated fear, and they have created dis-
parate effect, so that women are appre-
hensive and anxious. And they should
be.
They are angry, and that is abso-
lutely right. We all should be angry.
We all have a responsibility to stand up
and fight back, because these laws can-
not stand in our country.
We will fight them in the courts. We
will fight them in the statehouses, and
we will fight them here in the Senate
and in the House, as we are doing with
the Women’s Health Protection Act.
These radical and unconstitutional
extreme measures, which simply tell a
woman when she can become pregnant,
involve the Government controlling
her body, which is against the funda-
mental guarantee of our Constitution
in the right to be let alone from unwar-
ranted and illegal Government inter-
ference.
We have had enough of the dangerous
and deadly attacks on women. We have
had it with the meddling politicians
who are getting between women and
their own personal healthcare deci-
sions, interfering with women’s rights
to consult their doctors, their families,
their counselors, and their faith lead-
ers. We have had it with contemptible
assaults on women’s freedom and fu-
tures.
When I worked for Justice Harry
Blackmun, I remember we thought at
the time: All done. All settled. No more
issues with a woman’s right to repro-
ductive rights.
Roe v. Wade was the decisive opinion
of the U.S. Supreme Court, the law of
the land, then and thereafter.
Here we are, decades later, still fight-
ing this needless and senseless battle
for a woman’s right to privacy and
freedom, because there are groups and
individuals in this country who want
to defy the U.S. Constitution. Roe v.
Wade was correctly decided. The U.S.
Supreme Court has reaffirmed it in its
progeny.
Nominees to the courts coming be-
fore the Judiciary Committee have re-
fused to answer my question about
whether it was correctly decided, but
the fact of the matter is, it was, it will
be, and it will remain. But the courage
and strength of women still to assert
their rights, of providers who give
them the care they need, of clinic ac-
cess escorts who every day put their
well-being on the line, of the groups
like the Center for Reproductive
Rights and Planned Parenthood, which
advocate tirelessly, and of the heroes
who keep up the fight and the flame
should inspire us in this Chamber to
say: Enough is enough. Let’s pass the
Women’s Health Protection Act so
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.018 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3079
May 23, 2019
women no longer fear that their rights
will be imperiled regardless of where
they live and where they come from.
We will not be silent. We will not
stop fighting. We will not give up, and
we are not going away.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Senator COLLINS and
Senator SMITH pertaining to the sub-
mission of S. 1657 are printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
Ms. SMITH. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
f
PRESIDENTIAL PARDONS
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, media
outlets have begun reporting that
President Trump is looking into grant-
ing pardons to certain military per-
sonnel who have been convicted of
committing war crimes in both Iraq
and Afghanistan. If these reports are
true, I find this to be most troubling.
I have an article here that appeared
CNN that says:
The idea of pardons of accused service-
members who have not yet gone to trial and
been convicted that is raising the most con-
cern from some military law experts.
The United States’ global influence is
due, in large part, to its reputation for
upholding human rights and adhering
to international humanitarian law and
the law of armed conflict, otherwise
known as the law of war. As Stephen
Preston, a former general counsel of
the Department of Defense, wrote in
the Department of Defense’s Law of
War Manual:
The law of war is part of who we are . . .
the laws of war have shaped the U.S. Armed
Forces as much as they have shaped any
other armed force in the world . . . The law
of war is a part of our military heritage, and
obeying it is the right thing to do . . . the
self-control needed to refrain from violations
of law of war under the stresses of combat is
the same good order and discipline necessary
to operate cohesively and victoriously in
battle.
Five interdependent principles serve
as the foundation of the law of war:
military necessity, humanity, propor-
tionality, distinction, and honor. These
principles are pillars of America’s
moral standing in the world that allow
our military to be the most lethal
fighting force against our adversaries
but also the most respected and re-
vered by citizens of the world.
The principles of the law of war are
aligned with the constitutional values
that our Founding Fathers set forth
and that all generations of U.S. mili-
tary servicemembers have sworn an
oath to uphold and defend against all
enemies, foreign and domestic.
Department of Defense policy states
that ‘‘each member of the armed serv-
ices has a duty to: (1) comply with the
law of war in good faith; and (2) refuse
to comply with clearly illegal orders to
commit violations of the law of war.’’
By virtue of their oath and training,
members of the U.S. military are ac-
countable for their individual and col-
lective actions through the Uniform
Code of Military Justice.
The U.S. Government is also obli-
gated to implement and enforce the
law of war as required by our Nation’s
own domestic laws, policies, regula-
tions, orders, and by the multiple trea-
ty obligations we have with other
countries.
U.S. military members who are in-
vestigated and convicted of violating
the law of war, through the prescribed
Department of Defense investigative
and judicial procedures, have violated
international and domestic laws and
have failed to uphold their oath and
professional ethics. Whether it was My
Lai during Vietnam or Abu Ghraib in
Iraq, we have seen how the horrific
acts committed by a small group of
rogue actors can strategically diminish
America’s global standing, moral lead-
ership, and strengthen our enemies.
We Americans combat extremism,
tyranny, and hate to preserve our way
of life. Under no circumstance is adapt-
ing to the behaviors of our worst adver-
saries ever justified—ever. If we will-
fully allow our institutions or the indi-
viduals within them to deviate from
the laws and standards of conduct that
underpin our great Nation, then we
lose our way, and the world loses its
champion of righteousness and inter-
nationally recognized norms and val-
ues.
I do not believe anyone in this Cham-
ber disagrees with the laws and values
of this country. The matter at hand is
whether we will hold people account-
able who violate those laws and fail to
act on behalf of America with honor.
To me, the right answer is very clear:
The United States will not willfully
commit or condone war crimes, and we
must bring those who do commit them
to justice regardless of citizenship, af-
filiation, or background. That is what
we stand for as a nation. Those are our
values, and that is America’s leader-
ship.
Even in the fog of war—especially in
the fog of war—we must endeavor to
act with the moral clarity that distin-
guishes the United States of America
as a shining city upon a hill.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
f
THE ARCTIC
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
have asked for a few moments on the
floor today to speak about an issue I
care about deeply. It is a part of the
globe, a part of the world that, in my
view, is truly evolving and is as dy-
namic an area as anyplace on planet
Earth. This is the Arctic.
The Arctic is growing in prominence
around the globe. Countries like China,
India, and Germany have taken a keen
interest in what happens in the far
north.
I have had many colleagues ask me:
Why should a Senator from, say, the
State of Indiana care about the Arctic?
I guess my rhetorical answer would
be this: Well, why should China care
about the Arctic? Why should Japan,
Germany, and India care about the
Arctic? If they are paying attention to
it, shouldn’t we, as an Arctic nation
that actually has territory in the Arc-
tic, be interested and focused on this as
well?
To be fair, we have made some good
progress this year. I appreciate the ad-
ministration working with us. I appre-
ciate my colleagues here in the Con-
gress who worked with us to ensure
that we were able to advance appro-
priations for the first polar security
cutter. This is significant news for the
American Arctic. People have heard
me say that we have about 11⁄2 ice-
breakers in the United States right
now. We have the Polar Star, which
breaks ice down in Antarctica, meeting
our obligations there. We have the
Polar Sea, which is tied up in Wash-
ington State and will probably never
see service again. We have a medium-
strength icebreaker, the Healey, which
does a fair amount of research work.
But for us, as an Arctic nation, it is
important to have a fleet of ice-
breakers.
That is what we, as an Arctic nation,
must be working toward, so a contract
for the design and construction of the
first polar-class icebreaker to be built
in the United States in the past 40
years was awarded just last month. As
a nation, we haven’t seen work on an
icebreaker in four decades now.
A total of $20 million is also being
provided for long lead time materials
for a second polar security cutter.
Hopefully, we will be talking about
more than just one polar security cut-
ter and we will one day have what this
country, as an Arctic nation, should
have, and that is a fleet.
But the Arctic is about more than
just icebreakers. It is about the people
who live there. It is about the environ-
ment. It is about its location on the
globe. The Arctic is a living and
breathing place. I think some people,
in their mind’s eye, view the Arctic as
a frozen wasteland, or perhaps it is a
snow globe that just kind of sits up on
a shelf and you don’t touch it. But it is
not. It is home to some 4 million people
in the Arctic region. It is not highly
populated, but there are people living,
working, raising their families, sub-
sisting, and engaging in commerce. It
is an important place.
It is a good thing when officials at
the highest levels get together to dis-
cuss the issues within the Arctic. That
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.019 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3080 May 23, 2019
is what happened earlier this month—
actually May 6 and 7—at the Arctic
Council Ministerial Meeting in
Rovaniemi, Finland. The Foreign Min-
isters for each of the eight Arctic na-
tions were in attendance. The signifi-
cance of that is noteworthy. It was
only the second time in the council’s
30-plus-year history that all of the
eight Ministers were gathered to-
gether. I was pleased to be a part of the
U.S. delegation that was led by our
Secretary of State, Secretary Pompeo.
This was actually the fifth Arctic
Council Ministerial Meeting that I
have attended going back to 2011, when
the ministerial was held in Nuuk,
Greenland. At that point in time, it
was then-Secretary of State Clinton.
That marked the first time the U.S.
Secretary of State attended such a
meeting. So 2011—it wasn’t too many
years ago that the United States had a
Secretary of State attend.
The Arctic Council includes the eight
Arctic nations. The eight Arctic na-
tions are Canada, United States, Rus-
sia, Finland, Sweden, Norway, Iceland,
and Greenland. It also includes six per-
manent participant groups within the
Arctic Council that represent the in-
digenous populations within the re-
gion. Four of those partially reside in
Alaska, and those are the Aleut Inter-
national Association, the Arctic
Athabaskan Council, the Gwich’in
Council International, and the Inuit
Circumpolar Council. While only the
Arctic nations have voting rights, the
permanent participants have a seat at
the table, and they provide valuable
input into the council’s discussions and
deliberations. I think we really saw the
impact of the permanent participants
at this most recent ministerial.
The council also has 38 observers, in-
cluding 13 non-Arctic nations—this
goes back to China, as I mentioned ear-
lier—13 intergovernmental and inter-
parliamentary groups, and 12 non-
governmental entities. The number of
observers and the number of pending
applications to be observers has grown
considerably in the past several years.
Again, it just goes to demonstrate the
rest of the world’s interest in the Arc-
tic.
Much of what we have seen reported
after the ministerial that was held in
Rovaniemi focused not on what hap-
pened but on what didn’t happen at the
ministerial, which was that, for the
first time, there was not a signed min-
isterial declaration.
I was not part of any of the Minister-
level discussions that went on either
prior to their convening in Rovaniemi
or directly prior to the day of the min-
isterial itself, but the crux of the im-
passe there was language regarding cli-
mate change and how much of the dec-
laration would actually reference it.
This has all been reported very wide-
ly in the media, but what has not been
reported nearly as broadly are the
areas of agreement that were high-
lighted at the ministerial. All eight na-
tions signed a joint ministerial state-
ment—not a declaration but a state-
ment—which reaffirmed their commit-
ment to maintain peace, stability, and
cooperation in the Arctic. That is kind
of a given. That is what we want to
work for with each ministerial. But the
joint statement recognized the diver-
sity of the inhabitants of the region
and the rights of the Arctic indigenous
people. It also reaffirmed the commit-
ment to sustainable development and
the protection of the Arctic environ-
ment.
In addition to that very short state-
ment, there was a statement by the
chair of the ministerial meeting—the
Foreign Minister of Finland—that en-
compassed what would have been in a
declaration had one been signed and
noted many of the areas of agreement
amongst all the Arctic nations. These
were items such as the importance of
the role of scientific research, along
with traditional and local knowledge,
the significance of the Arctic Environ-
ment Ministers’ Meeting, the Arctic
Climate Change Update 2019 report, the
outcomes from the Arctic Resilience
Forum, the convening of the Second
Arctic Science Ministerial. It encour-
ages further work in adapting to cli-
mate change impacts, such as perma-
frost thaw, and responding to weather
extremes, including the increased risk
of wildfires.
Looking at the Foreign Minister’s
statement, it was clear that there were
many areas and many provisions on
which there was cooperation and agree-
ment within the Arctic Council and
many areas of agreement on environ-
mental issues as well.
Another topic reported in the news
was comments by Secretary Pompeo
the day before the ministerial that
were pretty direct. They were pretty
directed and were directed to Russian
and Chinese activity in the Arctic. The
Secretary’s remarks pointed to a re-
ality, plain and simple. They pointed
to a growing reality that today’s Arc-
tic is not the Arctic we have known in
generations past.
We all still want—I certainly want,
as one who works hard on Arctic issues
every day—we want those buzz words
that are synonymous with the region
to continue to apply today and well
into the future, words like ‘‘coopera-
tion,’’ ‘‘collaboration,’’ and calling the
Arctic the ‘‘zone of peace.’’
Greater accessibility to the region
and its resources, as we are seeing the
ice that is receding from the shore—
with greater opportunities for commer-
cial transit, you have greater accessi-
bility—is also bringing increased inter-
national awareness. You have seen not
only a level of interest, but you have
seen a level of investment activity and
clearly competing interests that are
presenting.
Some of this is great news. Fiber
optic cable and satellite coverage are
bringing a level of connectivity to
small, remote, and isolated commu-
nities, which is something the commu-
nities embrace. With these advance-
ments, we see impacts on the culture
and on the values of the indigenous
populations.
We are seeing opportunities for tour-
ism. Cruise ships with thousands of
passengers are pulling into small coast-
al communities, which certainly boost
their economy, but think about the im-
pact when you have 1,000 people who
may want to disembark into a commu-
nity that doesn’t have the infrastruc-
ture. It dwarfs the local population and
impacts the existing infrastructure
there.
Then, of course, whether we like it or
not, national security interests are
now at the forefront of many of the dis-
cussions about the High North. Sec-
retary Pompeo—again, his words were
pretty direct. He said:
The region has become an arena for power
and for competition. And the eight Arctic
States must adapt to this new future.
He also said that the Arctic Council
no longer has the luxury to focus ex-
clusively on scientific collaboration,
cultural matters, and environmental
research. He suggests that there is a
new age of strategic engagement in the
Arctic.
I don’t disagree with the Secretary
that military and national security
issues are much, much, much more
prevalent now than they were only 10
years ago, and it kind of begs the ques-
tion as to whether the Arctic Council
should expand its portfolio and take on
these issues. That was the discussion I
participated in later that day in Hel-
sinki at the Munich Security Con-
ference that was focused on Arctic se-
curity.
When the Arctic Council was estab-
lished in 1996, military and national se-
curity interests were specifically ex-
cluded from Council activities. They
chose to focus on economic develop-
ment and resilience, the environment,
research, the cultures, and left off of
the mission requirements, if you will,
the issues of national security and
military interest. I think that is prob-
ably why we have been able to see such
cooperation and collaboration coming
out of the Arctic Council for these
many years.
Yet, as was mentioned by the For-
eign Minister from Finland in a follow-
on discussion about the ministerial, it
is not as if we can just place a ‘‘Do Not
Disturb’’ sign on the Arctic—we as Arc-
tic nations. It has changed. It is chang-
ing. Investment is happening. The ac-
tivity is already occurring. So whether
we are ready for it, whether we want it,
whether we want to put out that ‘‘Do
Not Disturb’’ sign or not, it is hap-
pening.
Russia is modernizing, and they are
expanding their security posture in the
region. Some say it is in a provocative
manner; we can argue about that. But
it is certainly a manner that suggests
that they recognize the value of the re-
gion to their national interests, as well
as the growing non-Arctic nation at-
tention and access to the region.
China is also quite interested. During
the same week as the Arctic Council
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.028 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3081
May 23, 2019
Ministerial, the Arctic Circle Assembly
held a forum in Shanghai. So think
about it. We were having an Arctic Cir-
cle Assembly in Shanghai. Think about
how far Shanghai is from the Arctic. It
highlighted China’s interest and their
investment in the Arctic. So, again,
the geography can say that this is not
an Arctic nation, not even a near-Arc-
tic nation, but from scientific research
to economic interest in the Arctic’s
natural resources, China has made it
very clear that it has no intention of
reducing its interests in a Polar Silk
Road.
What Secretary Pompeo made very
clear is, look, if there is going to be in-
vestment in the region, we all need to
be operating by the same rules, and the
rules require transparency—trans-
parency when it comes to investment
in the region, regardless of who is mak-
ing it. I would add to that notion that
those who live in the region should
benefit from any investment in the
Arctic, as they are the ones who bear
the greatest risk in any economic ac-
tivity, whether it is on the shore or in
the waters.
We recognize there are plenty of op-
portunities in the Arctic, as we are see-
ing the impacts of climate change and
what that means to an area that is be-
coming more exposed, but with those
opportunities come very real chal-
lenges, and we have to address those as
well. That includes environmental ef-
fects that come with climate change as
we see a reduced sea ice cover and the
need to develop rules of the road to
provide transparency for the growing
amount of investment in the Far North
by both Arctic and non-Arctic actors
alike.
One of the underreported events of
the Rovaniemi Ministerial was the
signing of a memorandum of under-
standing between the Arctic Council
and the Arctic Economic Council. This
new agreement will provide a frame-
work to enhance responsible economic
development and build partnerships for
issues of common interest and capacity
building of Arctic inhabitants. Perhaps
this is the first step in developing a
framework for transparent Arctic in-
vestment and a new age of strategic en-
gagement in the Arctic.
I was very honored to attend both the
Arctic Council Ministerial in Finland,
as well as the Arctic Circle Assembly
in Shanghai. I continue to believe it is
critical for us—for those in the admin-
istration, for us here in Congress—to
actively engage in the Arctic. We have
a lot at stake here. The region has a
lot at stake, and we need to establish
sound policy that will take advantage
of all of our opportunities and address
our challenges while ensuring that we
are working to the benefit of the local
residents.
I think it is so important to reinforce
that we cannot assume that if we are
not stepping it up in the Arctic, that
means nobody else is. That is abso-
lutely and positively not the case.
There is a level of engagement and
there is a level of interest that is glob-
al. We are one of the eight Arctic na-
tions. We have a place; we have a peo-
ple in the Arctic. We have an obliga-
tion, as an Arctic nation, to behave as
one.
Alaskans are more than happy to
lead whenever and wherever possible,
but this is not an Alaska-specific issue.
This is not just Alaska. This is all of us
as a country. We also need that rec-
ognition at the Federal level.
I encourage Members of this Chamber
to recognize the importance of the Arc-
tic, to pay greater attention to what is
happening there, to make the region a
priority in our policymaking efforts,
and to help ensure that America, which
is an Arctic nation by virtue of Alas-
ka—that we, as an Arctic nation, catch
up to all of the others that are looking
with great interest, whether making
investments or truly making an im-
pression on the Arctic.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Indiana.
f
RECOGNIZING PURDUE UNIVER-
SITY’S ALL-AMERICAN MARCH-
ING BAND.
Mr. BRAUN. Mr. President, I rise
today to celebrate the talent and
steadfast dedication of Purdue Univer-
sity’s All-American Marching Band,
which will be performing for the 100th
time at the 103rd Running of the Indy
500.
Every year, the ‘‘Greatest Spectacle
in Racing’’ attracts hundreds of thou-
sands of fans to our State’s capital.
Throughout the last century, Purdue
University’s marching band has be-
come an indispensable part of the an-
nual festivities with their highly an-
ticipated performance of traditional
Indy 500 songs and other popular hits.
I commend the efforts and hard work
put forth by the band’s nearly 300
members. Their dedication in rehearsal
is sure to pay off when they take to the
famed Indy Motor Speedway this Sun-
day, welcoming spectators from around
the world with familiar favorites, in-
cluding the now customary perform-
ance of the classic ‘‘Back Home Again
in Indiana.’’
I especially commend the Purdue
University marching band directors,
past and present, whose work make
this tradition possible. This year, the
band will be led by the acclaimed Hoo-
sier, Jay Gephart, professor of music,
and Al Wright, chair director of bands
and orchestras at Purdue University. I
am sure that under his direction, the
All-American band will do Indiana
proud.
I also recognize Purdue University’s
first marching band director, the late
Paul Spotts Emrick, who initially
forged the relationship between the
University and the speedway. He di-
rected Purdue’s first performance at
the famed 500-mile race in 1919, 100
years ago.
I applaud Purdue University’s march-
ing band for each year dedicating
themselves to sharing our Hoosier tra-
ditions and heritage with millions of
viewers around the world. I extend my
thanks to all who ensure that the tra-
dition endures, and I look forward to
another great performance this week-
end from the Boilermakers. Go Boilers.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO MARY NAYLOR
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise, ac-
companied by an amazing public serv-
ant who is completing 29 years and 10
months of working in the U.S. Senate—
Mary Naylor, my legislative director.
She is angry with me right now for
tricking her into this and walking into
the Chamber and seeing my whole
staff, but I wanted to just say a word to
honor her.
When I came to the Senate—elected
in 2012 and sworn in in January 2013—
obviously, hiring a legislative director
was a very, very important challenge
that I was dealing with, and I had a
number of people who wanted to do the
job. There was a wonderful Senate
staffer who was about to leave the Hill
to see if there was life after the Senate.
She wasn’t sure whether there was but
was really excited to see that. Yet, as
tough a negotiator as she was, she let
me persuade her to stay for one more
term after she had wanted to leave to
do other things. She did a remarkable
job for me in my first term and has
done a remarkable job now into my
second term in the Senate. She has
been my legislative director since my
first day in the body, but as I pointed
out, she is now nearly 30 years into
serving this institution.
Let me tell you some things about
Mary.
She is from Fargo, ND. She came to
the Senate in 1989, which was right
after she graduated with honors—Phi
Beta Kappa—from Northwestern. She
first became a legislative assistant for
the late Senator Paul Simon in 1991.
Then she eventually became the deputy
chief of staff to Senator Kent Conrad of
her home State. For most of her career
in the Senate, she worked with Senator
Conrad. When Senator Conrad became
the Budget chairman in 2001, she be-
came the Democratic staff director for
the committee, and she remained in
that position for 12 years until she be-
came my legislative director in 2013.
Some highlights of her tenure with
Budget include 10 budget resolutions,
the Simpson-Bowles Commission,
walking us back from a fiscal cliff in
2011, and a C–SPAN debut—oh, my
gosh, a C–SPAN debut—in March 2008
when she testified before the Budget
Committee on the fiscal year 2009 budg-
et.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.029 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3082 May 23, 2019
Mary Naylor played a critical role in
the Affordable Care Act. With members
of the Budget Committee, she helped to
iron out the fiscal details of such a
monumental bill, and she captivated a
lot of my staffers in the office with
tales of the high stakes parliamentary
maneuvering she undertook to make
sure the reconciliation component of
the ACA complied with the Byrd rule.
One of the things that Mary does in
my office that my staff loves is the
parliamentary minute. At the end of
every week, after I have gone back to
Richmond, she will do a parliamentary
minute and put an interesting problem
or challenge on the table from the past
and walk my legislative staff through
how we should deal with it.
In 2011, the ‘‘Washingtonian’’ named
Mary one of the 100 most powerful
women in DC, and the ‘‘National Jour-
nal’’ named her among the top 14
women on the Hill.
Mary has helped me out in so many
ways. She has learned more about air-
craft carrier refueling than she ever
thought possible and has helped me
overcome now two bouts of the decom-
missioning of aircraft.
All of my staff understands that
Mary has really been kind of the brains
of the operation. She is in a league of
her own. Every single bill of mine that
has passed has her fingerprints on it,
and I guess I am getting up to—I don’t
know—over 40 or 50 bills. She comes up
with the ideas. She makes my ideas a
lot better. She builds supports for our
proposals. She tells me when my ideas
are bad, and she is almost always
right—not always right. She is almost
always right. She helps me on my com-
mittees and floor strategy. She re-
cruits, trains, and advises all of the
amazing policy staffers I have working
with me and all who have worked with
me over the years.
That is what Mary has done for me
and for the people of Virginia for 6
years. That is what she has done for
the Senate for the United States for
now 30 years. She is a policy whiz. She
is a dogged go-getter, and I emphasize
‘‘dogged.’’ That is a character reference
if you know Mary’s love of dogs. She is
a walking parliamentary encyclopedia,
and her dedication has helped me to
achieve much more than I would have
imagined as a Senator.
I recognize Mary to say, like so many
in the offices in this building, her per-
sistent service to Senator Conrad, to
Senator Simon, to me, to the Budget
Committee, to the Senate more broad-
ly, and to the country have really
made a difference in an awful lot of
people’s lives.
Anybody leaving, it is always bitter-
sweet. I think that she is now going to
find there is life after the Senate, and
she has a cool next opportunity that
she can pursue.
Whenever one of my staffers goes on
to pursue a new cool opportunity, I am
really happy for them, and yet it is
hard to imagine what it will be like
walking into the office every day and
not having Mary there as the brains of
the operation and a great right hand at
getting good things done.
So with that, I know my whole staff
is thinking the same thought right
now. We want to just thank Mary
Naylor for her great service and com-
mend her.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
TAX REFORM
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, there
was an article in the paper today tell-
ing us something that surprises nobody
in this Chamber, really, on either side,
surveying the tax packages, the pro-
posals from Democrats and Repub-
licans, and making the contrast, and it
said the Democratic tax packages are
significantly better for the middle
class than the Republican tax package.
We know what happened 2-plus years
ago when the Finance Committee, in
the middle of the night, kept writing
new language and biasing it towards
the wealthiest people in the county.
We know that the Trump tax bill,
voted for by the majority, opposed by
all of us because over 75 percent of the
benefits, over time, went to the richest
1 percent. Contrast that with our
Working Families Tax Relief Act,
which focuses on middle-class and
working-class taxpayers, focuses on the
earned income tax credit and the child
tax credit under the theory that, if you
cut taxes for the rich, which Repub-
licans always do, that the money trick-
les down, but it doesn’t trickle down.
They say it is going to trickle down
and help the middle class. Well, it real-
ly never does.
I heard President Trump promise a
group of us in the White House that ev-
erybody would get a $4,000 raise and
several thousand dollars in tax cuts for
middle-class families—it just didn’t
happen.
The way you grow the economy is
you focus on the middle class, you cut
taxes for the middle class, put money
in their pocket, they spend it in local
communities. You cut taxes for the
rich, it goes to a Swiss bank account or
wherever it goes.
So the newspaper today said what ev-
erybody already knows, that the best
way to grow the economy, the best way
to help this country, the best way to
help the middle class is—surprise—cut
taxes for the middle class. That is what
the Working Families Tax Relief Act
does. It helps working class kids.
The Trump tax bill pretended to cut
taxes through the child tax credit. For
the child tax credit, it actually left 26
million children out. Our legislation
focuses on those 26 million children.
They are not children of the rich. They
are children of the middle class. They
are working families. They are low-in-
come kids.
So it is clear that that is the way
this body should go. I understand who
has the votes. I understand that the
President of the United States—where
the White House looks like a retreat
for Wall Street executives—the Presi-
dent of the United States can always
jam another tax cut for billionaires
through this body.
But let’s do the right thing and actu-
ally put our focus on working families.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
f
S. 151
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, earlier
today, the Senate overwhelmingly ap-
proved the Telephone Robocall Abuse
Criminal Enforcement and Deterrence
Act, known as the TRACED Act, au-
thored by our colleagues Senators
THUNE and MARKEY.
I am pleased to have been a cospon-
sor of this bill to help protect con-
sumers from fraudulent, aggravating,
and incessant robocalls.
The TRACED Act makes a number of
important changes to our laws that
will make it easier to fight illegal
robocalls.
Most important, the TRACED Act re-
quires telecommunications carriers to
implement what is known as SHAKEN/
STIR technology to verify whether
caller IDs that appear on incoming
calls are authentic.
When fully implemented, this tech-
nology will be a major advance against
the illegal spoofing of calls that have
resulted in successful scams.
Combating illegal robocalls has long
been a focus of the Senate’s Special
Committee on Aging, which I chair,
and on which the Presiding Officer
serves.
Over the past 6 years, the Special
Committee on Aging has held 22 hear-
ings to examine scams that specifically
target older Americans. Scams that we
have highlighted include the IRS im-
poster scam, the Jamaican lottery
scam, computer tech support schemes,
grandparent scams, elder financial ex-
ploitation, identity theft, and the noto-
rious drug mule scam.
The number and the kind of these
scams are endless in their variety. The
criminals are ruthless and relentless,
and they will continue to come up with
new ways to defraud Americans, par-
ticularly our seniors.
These scams are often initiated by
robocallers who use caller ID spoofing
to perpetrate their schemes. Many of
us remember back in 2003 when the Do
Not Call Registry was created. At that
point, what we were able to do was reg-
ister our phone numbers and block
those unwanted, illegal robocalls. For-
tunately, back then, telecommuni-
cations equipment could not easily be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.031 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3083
May 23, 2019
used to disguise a caller ID to make it
look like the call was coming from
someplace other than its origin.
Unfortunately, technology today and
particularly the emergence of the voice
over internet protocol technology has
changed all that to the point where the
Do Not Call Registry has become vir-
tually useless for most Americans. Now
criminals can use VoIP to hide their
identities while generating millions of
robocalls from anywhere in the world
at practically no cost.
We heard in the Aging Committee
some heart-wrenching stories of con-
sumers who have been ripped off be-
cause of the combination of the
robocall and the disguising of the iden-
tity of the caller.
For example, in 2015, we heard from
the Auburn, ME, Police Department
about a woman who lost $7,400 because
she got one of these calls, and it was
followed by another call that appeared
to be the Auburn Police Department.
That is what appeared on her caller ID.
Yet, of course, it was nothing of the
sort. But that was sufficient to make
her think she really did have to pay
what turned out to be $7,400 of her re-
tirement savings, which she could ill
afford to lose.
In 2017, we heard from an 81-year-old
veteran from Portland, ME, Phillip
Hatch, who was a victim of the IRS im-
poster scam. In these scams, what hap-
pens is the robocaller pretends to be an
IRS agent. He or she will tell the per-
son who answers the phone that the
consumer owes thousands of dollars in
back taxes and penalties and that if
they are not paid immediately, they
will either be arrested or a lien will be
put on their home. They manage to
panic people of all ages—particularly
our seniors—into paying money they
do not owe to the IRS.
Everyone should be aware that if you
really do owe back taxes to the IRS,
you will get a letter from the IRS. You
won’t be called up and threatened. But
that, unfortunately, is what these con
artists, these ruthless criminals, do.
Well, Mr. Hatch was induced to pay
some $8,000 when he got a second call
that appeared to be from the Portland
Police Department telling him that if
he did not pay up immediately, there
was a warrant for his arrest—again,
completely bogus. Mr. Hatch did not
owe back taxes, much less penalties,
but it was the spoofing of the call that
made it look like it was from the Port-
land Police Department in this case—
the Auburn Police Department in the
previous case I described—that caused
him to lose a substantial amount of
money. His situation would have been
even worse if his son had not inter-
vened. He would have lost even more.
This is a problem that is getting
worse every day. Oddly enough, lately
on my cell phones, I have been receiv-
ing robocalls that are in Chinese,
which is really bizarre. I don’t know
whether they are targeting a Chinese-
American population in some part of
the Washington, DC, area, but that is
what I have been getting lately. But all
of us know how frequent, how annoy-
ing, and in many cases how dangerous
these robocalls can be when they are
conducted by these ruthless criminals.
Last year, the Federal Trade Com-
mission logged an incredible 3.8 billion
complaints about illegal robocalls.
This year, industry sources estimate
that nearly half of all mobile phone
calls are fraudulent—nearly half. So
this is a problem that deserves our at-
tention. The American people are tired
of having scammers ring their phones
off the hook—or their cell phones—and
they want these calls stopped. We have
to do all we can to give the regulators
the important tools to help fight these
illegal robocalls.
I am very pleased that we have taken
an important step today and that the
Federal Communications Commission
is also acting to increase the protec-
tions for consumers. We should be able
to rely on the veracity of our caller ID
identifications. That is why we have
caller ID. But the spoofers have man-
aged to defeat the purpose of caller ID,
including being able to pretend to be
the Department of Treasury, the Au-
burn Police Department, and other law
enforcement agencies. No wonder peo-
ple pick up the phone when they see
the Department of Treasury, the Au-
burn Police Department, or the IRS is
calling, but, in fact, that is not who is
calling; it is a relentless criminal who
is trying to steal money from the con-
sumer.
It is my hope that this important
consumer protection bill, which builds
on all of the 22 hearings our Aging
Committee has held, will become law
shortly and provide relief to American
consumers.
Thank you, Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Louisiana.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, yes-
terday I stood on the floor of our es-
teemed Senate, and I said: The Senate
needs to do more. The Senate needs to
do more.
I was very careful—and I want to re-
affirm today—I was very careful not to
say we are not doing anything. I talked
about our important work on con-
firming judges. I think we are putting
some very fine men and women on the
Federal bench, who are going to make
our country safer and better. I was also
very careful to talk about the fact that
after a logjam had been created on the
appointments for the President’s ad-
ministration, we were finally able to
break that logjam. We have started
confirming some new advisers for the
President.
I am very proud of the good work
this body has done, but I did make the
point that we need to do more. I talked
about the fact that, in my judgment,
there are many issues—if we think
about them—on which my Democratic
friends and my Republican colleagues
have more in common than we don’t,
but we can’t determine whether that is
accurate unless we vote, unless we
bring bills to the floor, unless we get
bills in front of the committee and
mark them up. That is our word, as
you know, for amending a bill.
One of the bills I talked about yester-
day was the need for bipartisan support
for trying to do something about the
spam, fraudulent robocalls the Amer-
ican people are getting, about which
Senator COLLINS just spoke so elo-
quently. I said there would be bipar-
tisan support. I believed it. I believe it
even more today. I am very proud of
the Senate because we just passed a
bill. Do you know how many people
voted against it? One. One ‘‘no’’ vote.
See what happens when Senators are
allowed to be Senators?
There are other efforts that we can
work on together. The cost of prescrip-
tion drugs—I spoke about that yester-
day. I don’t want to go into it more
today.
I will give you another one, and I
know this is controversial, but I think
it is less controversial than people re-
alize—net neutrality, the importance
of people being able to access the Inter-
net freely without being blocked or
without their speeds being throttled or
without their being censored.
That is a very controversial issue
around here, but I still believe we share
more in common than we don’t on that
issue. I talk with my colleagues all the
time. I say: We need to pass a bill. Do
you know why? Because the business-
men and the businesswomen and the
consumers need some predictability in
this area. What happens now is, if we
have a Democratic President who gets
control of the FCC, they pass one set of
net neutrality rules, and then if we
have a Republican President who gets
control of the FCC, they pass a dif-
ferent set of net neutrality rules. The
business community and the con-
sumers are like ping pong balls. There
is no predictability. There is no cer-
tainty. You can’t plan. So everybody
says: We need to pass a bill. Well, I am
going to say it too. We need to pass a
bill, but the only way to pass a bill is
to pass a bill. And I think that is an
area where we can work.
Another area—I understand how hard
it is to fix our healthcare delivery sys-
tem, but we ought to at least try. Our
efforts in the last Congress to repeal
and replace the Affordable Care Act did
not work. We could not pass the bill. I
do not know a single person, honestly,
a fairminded person who thinks the Af-
fordable Care Act is working. But there
are things we can do in the meantime
while we are trying to reach an agree-
ment on health insurance and the
healthcare delivery system that looks
like somebody designed the two things
on purpose. There are things we can do
together in the meantime.
I think there is bipartisan support
for the idea that if you have health in-
surance and you go to the emergency
room—and you picked an emergency
room at a hospital that is under your
policy—and you go and you pay your
$500 deductible, a month later, you
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.033 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3084 May 23, 2019
should not get a bill for $1,000. You call
them up and you say: What do you
mean? The hospital is listed on my pol-
icy. I did what I was supposed to do. I
went there. It was an emergency, but I
did not go to the closest hospital. I
went to the hospital in my policy, and
I get a bill for $4,000.
They say: Oh, that doctor, that radi-
ologist—not to pick on radiologists—
that radiologist wasn’t covered by your
plan.
Well, how am I supposed to know?
We can address that. I guarantee you
that there is bipartisan support to do
something about that. We might not
agree on the details, but that is why,
you know, God created the Senate
floor. You come down here, you debate,
you discuss, and you offer amend-
ments.
There are other examples. Let me say
I am cutting this short because we are
about to have another vote on a dis-
aster bill. Thank you. Thank you,
United States Senate. Thank you,
President Trump, for meeting us in the
middle.
I am not clairvoyant, but I feel really
good about its passing—not good for
the Senate as an institution, although
I am proud of us today, but good for
our farmers and our people in so many
States who have been hurt by natural
disasters—wildfires and hurricanes.
Puerto Rico was hit with two hurri-
canes right in a row. We are going to
do something about that today. I am
happy for the Senate, but I am even
happier for the American people.
I am going to say it again. We have
more in common—our Democratic col-
leagues and our Republican col-
leagues—than we don’t on certain
issues, and I think we would surprise
ourselves in what we could achieve if
we just try.
Mr. President, I suggest the absence
of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to Calendar No. 91,
H.R. 2157.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 91, H.R.
2157, a bill making supplemental appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to proceed be
agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 2157) making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Shelby-Leahy sub-
stitute amendment at the desk be
agreed to; that Senator SHELBY or his
designee be recognized to make a mo-
tion to waive any budget points of
order; further, that if the motion to
waive is agreed to, the bill, as amend-
ed, be read a third time and the Senate
vote on passage with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 250) in the na-
ture of a substitute was agreed to.
(The amendment is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, pursu-
ant to section 904 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974 and the waiver pro-
visions of the applicable budget resolu-
tions, I move to waive all applicable
sections of the act and applicable budg-
et resolutions for purposes of H.R. 2157,
as amended, and I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. CAP-
ITO), the Senator from Wyoming (Mr.
ENZI), the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN), the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS), and the Senator
from Pennsylvania (Mr. TOOMEY).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the
Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. CAP-
ITO) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. SCHUMER. I announce that the
Senator from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN) is
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 84,
nays 9, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 128 Leg.]
YEAS—84
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Harris
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—9
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Crapo
Lee
McSally
Paul
Risch
Romney
NOT VOTING—7
Alexander
Capito
Durbin
Enzi
Moran
Rounds
Toomey
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote the yeas are 84, the nays are 9.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the third time.
The amendment was ordered to be
engrossed and the bill to be read a
third time.
The bill was read the third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill pass?
Mr. CORNYN. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. CAP-
ITO), the Senator from Wyoming (Mr.
ENZI), the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN), the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS), and the Senator
from Pennsylvania (Mr. TOOMEY).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the
Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. CAP-
ITO) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. SCHUMER. I announce that the
Senator from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN) is
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 85,
nays 8, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 129 Leg.]
YEAS—85
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.034 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3085
May 23, 2019
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Harris
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—8
Blackburn
Braun
Crapo
Lee
McSally
Paul
Risch
Romney
NOT VOTING—7
Alexander
Capito
Durbin
Enzi
Moran
Rounds
Toomey
The bill (H.R. 2157), as amended, was
passed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I thank
my colleagues on both sides of the aisle
for their votes. Even though the final
vote might be 5 months late, today is a
good day for the Congress, for the Sen-
ate, for the American people, and for
the Nation.
I have said from the beginning—a po-
sition I have taken in all of my decades
in the Senate—that any disaster sup-
plemental that passes this Chamber
cannot pick and choose which Amer-
ican citizens to help in their time of
need. We are all Americans. The Amer-
ican community bands together to sup-
port one another when disaster strikes,
regardless of where we are from, what
our politics are, or what our beliefs
are. That is the American way, and it
is the role of the Congress to make
sure that it is done.
I am glad to stand on the Senate
floor today, and I am glad to be here
with my dear friend, the senior Senator
from Alabama and the chairman of the
Appropriations Committee, Senator
SHELBY, to support what is a bipar-
tisan, bicameral disaster supplemental
appropriations bill.
Think of what we have done. This bill
will provide long overdue aid to the
people of California, Georgia, Florida,
Nebraska, Iowa, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Hawaii, Texas, Missouri, Ala-
bama, and Puerto Rico just to name a
few. Some of these people—they are all
American citizens—have been trying to
put their lives back together for nearly
2 years—since August of 2017.
It provides $19.1 billion to help com-
munities in these States and Terri-
tories to rebuild stronger than they
were before. It includes more than $2.4
billion in community development
block grants, more than $1.6 billion for
the Federal Highway Administration
to rebuild roads and bridges, and more
than $3 billion to support our Nation’s
farmers who lost their crops and live-
stock in the storms. It also provides
more than $3 billion to rebuild our
military’s storm-damaged infrastruc-
ture.
It has been no secret that how to help
the American citizens of Puerto Rico
has been at the heart of our dispute on
disaster aid, but I am pleased to report
that the bill provides much needed as-
sistance to these Americans, including
$605 million for the Nutrition Assist-
ance Program, and $304 million in com-
munity development block grants to
help the island meet the FEMA match
requirements.
One thing that we learned when
Tropical Storm Irene struck Vermont
is that you have rebuild better than
you were so you are stronger when you
face the next storm. We have included
language that requires FEMA to re-
build the island stronger and better
than it was before to help mitigate the
damage of a future storm. We did this
in certain areas in Vermont, and it
made all the difference in the world.
This supplemental will unlock bil-
lions of dollars that Congress had pre-
viously appropriated for Puerto Rico
and other communities across the
country that the Trump administra-
tion has held back in the Treasury.
We reached this agreement because
the Republicans and the Democrats
came together across the aisle. It is a
strong bipartisan agreement. It reflects
that we are one Nation in times of need
and that all Americans can count on
each other. I was happy to see the
strong support from the Senators here,
but our work is not yet done.
Now we have to address the humani-
tarian crisis at our southern border.
We have to help those who are fleeing
from violence and persecution in their
own countries. The President has re-
quested $4.5 billion. Some of this
money is badly needed. There is no dis-
pute about that, and I will support the
part that is badly needed.
Everyone in this Chamber knows
these are difficult issues that are often
made more difficult given the Presi-
dent’s rhetoric and extreme policies.
Difficult issues take time. Let’s lower
the rhetoric, and let’s do as we have
done here—work together. We have
been working day and night to strike a
compromise on the President’s request.
We are close, but we are not there yet.
Even as of late, late last night, we were
still working on that. When we return,
I hope we can negotiate a bipartisan
agreement to provide additional hu-
manitarian assistance.
To reach this agreement today, many
of the Senators—and I mentioned, of
course, Senator SHELBY, my friend, as
chairman—and I, as vice chairman,
worked together. So did many others,
but none of us could do it without the
dedicated staff that was involved. I
could go home at 9 o’clock and 10
o’clock at night, but they were still
there. I am talking about both the
Democratic staff and the Republican
staff. So I asked my Appropriations
chief of staff, Chuck Kieffer, to give me
a list.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the RECORD at
the end of my remarks the list of
names of both the Democratic staff and
the Republican staff who worked so
hard on this.
I said on a personal basis earlier that
I remember when Tropical Storm Irene
hit Vermont and how totally discour-
aged I was by the damage. Yet, within
hours, I had texts and emails from Sen-
ators in this body—Republicans and
Democrats alike. They said: When we
were hit by a tornado, by flooding, by
an earthquake—whatever it might
have been—Vermont stood with us, and
we will stand with Vermont.
That is what we are as the United
States of America. The Senate did
what it should do today. The Senate
acted as the conscience of the Nation.
We stood together to help all Ameri-
cans.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
LIST SUBMITTED FOR THE RECORD BY APPRO-
PRIATIONS COMMITTEE VICE CHAIRMAN
LEAHY OF STAFF FOR H.R. 2157, THE SUPPLE-
MENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT
Charles E. Kieffer, Chanda Betourney, Jess
Berry, Jay Tilton, Hannah Chauvin, Dianne
Nellor, Jean Toal Eisen, Erik Raven, Doug
Clapp, Ellen Murray, Scott Nance, Chip Wal-
gren, Drenan Dudley, Reeves Hart, Rachael
Taylor, Alex Keenan, Jason McMahon, Tim
Rieser, Dabney Hegg, Christina Monroe,
Catie Finley, Shannon Hines, Jonathan
Graffeo, David Adkins, Carlisle Clarke, Ham-
ilton Bloom, Brian Potts, Tyler Owens, An-
drew Newton, Adam Telle, Erny Lesofski,
Laura Friedel, Sarah Boliek, Patrick Magnu-
son, Paul Grove, Clare Doherty.
Mr. LEAHY. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Without objection,
it is so ordered.
f
DISASTER RELIEF
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, all
week, Chairman SHELBY and a number
of our colleagues worked tirelessly to
get a supplemental funding agreement
for disaster relief over the finish line.
He has prepared one thoughtful, good-
faith compromise after another.
In fact, this has been going on for
months now: compromise offer after
compromise offer from Republicans—
constant engagement and good-faith
work. So I am pleased that, today, all
of this hard work has at long last paid
off. Thanks to the efforts from a num-
ber of our colleagues and thanks to the
leadership of President Trump and his
administration—and, I might add, the
occupant of the Chair, who has been ex-
tremely persistent in this effort over
the last weeks and months—the Senate
has now passed a compromise solution
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.009 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3086 May 23, 2019
for disaster funding, and we have sent
it over to the House.
Regretfully, they are gone.
The President has indicated he sup-
ports it. So the Senate’s bipartisan
vote is a big step toward making law
and actually delivering the relief that
communities across our Nation sorely
need.
I am sorry that our House Demo-
cratic colleagues blocked commonsense
efforts to include funding in this legis-
lation for the ongoing humanitarian
crisis down on the southern border. De-
spite days of negotiations, House
Democrats insisted that we could not
provide more funding for our over-
whelmed agencies, which are running
on fumes, without including other poi-
son-pill policy riders. As a result, to-
day’s agreement omits those needed re-
sources.
This wasn’t money for the wall or
even law enforcement. It was money so
that the Federal Government can con-
tinue to house, feed, and care for the
men, women, and children showing up
along our southern border—money for
agencies that are currently, literally,
running on fumes.
This is money that is so
uncontroversial—so uncontroversial—
that even the New York Times pub-
lished an editorial titled, ‘‘Congress,
Give Trump His Border Money.’’
Even the New York Times blasted
the ‘‘political gamesmanship [that]
threatens to hold up desperately need-
ed resources.’’ That is what they called
it—political gamesmanship.
Well, I am sorry to say their political
gamesmanship did hold up these re-
sources. Apparently, our House Demo-
cratic colleagues heard ‘‘President
Trump’’ and the word ‘‘border’’ in the
same sentence and decided they pre-
ferred no action at all to the sensible
compromise that even the New York
Times had called for.
It is too bad that partisan spite has
infected even such blindingly obvious
priorities as the humanitarian efforts
on our own southern border. I am sorry
that our Democratic friends have be-
come so committed to ‘‘the resistance’’
that they are now to the left of the
New York Times editorial board.
Nevertheless, we should celebrate the
progress we are making today. The
Senate passage of this legislation
marks a huge step forward for commu-
nities across the United States that
have gone far too long without receiv-
ing this Federal assistance to help
them get back on their feet.
Finally, the millions of Americans
who have grappled with nature’s worst
are closer to receiving the supple-
mental aid they urgently need for the
western communities that are still
sorting through the ashes of last year’s
record-breaking wildfires; our coastal
states in the Southeast and Puerto
Rico, where hurricane damage punched
holes in homes, businesses, and critical
infrastructure; the Deep South commu-
nities victimized by tornadoes; and for
those still grappling with the flood-
waters that have surged over farms and
towns across the Midwest and in my
own State of Kentucky.
So I am grateful and relieved that
Chairman SHELBY, Senator LEAHY, and
colleagues of ours, including Senators
PERDUE, ISAKSON, RICK SCOTT, RUBIO,
ERNST, THUNE, BLUNT, SASSE, and oth-
ers have brought us to this point with
their tireless work on this subject.
I am grateful to the President for his
leadership and focus on getting an out-
come. I am glad we passed this legisla-
tion and sent it to the House. I urge
our colleagues over in the House to
support it.
f
SETTING FORTH THE CONGRES-
SIONAL BUDGET FOR THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to Calendar No. 78, S.
1332.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 78, S.
1332, a bill to set forth the congressional
budget for the United States Government for
fiscal year 2020 and setting forth the appro-
priate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2021
through 2029.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk for
the motion to proceed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 78 S. 1332, a
bill to set forth the congressional budget for
the United States Government for fiscal year
2020 and setting forth the appropriate budg-
etary levels for fiscal years 2021 through 2029.
Mitch McConnell, John Thune, Johnny
Isakson, Jerry Moran, Mike Crapo,
Roger F. Wicker, Steve Daines, Roy
Blunt, Richard C. Shelby, Richard
Burr, Mike Lee, James Lankford, John
Cornyn, James E. Risch, David Perdue,
Tim Scott, Rand Paul.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 157.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion is agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Andrew M.
Saul, of New York, to be Commissioner
of Social Security for the term expir-
ing January 19, 2025. (Reappointment)
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Andrew M. Saul, of New York, to
be Commissioner of Social Security for the
term expiring January 19, 2025. (Reappoint-
ment)
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Tim Scott,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Roger
F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Richard
Burr, Mike Crapo, David Perdue, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 224.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion is agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of David
Schenker, of New Jersey, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of State (Near East-
ern Affairs).
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of David Schenker, of New Jersey, to
be an Assistant Secretary of State (Near
Eastern Affairs).
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Tim Scott,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Roger
F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Richard
Burr, Mike Crapo, David Perdue, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion is agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.039 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3087
May 23, 2019
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to executive session to consider
Calendar No. 162.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion is agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Heath P.
Tarbert, of Maryland, to be Chairman
of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland, to
be Chairman of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Tim Scott,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Roger
F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Richard
Burr, Mike Crapo, David Perdue, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 163.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion is agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Heath P.
Tarbert, of Maryland, to be a Commis-
sioner of the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission for a term expiring
April 13, 2024.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in ac-
cordance with the provisions of rule
XXII of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, do hereby move to bring to a close
debate on the nomination of Heath P.
Tarbert, of Maryland, to be Commis-
sioner of the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission for a term expiring
April 13, 2024.
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Tim Scott,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Roger
F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Richard
Burr, Mike Crapo, David Perdue, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 198.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Susan Combs,
of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary
of the Interior.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Susan Combs, of Texas, to be an
Assistant Secretary of the Interior.
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Tim Scott,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Roger
F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Richard
Burr, Mike Crapo, David Perdue, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 39.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Ryan T. Holte,
of Ohio, to be a Judge of the United
States Court of Federal Claims for a
term of fifteen years.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Ryan T. Holte, of Ohio, to be a
Judge of the United States Court of Federal
Claims for a term of fifteen years.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, Joni Ernst,
Steve Daines, Roger F. Wicker, John
Thune, Thom Tillis, John Kennedy,
John Boozman, Pat Roberts, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn, Richard Burr,
John Barrasso, Lindsey Graham, Rick
Scott.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to proceed
to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 40.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Rossie David
Alston, Jr., of Virginia, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Virginia.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Rossie David Alston, Jr., of Vir-
ginia, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Virginia.
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Tim Scott,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:58 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.046 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3088 May 23, 2019
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Roger
F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Richard
Burr, Mike Crapo, David Perdue, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to proceed
to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 56.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Richard A.
Hertling, of Maryland, to be a Judge of
the United States Court of Federal
Claims for a term of fifteen years.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland,
to be a Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years.
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Tim Scott,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Roger
F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Richard
Burr, Mike Crapo, David Perdue, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar Nos. 247 through 251 and 253
through 286 and all of the nominations
on the Secretary’s Desk in the Air
Force, Army, Marine Corps, and Navy;
that the nominations be confirmed;
that the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate;
that no further motions be in order;
that any statements related to the
nominations be printed in the RECORD;
and that the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nominations considered and con-
firmed are as follows:
IN THE ARMY
The following named Army National Guard
of the United States officer for appointment
in the Reserve of the Army to the grade indi-
cated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12211:
To be brigadier general
Col. Edward S. Smith
IN THE MARINE CORPS
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Marine Corps to
the grade indicated under title 10, U.S.C.,
section 624:
To be brigadier general
Col. Marcus B. Annibale
Col. Melvin G. Carter
Col. Robert C. Fulford
Col. Joseph A. Matos, III
Col. Jason L. Morris
Col. Thomas B. Savage
Col. Daniel L. Shipley
Col. James B. Wellons
Col. Brian N. Wolford
IN THE ARMY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Duane A. Gamble
IN THE NAVY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be vice admiral
Rear Adm. Scott D. Conn
IN THE ARMY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment as Chief of Staff of the Army and ap-
pointment in the United States Army to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., sections 601 and 7033:
To be general
Gen. James C. McConville
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named Air National Guard of
the United States officer for appointment in
the Reserve of the Air Force to the grade in-
dicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Marc H. Sasseville
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Eric T. Fick
IN THE ARMY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment as Vice Chief of Staff of the Army and
appointment in the United States Army to
the grade indicated while assigned to a posi-
tion of importance and responsibility under
title 10, U.S.C., sections 601 and 7034:
To be general
Lt. Gen. Joseph M. Martin
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. Laura J. Richardson
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Robert P. White
IN THE NAVY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be vice admiral
Vice Adm. William R. Merz
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be vice admiral
Rear Adm. Ross A. Myers
IN THE MARINE CORPS
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Marine Corps to
the grade indicated while assigned to a posi-
tion of importance and responsibility under
title 10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. Eric M. Smith
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be general
Lt. Gen. Arnold W. Bunch, Jr.
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section
624:
To be brigadier general
Col. David A. Harris, Jr.
IN THE NAVY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment as Chief of Naval Operations and ap-
pointment in the United States Navy to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., sections 601 and 8033:
To be admiral
Adm. William F. Moran
The following named officer for appoint-
ment as Vice Chief of Naval Operations and
appointment in the United States Navy to
the grade indicated while assigned to a posi-
tion of importance and responsibility under
title 10, U.S.C., sections 601 and 8035:
To be admiral
Vice Adm. Robert P. Burke
IN THE MARINE CORPS
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Marine Corps to
the grade indicated while assigned to a posi-
tion of importance and responsibility under
title 10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. Herman S. Clardy, III
IN THE ARMY
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. Peter B. Andrysiak, Jr.
Brig. Gen. Jonathan P. Braga
Brig. Gen. John W. Brennan, Jr.
Brig. Gen. Miguel A. Correa
Brig. Gen. Clement S. Coward, Jr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.056 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3089
May 23, 2019
Brig. Gen. Patrick J. Donahoe
Brig. Gen. Christopher T. Donahue
Brig. Gen. Scott L. Efflandt
Brig. Gen. Michael R. Fenzel
Brig. Gen. David J. Francis
Brig. Gen. Bradley T. Gericke
Brig. Gen. Neil S. Hersey
Brig. Gen. Lonnie G. Hibbard
Brig. Gen. Diana M. Holland
Brig. Gen. Omar J. Jones, IV
Brig. Gen. Stephen J. Maranian
Brig. Gen. Matthew W. McFarlane
Brig. Gen. Christopher O. Mohan
Brig. Gen. Laura A. Potter
Brig. Gen. Thomas A. Pugh
Brig. Gen. Robert A. Rasch, Jr.
Brig. Gen. John B. Richardson, IV
Brig. Gen. Kenneth T. Royar
Brig. Gen. Stephen G. Smith
Brig. Gen. Thomas H. Todd, III
Brig. Gen. Kevin Vereen
Brig. Gen. Robert F. Whittle, Jr.
Brig. Gen. David Wilson
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named Air National Guard of
th United States officer for appointment in
the Reserve of the Air Force to the grade in-
dicated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12212:
To be brigadier general
Col. Tracy D. Smith
The following named Air National Guard of
th United States officer for appointment in
the Reserve of the Air Force to the grade in-
dicated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12212:
To be brigadier general
Col. Frank W. Roy
IN THE ARMY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Leopoldo A. Quintas, Jr.
The following named Army National Guard
of the United States officer for appointment
in the Reserve of the Army to the grade indi-
cated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12211:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. Kenneth A. Nava
The following named Army National Guard
of the United States officers for appointment
in the Reserve of the Army to the grade indi-
cated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12211:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. Francis J. Evon, Jr.
Brig. Gen. David J. Mikolaities
The following Army National Guard of the
United States officer for appointment in the
Reserve of the Army to the grade indicated
under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203 and
12211:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. Mark J. Schindler
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the Reserve of the Army to the
grades indicated under title 10, U.S.C., sec-
tion 12203:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. John F. Hussey
Brig. Gen. Andrew J. Juknelis
To be brigadier general
Col. Jan C. Norris
Col. Michael K. Pyle
The following named Army National Guard
of the United States officers for appointment
in the Reserve of the Army to the grade indi-
cated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12211:
To be brigadier general
Col. Nicole M. Balliet
Col. James A. Benson
Col. Brian D. Bobo
Col. Rodney C. Boyd
Col. Andre J. Chevalier
Col. Michael N. Cleveland
Col. Amy F. Cook
Col. Timothy D. Covington
Col. Ronald A. Cupples
Col. Jamie J. Dailey
Col. Ronnie B. Delfin
Col. Thomas C. Friloux
Col. Kevin A. Fujimoto
Col. Doyle Gillis, Jr.
Col. Charles D. Hausman
Col. Cindy H. Haygood
Col. Lynn M. Heng
Col. Larry L. Henry
Col. Scott W. Hiipakka
Col. Christine L. Hoffmann
Col. Bryan M. Howay
Col. Jack A. James
Col. Nick Johnson
Col. Robert J. Larkin
Col. John A. Leblanc
Col. David A. Lopina
Col. Corwin J. Lusk
Col. Roger D. Lyles
Col. Thomas H. Mancino
Col. Timothy S. Mclaughlin
Col. Alberto L. Miranda
Col. Jennifer R. Mitchell
Col. Jesse M. Morehouse
Col. Alan B. Naugher
Col. John T. Oakley
Col. Douglas A. Paul
Col. John A. Pelleriti
Col. John J. Perkins
Col. Dean A. Preston
Col. Stephen L. Rhoades
Col. Christopher S. Sandison
Col. Stephen E. Schemenauer
Col. Matthew D. Smith
Col. Wallace E. Steinbrecher
Col. Robin B. Stilwell
Col. Craig W. Strong
Col. Blair E. Tinkham
Col. Michael A. Tougher, III
Col. Michael E. Wegscheider
Col. Brian F. Wertzler
Col. Richard A. Wholey
Col. Richard D. Wilson
Col. John J. Wojcik
Col. James A. Zollar
The following named Army National Guard
of the United States officers for appointment
in the Reserve of the Army to the grade indi-
cated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12211:
To be brigadier general
Col. Bradley J. Cox
Col. Carl C. Danberg
Col. Daniel H. Dent
Col. Ralph R. Robovsky
Col. Adam C. Volant
The following Army National Guard of the
United States officers for appointment in the
Reserve of the Army to the grades indicated
under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203 and
12211:
To be brigadier general
Col. Andrew C. Diefenthaler
Col. James M. Jones
IN THE NAVY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Navy to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be vice admiral
Rear Adm. Sean S. Buck
IN THE MARINE CORPS
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Marine Corps to
the grade indicated while assigned to a posi-
tion of importance and responsibility under
title 10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. John J. Broadmeadow
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Marine Corps to
the grade indicated while assigned to a posi-
tion of importance and responsibility under
title 10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. Brian D. Beaudreault
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Marine Corps to
the grade indicated while assigned to a posi-
tion of importance and responsibility under
title 10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. George W. Smith, Jr.
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Marine Corps to
the grade indicated while assigned to a posi-
tion of importance and responsibility under
title 10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. Robert F. Hedelund
IN THE ARMY
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the Reserve of the Army to the
grades indicated under title 10, U.S.C., sec-
tion 12203:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. Rodney L. Faulk
Brig. Gen. Deborah L. Kotulich
Brig. Gen. Frederick R. Maiocco
Brig. Gen. Gregory J. Mosser
Brig. Gen. John H. Phillips
Brig. Gen. Joe D. Robinson
Brig. Gen. Alberto C. Rosende
Brig. Gen. Richard C. Staats, Jr.
Brig. Gen. Kevin C. Wulfhorst
To be brigadier general
Col. Timothy E. Brennan
Col. Cary J. Cowan, Jr.
Col. Christopher J. Dziubek
Col. Jeffrey M. Farris
Col. Robert E. Guidry
Col. Michelle A. Link
Col. Laurence S. Linton
Col. Pamela L. McGaha
Col. Steven B. McLaughlin
Col. Joseph A. Papenfus
Col. Joseph A. Ricciardi
Col. Patricia R. Wallace
Col. David P. Warshaw
Col. Stuart E. Werner
Col. Wanda N. Williams
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. David S. Nahom
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10 U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. Marshall B. Webb
IN THE ARMY
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be brigadier general
Col. Jack M. Davis
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.088 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3090 May 23, 2019
Col. Paula C. Lodi
Col. Mark W. Thompson
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated under title 10, U.S.C., section 624:
To be major general
Brig. Gen. Jeffery D. Broadwater
NOMINATIONS PLACED ON THE SECRETARY’S
DESK
IN THE AIR FORCE
PN568 AIR FORCE nomination of Chris-
topher B. Athearn, which was received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of April 4, 2019.
PN620 AIR FORCE nominations (3) begin-
ning ERIKA O. BERNARDO, and ending
CAROLE M.Y. VILLAMARIA, which nomi-
nations were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of April
11, 2019.
PN621 AIR FORCE nominations (5) begin-
ning COREY T. BEALS, and ending CHRIS-
TOPHER R. WILLIAMS, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of April 11, 2019.
PN622 AIR FORCE nomination of Daniel
W. Schlieder, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of April 11, 2019.
PN623 AIR FORCE nominations (43) begin-
ning DEBORAH J. ANGELES, and ending
KERI L. YOUNG, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of April 11, 2019.
PN649 AIR FORCE nomination of Douglas
P. Wickert, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of April 29, 2019.
PN650 AIR FORCE nomination of Richard
T. Cooney, Jr., which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of April 29, 2019.
PN652 AIR FORCE nominations (2) begin-
ning TAMMIE A. CANADA, and ending
DOUGLAS N. SCHNEEKLOTH, which nomi-
nations were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of April
29, 2019.
PN654 AIR FORCE nominations (52) begin-
ning ALEXANDER A. ADELEYE, and ending
DESBAH R. YAZZIE, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of April 29, 2019.
PN655 AIR FORCE nominations (4) begin-
ning LEO J. BURKARDT, and ending DAVID
M. MAURER, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of April 29, 2019.
PN694 AIR FORCE nominations (3) begin-
ning MICHAEL R. CABRAL, and ending RAY
A. ZUNIGA, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of April 29, 2019.
PN709 AIR FORCE nomination of Tann S.
Jones, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of May
2, 2019.
IN THE ARMY
PN569 ARMY nomination of Theodore W.
Kleisner, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 4, 2019.
PN570 ARMY nomination of Robert W.
Hughes, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 4, 2019.
PN571 ARMY nomination of Larry R. Jor-
dan, Jr., which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 4, 2019.
PN572 ARMY nomination of Kontrina S.
Park, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 4, 2019.
PN573 ARMY nomination of Marcus L. Jor-
dan, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 4, 2019.
PN574 ARMY nominations (3) beginning
ROBERT M. HUDSON, and ending JAMES D.
SIZEMORE, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of April 4, 2019.
PN575 ARMY nominations (4) beginning
JOHN E. CALLIHAN, II, and ending JEF-
FREY F. RYAN, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of April 4, 2019.
PN576 ARMY nomination of Boguslaw A.
Augustyn, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 4, 2019.
PN577 ARMY nominations (154) beginning
JAMES R. ACHENBACH, and ending KEITH
B. WEBER, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of April 4, 2019.
PN578 ARMY nominations (50) beginning
KEITH A. ARCHIBALD, and ending FRANK
L. WITSBERGER, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of April 4, 2019.
PN579 ARMY nominations (210) beginning
TIMOTHY B. ALEXANDER, and ending
WING Y. YU, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of April 4, 2019.
PN624 ARMY nomination of Christopher L.
Metzger, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 11, 2019.
PN625 ARMY nomination of Jonathan W.
Anderson, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 11, 2019.
PN656 ARMY nomination of Brian J. Reed,
which was received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of April
29, 2019.
PN657 ARMY nomination of Thomas J.
Wargo, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 29, 2019.
PN658 ARMY nomination of Terrence
Sommers, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 29, 2019.
PN660 ARMY nomination of David M.
Rozelle, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 29, 2019.
PN661 ARMY nomination of Tony L.
Dedmond, Jr., which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of April 29, 2019.
PN662 ARMY nomination of Ray G.
McCulloch, II, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of April 29, 2019.
PN665 ARMY nomination of Cory J. Cous-
ins, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 29, 2019.
PN666 ARMY nomination of Damon L. Au-
gustine, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 29, 2019.
PN667 ARMY nomination of Paul J.
Stambaugh, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of April 29, 2019.
PN668 ARMY nomination of Brenton D.
Griffith, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 29, 2019.
PN669 ARMY nomination of Andrew E.
Radbill, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 29, 2019.
PN672 ARMY nominations (2) beginning
RICHARD ELIAS, and ending WILLIAM A.
WATTS, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of April 29, 2019.
PN673 ARMY nominations (12) beginning
MARLON G. BURNS, and ending MICHAEL
F. WOOD, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of April 29, 2019.
PN674 ARMY nominations (2) beginning
PAUL R. BARBO, and ending MARK A.
WURTH, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of April 29, 2019.
PN675 ARMY nominations (5) beginning
FREDERICK W. ALF, III, and ending MI-
CHAEL D. LEWIS, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of April 29, 2019.
PN697 ARMY nominations (23) beginning
TIMOTHY S. ADAMS, and ending DENNIS
R. TURNER, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of April 30, 2019.
PN698 ARMY nominations (44) beginning
CAROL A. ANDERSON, and ending ABDUL
R. WILLIS, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of April 30, 2019.
PN699 ARMY nominations (7) beginning
THOMAS A. BRYANT, and ending ARTHUR
F. YEAGER, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of April 30, 2019.
PN700 ARMY nominations (8) beginning
JEREMY J. BEARSS, and ending
MICHELLE THOMPSON, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of April 30, 2019.
PN710 ARMY nomination of Rebecca A.
Brawner, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
May 2, 2019.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
PN629 MARINE CORPS nominations (29)
beginning LESLIE S. ALBERS, and ending
SEAN E. ZUKOWSKY, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of April 11, 2019.
IN THE NAVY
PN315 NAVY nomination of Steven J.
Debich, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
January 24, 2019.
PN316 NAVY nomination of Neil Partain,
which was received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of Janu-
ary 24, 2019.
PN406 NAVY nomination of Robert G. Gra-
ham, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 12, 2019.
PN407 NAVY nomination of Laura C.
Gilstrap, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
February 12, 2019.
PN440 NAVY nomination of Micheal K.
Wagner, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
February 25, 2019.
PN441 NAVY nomination of Jason T.
Stepp, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 25, 2019.
PN442 NAVY nomination of Stephen C.
Plew, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of Feb-
ruary 25, 2019.
PN443 NAVY nomination of Michael D.
Krisman, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
February 25, 2019.
PN444 NAVY nomination of Michael J.
Cirivello, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
February 25, 2019.
PN445 NAVY nomination of Zachary J.
Conley, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
February 25, 2019.
PN488 NAVY nomination of Brentone E.
Helbig, which was received by the Senate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.090 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3091
May 23, 2019
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
March 5, 2019.
PN550 NAVY nomination of Patrick H.
O’Mahoney, which was received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of March 26, 2019.
PN581 NAVY nominations (3) beginning
GUY W. JENSEN, and ending VENITA M.
SIMPSON, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of April 4, 2019.
PN582 NAVY nomination of Marissa A.
Mayor, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 4, 2019.
PN583 NAVY nomination of Adam C. Han-
cock, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 4, 2019.
PN584 NAVY nomination of John J. East-
man, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 4, 2019.
PN626 NAVY nomination of Terence B.
McAdoo, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 11, 2019.
PN627 NAVY nomination of Donald A.
Sinitiere, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 11, 2019.
PN628 NAVY nominations (45) beginning
ROBERT H. BATTLE, and ending KEITH E.
WILBER, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of April 11, 2019.
PN689 NAVY nomination of Riley A. Walls,
which was received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of April
29, 2019.
PN690 NAVY nomination of Benjamin D.
Adams, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 29, 2019.
PN691 NAVY nomination of Jessica M. Mil-
ler, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 29, 2019.
PN692 NAVY nomination of Frank R.
Bittner, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 29, 2019.
PN693 NAVY nomination of David M.
Groves, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
April 29, 2019.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 226, 227, 228, 235,
236, and 237.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The bill clerk read the nominations
of Michael G. Bailey, of Arizona, to be
United States Attorney for the District
of Arizona for the term of four years;
Brent R. Bunn, of Idaho, to be United
States Marshal for the District of
Idaho for the term of four years; Eric
S. Gartner, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States Marshal for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania for the term
of four years; Timothy J. Downing, of
Oklahoma, to be United States Attor-
ney for the Western District of Okla-
homa for the term of four years; Wil-
liam Travis Brown, Jr., of Louisiana,
to be United States Marshal for the
Middle District of Louisiana for the
term of four years; and Michael Blaine
East, of North Carolina, to be United
States Marshal for the Eastern District
of North Carolina for the term of four
years.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nominations en bloc with no inter-
vening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table en bloc; that the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion; that no further motions be in
order; and that any statements related
to the nominations be printed in the
RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Bailey, Bunn,
Gartner, Downing, Brown, and East
nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of the
following nominations: Executive Cal-
endar Nos. 112 and 124.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The bill clerk read the nominations
of William Bookless, of California, to
be Principal Deputy Administrator,
National Nuclear Security Administra-
tion, and Christopher Fall, of Virginia,
to be Director of the Office of Science,
Department of Energy.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nominations with no intervening ac-
tion or debate; that if confirmed, the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table; that the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action; that no further
motions be in order; and that any
statements relating to the nominations
be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Bookless and
Fall nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREE-
MENT—EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
further ask unanimous consent that at
a time to be determined by the major-
ity leader, in consultation with the
Democratic leader, the Senate proceed
to executive session and the consider-
ation of Executive Calendar No. 122;
that the Senate vote on the nomina-
tion with no intervening action or de-
bate; that if confirmed, the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table; that the President be
immediately notified of the Senate’s
action; that no further motions be in
order; and that any statements relat-
ing to the nomination be printed in the
RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 177, 220, 289, 290,
291, 179, 218, and all nominations on the
Secretary’s Desk in the Foreign Serv-
ice.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The bill clerk read the nominations
of Michael J. Fitzpatrick, of Virginia,
a Career Member of the Senior Foreign
Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to
be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America to the Republic of Ecuador;
Kate Marie Byrnes, of Florida, a Career
Member of the Senior Foreign Service,
Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Am-
bassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to the Republic of North Mac-
edonia; Bridget A. Brink, of Michigan,
a Career Member of the Senior Foreign
Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to
be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America to the Slovak Republic; John
Jefferson Daigle, of Louisiana, a Career
Member of the Senior Foreign Service,
Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Am-
bassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to the Republic of Cabo Verde;
Matthew S. Klimow, of New York, a
Career Member of the Senior Executive
Service, to be Ambassador Extraor-
dinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to
Turkmenistan; Jeffrey Ross Gunter, of
California, to be Ambassador Extraor-
dinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Repub-
lic of Iceland; James S. Gilmore, of
Virginia, to be U.S. Representative to
the Organization for Security and Co-
operation in Europe, with the rank of
Ambassador; PN519 FOREIGN SERV-
ICE nominations (7) beginning Kenneth
H. Merten, and ending Kevin M.
Whitaker, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in
the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD of March
25, 2019; PN604 FOREIGN SERVICE
nomination of Lisa Anne Rigoli, which
was received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD of
April 10, 2019; and PN607 FOREIGN
SERVICE nominations (5) beginning
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.092 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3092 May 23, 2019
Timothy Ryan Harrison, and ending
Rachel Lynne Vanderberg, which nomi-
nations were received by the Senate
and appeared in the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD of April 10, 2019.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nominations en bloc with no inter-
vening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table en bloc; that the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion; that no further motions be in
order; and that any statements relat-
ing to the nominations be printed in
the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Fitzpatrick,
Byrnes, Brink, Daigle, Klimow, Gunter,
and Gilmore nominations and all nomi-
nations on the Secretary’s Desk in the
Foreign Service en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the following nominations: Ex-
ecutive Calendar Nos. 187 and 215.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The bill clerk read the nominations
of John Barsa, of Florida, to be an As-
sistant Administrator of the United
States Agency for International Devel-
opment and Richard C. Parker, of
North Carolina, to be an Assistant Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agen-
cy for International Development.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nominations en bloc
with no intervening action or debate;
that if confirmed, the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table en bloc; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments relating to the nominations be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Barsa and
Parker nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO ALVIN H. PERRY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
today it is my high honor to pay trib-
ute to a genuine Kentucky hero. As a
member of the greatest generation,
Alvin H. Perry of Wilmore, KY, per-
sonifies the greatest values of our Na-
tion. In the Second World War, he
fought with the Allied forces of free-
dom to defeat one of the greatest evils
the world has ever known. In doing so,
Alvin earned the lasting admiration of
his countrymen and the gratitude of
the free world.
To commemorate the 75th anniver-
sary of D-day, the largest amphibious
invasion in world history, the French
Republic will express its thanks and re-
spect to Alvin in a special way. At a
ceremony in Wilmore, the Consul Gen-
eral of France responsible for Ken-
tucky Guillaume Lacroix will present
Alvin, now 95, with his nation’s highest
distinction: the Legion of Honor Medal.
The American and French people
share a unique bond of friendship. As
our consequential ally during the War
of Independence, our two countries
stood shoulder-to-shoulder in the pur-
suit of liberty and equality. Years
later, millions of American soldiers
would fight in France to defend those
same principles. More than 100,000 of
them would make the ultimate sac-
rifice there, and tens of thousands of
our heroic fallen rest in French soil
forevermore.
There is perhaps no better display of
this brotherhood among nations than
the events during Operation Overlord.
On the beaches of Normandy and across
the French countryside, American
forces once more came to the defense
of our friends and our shared ideals. It
was during the Battle of Normandy
that PFC Alvin Perry and his 331st In-
fantry Regiment, 83rd Infantry Divi-
sion, took their first steps onto the Eu-
ropean continent fighting for the lib-
eration of France.
During the battle, Alvin was wound-
ed, struck with a bullet in his shoulder.
He was unable to receive proper med-
ical attention and, along with other
members of his unit, was later cap-
tured by the enemy. Alvin spent the
following 10 months as a prisoner of
war near Munich, where he endured
brutal conditions and forced labor in a
Nazi camp. He struggled each day, rely-
ing upon aid parcels for survival. But
through all his hardships, Alvin never
faltered or resigned to defeat. At long
last, it was the sight of an Allied tank
that finally meant liberation for this
brave soldier. It also marked the end of
his wartime service. Like his father
and brother who also served in uni-
form, Alvin bravely defended our de-
mocracy and our American way of life.
When Alvin returned home to Ken-
tucky, he was adorned with the Pris-
oner of War Medal, the Purple Heart
Medal, the Good Conduct Medal, and
the World War II Victory Medal for his
intrepid service in France. Now, after
more than seven decades, Alvin will
add another well-deserved decoration.
Originally founded by Napoleon Bo-
naparte in 1802, the National Order of
the Legion of Honor is bestowed only
on those who render the highest levels
of service to the French Republic and
her people. Receiving the honor, Alvin
joins a distinguished membership that
includes Secretary of State Colin Pow-
ell, General George C. Patton, and
First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt.
Our Nation’s veterans deserve our ut-
most respect and gratitude, and I am
grateful for the chance to honor this
particular hero. So, it is my sincere
privilege to congratulate Alvin for re-
ceiving this impressive distinction.
Through his service and sacrifice, he
has made us all quite proud. I ask my
Senate colleagues to join me, the peo-
ple of Kentucky, and the French Re-
public in thanking Alvin Perry for his
service to the cause of human freedom.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I was
necessarily absent from votes number
128 and number 129 due to the birth of
my granddaughter, Josephine Emily
Durbin. Had I been present, I would
have voted yea to waive the Budget
Act with respect to the emergency
spending to help the States and Terri-
tories impacted by storms and other
natural disasters. I would have voted
yea on passage of H.R. 2157, as amended
by the Shelby-Leahy substitute amend-
ment, as well.
f
NDAA
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, Demo-
crats continue to propose thoughtful,
effective solutions to the humanitarian
crisis at our southern border.
In February, after the President fi-
nally ended his government shutdown,
I helped write an omnibus appropria-
tions bill that included $564 million for
inspection equipment at ports of entry
to detect lethal narcotics and $414 mil-
lion for humanitarian assistance at the
border.
Last week, I and a number of my col-
leagues are reintroducing a comprehen-
sive bill to address the root causes of
the humanitarian crisis coming out of
the Northern Triangle. Our bill cracks
down on cartels and traffickers, pro-
vides for in-country processing so that
refugees can seek protection without
making a dangerous northbound jour-
ney, expands third-country resettle-
ment in the region, and eliminates im-
migration court backlogs.
I note with regret that the President
and his political appointees in the De-
partment of Defense have other prior-
ities. They continue to take from our
military and ignore our military’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.060 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3093
May 23, 2019
readiness to build the President’s me-
dieval wall.
We all remember Donald Trump’s
idea that we need a 2,000-mile concrete
wall from sea to shining sea and his
claim that Mexico would pay for it. He
said it some 200 times on the campaign
trail and in the Oval Office.
When Mexico said no, the President
told the military they would have to
pay for it. On February 15, President
Trump announced that he would go
around Congress and build the wall
with $6.1 billion that Congress gave to
our military. After the announcement,
the President was asked if he had con-
sulted his military advisers first. He
said that they told him some of the
tradeoffs, but, ‘‘It didn’t sound too im-
portant to me.’’
In March, Acting Secretary
Shanahan took the first step: taking $1
billion appropriated by Congress for
military pay and pensions to use for
the wall. DOD told us that they had
more money than they needed because
the Army missed their recruiting
goals.
At a hearing that same week, Sec-
retary of the Army Mark Esper admit-
ted that the Army hadn’t budgeted for
paying the salaries of the troops on the
border, and they were short $350 mil-
lion. Why didn’t Acting Secretary of
Defense Shanahan take this $1 billion
of extra funds and give some to the
Army? His notification to Congress
laid it out in disappointing detail. He
labeled the wall a ‘‘higher priority.’’
It is incredible that these are the pri-
orities of the President and Acting Sec-
retary Shanahan: wall first, military
last.
Then on May 10, Acting Secretary
Shanahan did it again, but he took $1.5
billion from the military this time.
The Washington Post headline the next
day said it all: ‘‘Pentagon will pull
money from ballistic missile and sur-
veillance plane programs to fund bor-
der wall.’’
Once again, the Pentagon claimed
that the funds were extra, that the
Pentagon couldn’t spend this missile
defense money and surveillance money
this year for various reasons. Once
again, the ‘‘higher priority’’ was the
wall.
But the Army isn’t the only one in
need. Each military service is blinking
red. Last month, in a leaked memo, the
head of the Marine Corps, General
Neller, said that the President’s deci-
sion was contributing to ‘‘unacceptable
risk to Marine Corps combat readiness
and solvency.’’
General Neller noted that the ma-
rines had already pulled out of three
military exercises and were cutting
back on combat equipment mainte-
nance because there wasn’t enough
money to go around. He noted that
Hurricanes Florence and Michael last
year had done $3.6 billion in damage to
Camp Lejeune and other Marine Corps
property. He said that marines were
living in ‘‘compromised housing,’’ with
another hurricane season starting up
this June. He also warned that he
might also have to cancel more than a
dozen additional exercises if the ma-
rines didn’t get budget help. Once
again, we are seeing the wall is first,
and the military is last.
In an unusual move late last month,
Secretary of the Air Force Heather
Wilson published an op-ed highlighting
the impact of several natural disasters
on Air Force bases. In October 2018,
Hurricane Michael inflicted $4.7 billion
of damage on Tyndall Air Force Base
in Florida. In March 2019, a historic
flood inundated Offutt Air Force base
in Nebraska, submerging dozens of
buildings. The Senate continues to
work on an emergency supplemental to
make a down payment on repairs at
these bases, as well as at Camp
Lejeune, but in the meantime, this $1.5
billion could have jump started repairs
months ago. Once again, the wall came
first, and the military came last.
In each case, the Pentagon didn’t ask
me to approve these transfers as it nor-
mally does. As vice chair of the De-
fense Appropriations Subcommittee, I
have different priorities, the ones I
have mentioned, and so they went
around me and the rest of Congress.
Also still to come is the $3.6 billion
from cancelling important military
construction projects. The damage con-
tinues to pile up. These harmful deci-
sions will continue until my Repub-
lican colleagues side with our military
over a campaign pledge. I hope they
think long and hard about which one of
those is more important.
f
NOMINATIONS
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, once
again, our Republican colleagues are
spending another week rubberstamping
President Trump’s extreme nominees.
Daniel Collins, nominated to a Cali-
fornia Ninth Circuit seat, received a
vote over the objection of both of Cali-
fornia’s Senators.
Before this year, a judicial nominee
had never been confirmed over the ob-
jection of both home State Senators.
Mr. Collins’s confirmation marked the
sixth time it has happened this year.
This Republican Senate has effec-
tively killed the blue slip for circuit
court nominations. This is a precedent
that could come back to haunt each of
our States. My Republican colleagues
who are voting repeatedly to override
home State Senators’ objections may
come to regret those votes someday.
I opposed the Collins nomination. I
agree with Senators Feinstein and Har-
ris that Collins has ‘‘a history of tak-
ing strong litigation positions for no
reason other than attempting to over-
turn precedent and push legal bound-
aries.’’
I am particularly troubled by his ex-
tensive representation of the tobacco
industry and his inadequate recusal
commitment when it comes to matters
involving his former tobacco industry
clients.
The district court nominees sched-
uled for votes this week also have a
long history of advancing extreme ide-
ological views.
When it comes to abortion, North
Carolina district court nominee Ken-
neth Bell once wrote in an op-ed,
‘‘There is no middle ground.’’ Missouri
district court nominee Stephen Clark
has spent much of his legal career liti-
gating against reproductive rights and
access to contraceptives.
Utah district court nominee Howard
Nielson wrote a memo for the Justice
Department’s Office of Legal Counsel,
arguing that the Geneva Conventions,
which prohibit torture, do not apply to
civilians captured abroad.
DC district nominee Carl Nichols has
advanced extreme views of Executive
power, including arguing that Presi-
dents and Presidential aides have abso-
lute immunity from congressional
process.
I opposed these extreme nominees,
and I regret that the Senate’s advice
and consent process has become an ex-
ercise in Republican rubberstamping.
This institution can and should do bet-
ter.
f
ALBERTO CURAMIL
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President I want to
bring to the Senate’s attention the
story and the example of Alberto
Curamil, an environmental activist
who is a member of the indigenous
Mapuche people in Chile’s Araucania
region. The Mapuche are Chile’s largest
indigenous group, and since the 1800s
they have struggled to protect their
culture, territory, rivers, forests, and
natural resources against encroach-
ment and destruction by settlers and
energy companies that have often
acted with impunity and the backing of
the government. Mr. Curamil has dedi-
cated his life to this cause. It is the ex-
istential struggle of indigenous people
in scores of countries as the insatiable
global demand for energy, arable land,
water, timber, oil, gas, and minerals
threatens their ancestral lands and
way of life.
Several years ago, during a prolonged
drought in Chile, the Ministry of En-
ergy announced a plan for two large
hydroelectric projects in Araucania,
without consulting the Mapuche people
who live there. The projects would re-
portedly divert more than 500 million
gallons of water for power generation,
severely limiting water flow and dam-
aging the ecosystem of the Cautin
River on which many of the Mapuche
people depend for survival.
Mr. Curamil, who has three children,
lives on the outskirts of the town of
Curacautin. He is a farmer who raises
animals. His wife teaches the Mapuche
language. Fearing what the harm to
the river would mean for his people, he
organized Mapuche and non-Mapuche,
environmental organizations, lawyers,
and academics to try to stop the
projects. In public protests and in
court, they argued that the govern-
ment had ignored Chilean law which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.029 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3094 May 23, 2019
requires free, prior, and informed con-
sent of affected communities before ap-
proving such projects. Despite harass-
ment, threats, and violent attacks, Mr.
Curamil succeeded in uniting the oppo-
sition, and in 2016 the projects were
canceled.
But that was not the end of it.
On August 14, 2018, Mr. Curamil was
arrested by Chile’s national police and
imprisoned. He has been charged with
assault during a bank robbery in which
a guard was injured and hostages
taken. An anonymous witness report-
edly said that one of the robbers looked
like a Mapuche, and they arrested Mr.
Curamil. There have been no judicial
proceedings, and Mr. Curamil remains
in pretrial detention.
Mr. Curamil and his family say that
he is a victim of retaliation for his en-
vironmental activism, that he was at-
tending a meeting in a different town
at the time of the robbery, and that
multiple people can attest to his pres-
ence there. At the time of his arrest,
his house was ransacked by police and
left in a shambles.
In November 2018, another Mapuche,
Camilo Catrillanca, age 24, died after
being shot in the back by police. He
was a member of the Mapuche Terri-
torial Alliance, a grassroots organiza-
tion that seeks to reintegrate the
Mapuche people through reclaiming
their language, territory, and rights
that were fractured and repeatedly vio-
lated during the past two centuries.
I mention these events to put in con-
text the recent announcement that
Alberto Curamil was selected as one of
the 2019 winners of the Goldman Envi-
ronmental Prize. The prize honors
grassroots environmental activists
from around the world, singling out in-
dividuals for their extraordinary and
sustained efforts to protect the natural
environment, often at great personal
risk.
Not only did Mr. Curamil lead a suc-
cessful challenge to the unlawful deci-
sion by the Chilean Ministry of Energy,
he is being subjected to what many
suspect is a flagrant and vindictive
abuse of the judicial process of the type
that we have come to expect in coun-
tries with authoritarian governments
like Russia but not democracies like
Chile.
If the Chilean authorities have cred-
ible evidence to support the charge
against Mr. Curamil, they should
produce it in a public trial and provide
him with the opportunity to defend
himself. Instead, nearly 10 months
since his arrest, he languishes in jail
while his wife and children are alone
fending for themselves.
The attempts to intimidate and si-
lence Mr. Curamil and the threats to
his people and the natural environment
are not unique. This is happening to in-
digenous people all over the world, and
each year the prestigious Goldman En-
vironmental Prize helps to call atten-
tion to those like Mr. Curamil who
have risked their lives on behalf of
their communities, wildlife species,
rivers, lakes, forests, and oceans that
are being threatened or destroyed.
Mr. Curamil is an activist for envi-
ronmental and social justice that Chil-
eans should take pride in. Like the
many hundreds in attendance in San
Francisco and Washington who cheered
when his daughter, Belen Curamil, re-
ceived the prize on his behalf, the Chil-
ean people should recognize Mr.
Curamil for his courageous defense of
Chile’s natural environment and di-
verse cultural heritage.
We should also be concerned that Mr.
Curamil ’s arrest takes place against a
backdrop of escalating violence be-
tween the national police and Mapuche
activists. At the heart of the dispute is
land ownership and lack of consulta-
tion on legislation or investment
projects that directly affect the
Mapuche. Timber is Chile’s second-
largest export commodity, worth bil-
lions of dollars annually, and the polit-
ical elite is deeply invested in the in-
dustry. Mapuche activists are engaged
in a campaign against the timber in-
dustry and its defenders in the govern-
ment. In response, prosecutors are
using an anti-terrorism law originally
introduced by the military dictatorship
of Augusto Pinochet to stifle political
dissent. The law allows for indefinite
pretrial detention, investigations being
kept secret for up to 6 months, and evi-
dence admitted in oral hearings from
anonymous witnesses, as in Mr.
Curamil ’s case.
This situation is aptly described by
Global Witness in its 2017 report, De-
fenders of the Earth:
It is increasingly clear that, globally, gov-
ernments and business are failing in their
duty to protect activists at risk . . . Iron-
ically, it is the activists themselves who are
painted as criminals, facing trumped-up
criminal charges and aggressive civil cases
brought by governments and companies
seeking to silence them. This criminaliza-
tion is used to intimidate defenders, tarnish
their reputations and lock them into costly
legal battles.
Chile’s police have intervened vio-
lently on the side of private companies,
intimidating Mapuche communities.
The UN Special Rapporteur on the
Rights of Indigenous Peoples warned
that the government and police are in-
creasingly targeting activists who are
campaigning to protect their land from
mining, logging, and dams. The Inter-
American Court of Human Rights has
condemned the Chilean Government
for applying anti-terrorism laws
against Mapuche leaders.
According to Amnesty International,
‘‘Although violence against defenders
is a constant in the region, little is
known about what is happening in
Chile, especially in relation to the his-
torical context of criminalization and
stigmatization of the Mapuche and
their leaders. The Chilean authorities
have an obligation to guarantee condi-
tions that enable human rights defend-
ers to carry out their work and to es-
tablish protection mechanisms for en-
vironmental defenders and Indigenous
leaders who face constant criminaliza-
tion and stigmatization.’’
Again, these circumstances are not
unique to Chile. Similar confrontations
are occurring in many countries. But
Mr. Curamil’s receipt of the Goldman
Environmental Prize should cause ev-
eryone to pay attention, and to ask,
Should not these issues be handled bet-
ter? Is it acceptable for the Chilean
Government to label these largely de-
fenseless, mostly impoverished people
as ‘‘terrorists,’’ for trying to protect
their territory and way of life? Should
not the Chilean Government act as a
convener of a dialogue that recognizes
the legitimate rights of its indigenous
population, that ensures they are con-
sulted in a timely and meaningful way,
as the law requires, about decisions
that affect them, and that their views
are properly reflected in those deci-
sions? Is that not the government’s re-
sponsibility? To listen to its citizens
who have traditionally been ignored
and whose way of life is threatened and
to find creative, sustainable solutions?
I join others in congratulating
Alberto Curamil for setting an example
at a time when the natural environ-
ment is under siege due to human de-
velopment; recklessness, and greed. We
see the consequences on every con-
tinent—tropical forests cut down for
oil palm plantations, coral reefs de-
stroyed, rivers polluted, dammed and
diverted, fish populations depleted, and
other wildlife species facing extinction.
Earlier this month, a UN assessment
of the world’s biodiversity compiled by
145 experts from 50 countries over 3
years, reported that ‘‘the health of eco-
systems on which we and all other spe-
cies depend is deteriorating more rap-
idly than ever. We are eroding the very
foundations of our economies, liveli-
hoods, food security, health and qual-
ity of life worldwide.’’
This is true in Chile as it is in vir-
tually every country. Complacency is
not an answer, and I hope the Chilean
Government will recognize that people
like Alberto Curamil should be listened
to and supported, not threatened and
jailed.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, I was
necessarily absent but, had I been
present on May 16, 2019, would have
voted no on rollcall vote No. 116, the
confirmation of Jeffrey A. Rosen, to be
Deputy Attorney General.
Mr. President, I was necessarily ab-
sent but, had I been present, would
have voted no on rollcall vote No. 123,
the confirmation of Howard C. Nielson,
Jr., of Utah, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the District of Utah.
Mr. President, I was necessarily ab-
sent but, had I been present, would
have voted no on rollcall vote No. 124,
the confirmation of Stephen R. Clark,
Sr., of Missouri, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District
of Missouri.
Mr. President, I was necessarily ab-
sent but, had I been present, would
have voted no on rollcall vote No. 125,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.030 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3095
May 23, 2019
the confirmation of Carl J. Nichols, of
the District of Columbia, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of Columbia.
Mr. President, I was necessarily ab-
sent but, had I been present, would
have voted no on rollcall vote No. 126,
the confirmation of Kenneth D. Bell, of
North Carolina, to be United States
District Judge for the Western District
of North Carolina.
f
BUDGET ENFORCEMENT LEVELS
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, section 251
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985, BBEDCA,
establishes statutory limits on discre-
tionary spending and allows for various
adjustments to those limits. In addi-
tion, sections 302 and 314(a) of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974 allow the
chairman of the Budget Committee to
establish and make revisions to alloca-
tions, aggregates, and levels consistent
with those adjustments.
The Senate will soon consider S.
Amdt. 250 to H.R. 2157, Supplemental
Appropriations Act, 2019. This measure
provides appropriations to address re-
cent natural disasters and contains
spending that qualifies for cap adjust-
ments under current statute.
This measure includes $19,121 million
in budget authority that is designated
as being for emergency purposes pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
BBEDCA. Of that amount, $2,693 mil-
lion is for spending in the security cat-
egory, and $16,428 million is for non-
security spending. CBO estimates that
this budget authority will result in
$5,364 million in outlays in fiscal year
2019.
As a result of the aforementioned
designations, I am revising the budget
authority and outlay allocations to the
Committee on Appropriations by in-
creasing revised security budget au-
thority by $2,693 million, revised non-
security budget authority by $16,428
million, and outlays by $5,364 million
in fiscal year 2019. Further, I am in-
creasing the budgetary aggregate for
fiscal year 2019 by $19,121 million in
budget authority and $5,364 million in
outlays.
I ask unanimous consent that the ac-
companying tables, which provide de-
tails about the adjustment, be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
REVISION TO BUDGETARY AGGREGATES
(Pursuant to Sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974)
$ in millions 2019
Current Spending Aggregates:
Budget Authority ........................................... 3,639,324
Outlays .......................................................... 3,550,009
Adjustments:
Budget Authority ........................................... 19,121
Outlays .......................................................... 5,364
Revised Spending Aggregates:
Budget Authority ........................................... 3,658,445
Outlays .......................................................... 3,555,373
REVISION TO SPENDING ALLOCATION TO THE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019
(Pursuant to Sections 302 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974)
$ in millions 2019
Current Allocation:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 716,000
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 620,577
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,356,400
Adjustments:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2,693
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 16,428
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 5,364
Revised Allocation:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 718,693
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 637,005
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,361,764
Memorandum: Detail of Adjustments Made Above Regular OCO
Program Integ-
rity
Disaster Relief Emergency Total
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ............................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0 2,693 2,693
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority ....................................................................................................................... 0 0 0 0 16,428 16,428
General Purpose Outlays ................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0 5,364 5,364
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–32 concerning the Navy’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Govern-
ment of Canada for defense articles and serv-
ices estimated to cost $387 million. After this
letter is delivered to your office, we plan to
issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–32
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Canada.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $288 million.
Other $99 million.
Total $387 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Four hundred twenty-five (425) MK 54
Lightweight Torpedo Conversion Kits.
Non-MDE: Also included are torpedo con-
tainers, Recoverable Exercise Torpedoes
(REXTORP) with containers, Fleet Exercise
Section (FES) and fuel tanks, air launch ac-
cessories for fixed wing, torpedo spare parts,
training, publications, support and test
equipment, U.S. Government and contractor
engineering, technical, and logistics support
services, and other related elements of logis-
tics and program support.
(iv) Military Department: Navy (CN–P–
AMP).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: CN–P–APR.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
MAY 16, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Canada—MK 54 Lightweight Torpedoes
The Government of Canada has requested
to buy four hundred twenty-five (425) MK 54
lightweight torpedo conversion kits. Also in-
cluded are torpedo containers, Recoverable
Exercise Torpedoes (REXTORP) with con-
tainers, Fleet Exercise Section (FES) and
fuel tanks, air launch accessories for fixed
wing, torpedo spare parts, training, publica-
tions, support and test equipment, U.S. Gov-
ernment and contractor engineering, tech-
nical, and logistics support services, and
other related elements of logistics and pro-
gram support. The total estimated program
cost is $387 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security objectives of
the United States by helping to improve the
military capability of Canada, a NATO ally
that is an important force for ensuring polit-
ical stability and economic progress and a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:57 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.033 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3096 May 23, 2019
contributor to military, peacekeeping and
humanitarian operations around the world.
Canada intends to upgrade its current in-
ventory of MK 46 torpedoes to the MK 54
with the purchase of these kits. The MK 54
torpedo is designed to be easily upgraded
from the existing MK 46 torpedo. Canada
plans to utilize MK 54 Lightweight Tor-
pedoes on its Royal Canadian Navy’s Halifax
class ships, the Royal Canadian Air Force’s
CP–140 Aurora Aircraft, and the CH–148 Mari-
time Helicopters. Canada will have no dif-
ficulty absorbing this equipment into its
armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The principal contractor for the MK 54
Torpedo is Raytheon Integrated Defense Sys-
tems, Portsmouth, Rhode Island. The Gov-
ernment of Canada is expected to negotiate
an offset agreement with Raytheon, in ac-
cordance with Canada’s Industrial and Tech-
nological Benefits (ITB) Policy, before sign-
ing the Letter of Offer and Acceptance
(LOA).
Implementation of this proposed sale will
not require the assignment of additional U.S.
Government or contractor representatives to
Canada. However, it is anticipated that engi-
neering and technical support services pro-
vided by the U.S. Government may be re-
quired on an interim basis for training and
technical assistance.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–32
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The MK 54 Torpedo is a conventional
torpedo that can be launched from surface
ships, and rotary and fixed wing aircraft.
The MK 54 is an upgrade to the MK 46 Tor-
pedo. The upgrade to the MK 54 entails re-
placement of the torpedo’s sonar and guid-
ance and control systems with modern tech-
nology. The new guidance and control sys-
tem uses a mixture of commercial-off-the-
shelf and custom-built electronics. The war-
head, fuel tank and propulsion system from
the MK 46 torpedo are re-used in the MK 54
configuration with minor modifications.
There is no sensitive technology in the MK
54 or its support and test equipment. The as-
sembled MK 54 torpedo and several of its in-
dividual components are classified CON-
FIDENTIAL. The MK 54 operational software
is classified as SECRET. Canada has not re-
quested nor will it be provided with the
source code for the MK 54 operational soft-
ware.
2. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures or equivalent systems which might
reduce weapon system effectiveness or be
used in the development of a system with
similar or advanced capabilities.
3. A determination has been made that
Canada can provide substantially the same
degree of protection for the technology being
released as the U.S. Government. This sale
supports the U.S. foreign policy and national
security objectives as outlined in the Policy
Justification.
4. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to Canada.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–31, concerning the Air Force’s proposed
Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Gov-
ernment of Japan for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $317 million. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOPPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–31
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(l) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Japan.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment* $302 million.
Other $15 million.
Total $317 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
One hundred sixty (160) AIM–120C–7 Ad-
vanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles
(AMRAAM).
One (1) AIM–120C–7 AMRAAM Guidance
Section.
Non-MDE: Also included are containers,
weapon support and support equipment,
spare and repair parts, U.S. Government and
contractor engineering, technical and
logistical support services, and other related
elements of logistical and program support.
(iv) Military Department: Air Force (JA–
D–YCM).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: JA–D–YAO,
JA–D–YAK, JA–D–YAI, JA–D–YAH.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
May 16, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Japan—AIM–l20C–7 Advanced Medium-
Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAM)
The Government of Japan has requested to
buy one hundred sixty (160) AIM–l20C–7 Ad-
vanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles
(AMRAAM), and one (1) AIM–120C–7
AMRAAM guidance section. Also included
are containers, weapon support and support
equipment, spare and repair parts, U.S. Gov-
ernment and contractor engineering, tech-
nical and logistical support services, and
other related elements of logistical and pro-
gram support. The total estimated program
cost is $317 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security of the United
States by improving the security of a major
ally that is a force for political stability and
economic progress in the Asia-Pacific region.
It is vital to U.S. national interests to assist
Japan in developing and maintaining a
strong and effective self-defense capability.
The proposed sale of these missiles will
provide Japan a critical air defense capa-
bility to assist in defending the Japanese
homeland and U.S. personnel stationed
there. Japan will have no difficulty absorb-
ing these additional missiles into its armed
forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support does not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The prime contractor is Raytheon Missile
Systems, Tucson, Arizona. There are no
known offset arrangements proposed in con-
nection with this potential sale. Any offset
agreement will be defined in negotiations be-
tween the Purchaser and the prime con-
tractor.
Inplementation of this sale will not require
the assignment of U.S. Government or con-
tractor representatives in Japan.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–31
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(l) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The proposed sale will involve the re-
lease of sensitive technology to the Govern-
ment of Japan related to the AIM–120C–7 Ad-
vance Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile
(AMRAAM). The AIM–120C–7 AMRAAM is a
radar guided missile featuring digital tech-
nology and micro-miniature solidstate elec-
tronics. AMRAAM capabilities include look-
down/shoot-down, multiple launches against
multiple targets, resistance to electronic
countermeasures, and interception of high
flying, low flying, and maneuvering targets.
The AMRAAM All Up Round is classified
CONFIDENTIAL. The major components and
subsystems are classified from UNCLASSI-
FIED to CONFIDENTIAL, and technology
data and other documentation are classified
up to SECRET.
2. If a technologically advanced adversary
obtained knowledge of the specific hardware
or software in the proposed sale, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures which might reduce weapons sys-
tem effectiveness or be used in the develop-
ment of a system with similar or advanced
capabilities.
3. The sensitive technology being released
under this notification is subject to the secu-
rity criteria established in National Disclo-
sure Policy (NDP–1) for the Government of
Japan. This sale is necessary in furtherance
of the U.S. foreign policy and national secu-
rity objectives outlined in the Policy Jus-
tification.
4. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to Japan.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.041 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3097
May 23, 2019
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–26 concerning the Navy’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Repub-
lic of Korea for defense articles and services
estimated to cost $313.9 million. After this
letter is delivered to your office, we plan to
issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–26
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Republic of
Korea.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $292.4 million.
Other $21.5 million.
Total $313.9 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Up to ninety-four (94) Rounds of SM–2
Block IIIB Standard Missiles.
Twelve (12) MK 97 MOD 0 Guidance Sec-
tions for SM–2 Block IIIB.
Non-MDE: Also included is technical as-
sistance; training and training equipment;
publication and technical data; and related
logistics support, and other related elements
of logistics and program support.
(iv) Military Department: Navy (KS–P–
AMO and KS–P–AMR)
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: KS–P–AHU,
KS–P–AJA, KS–P–AJX, KS–P–ALM
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Annex Attached.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
May 16, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Korea—SM–2 Block IIIB
The Republic of Korea (ROK) has requested
to buy up to ninety-four (94) rounds of SM–
2 Block IIIB Standard Missiles and twelve
(12) MK 97 MOD 0 Guidance Sections for SM–
2 Block IIIB. Also included is technical as-
sistance: training and training equipment;
publication and technical data; and related
logistics support, and other related elements
of logistics and program support. The total
estimated program cost is $313.9 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security objectives of
the United States by meeting the legitimate
security and defense needs of one of the clos-
est allies in the INDOPACOM Theater. The
Republic of Korea is one of the major polit-
ical and economic powers in East Asia and
the Western Pacific and a key partner of the
United States in ensuring peace and stability
in that region.
The ROK Navy intends to use the SM–2
Block IIIB to supplement it existing inven-
tory. The proposed sale will provide a defen-
sive capability while enhancing interoper-
ability with U.S. and other allied forces. The
Republic of Korea will have no difficulty ab-
sorbing these additional missiles into its
armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The prime contractor will be the Raytheon
Missile Systems Company, Tucson, Arizona.
There are no known offset agreements pro-
posed in connection with this potential sale.
Any offset agreement will be defined in nego-
tiations between the Purchaser and the
prime contractor.
Implementation of the proposed sale will
not require the assignment of any additional
U.S. Government or contractor representa-
tives to the ROK. However, U.S. Government
or contractor personnel in-country visits
will be required on a temporary basis in con-
junction with program technical oversight
and support requirements.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–26
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The SM–2 Block IIIB Standard Missile
consists of a Guidance Unit, Dual Thrust
Rocket Motor, Steering Control Unit, and
Telemeter with omni-directional antenna.
The proposed sale will result in the transfer
of sensitive technology and information as
well as classified and unclassified defense
equipment and technical data. The hardware
and installed software is classified SECRET.
Training documentation is classified CON-
FIDENTIAL. Shipboard operational/tactical
employment is generally CONFIDENTIAL,
but includes some SECRET data. The all-up
round Standard Missiles are classified CON-
FIDENTIAL. Certain operating frequencies
and performance characteristics are classi-
fied SECRET.
2. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures that might reduce weapon system
effectiveness or be used in the development
of a system with similar or advanced capa-
bilities.
3. A determination has been made that the
recipient government can provide substan-
tially the same degree of protection for the
technology being released as the U.S. Gov-
ernment. This sale supports the U.S. foreign
policy and national security objectives as
outlined in the Policy Justification.
4. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to the Republic of Korea.
f
MEMORIAL DAY
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, on this
Memorial Day, I join all Americans in
recognizing the brave men and women
in uniform who have made the ulti-
mate sacrifice while serving our coun-
try. Freedom is not free; it costs the
blood shed by America’s sons and
daughters, who unselfishly served their
country and laid down their lives for
its protection. The impact of their sac-
rifice is enduring, forever felt by the
parents, spouses, children, friends, and
loved ones they left behind.
Army CPT Brian Bunting, known by
all his friends as Bubba, grew up in Po-
tomac, MD. He was a distinguished
athlete and scholar during his 6 years
at the Bullis School, and chose to at-
tend the U.S. Military Academy.
Shortly after the September 11 ter-
rorist attacks, Brian graduated in 2002
and was commissioned as an Army offi-
cer. Brian was known for his infectious
laughter and humor and eventually
married Nicole Pascal Bunting in 2006;
Nikki had known Brian since the sixth
grade. Shortly after Nicole gave birth
to their infant son, Connor, Brian
would answer the call of duty when ac-
tivated by the Individual Ready Re-
serve to deploy to Afghanistan with
the 27th Infantry Brigade Combat
Team. During his deployment, he re-
turned home for leave and was able to
spend a short period with his wife and
son, Connor. A few days after his re-
turn to Afghanistan, Brian was killed
by a roadside bomb in Kandahar on
February 24, 2009. At the age of 29, not
only did Brian leave behind his wife
Nikki and infant son Connor, but he
also left behind another son, Cooper,
who would be born months after
Brian’s death.
I remember the sacrifice of Balti-
more native SGT Damion G. Campbell.
The Forest Park High School faculty
described Damion as being ‘‘very mild-
tempered and sophisticated,’’ as some-
one who served as a leader and role
model for younger students. Damion’s
mother, Donna Robinson, described
him as an ‘‘outgoing, fun-loving and
joyful person’’ who was passionate
about the Army. Sergeant Campbell
was a 23-year-old Army medic serving
in Afghanistan and was killed in action
on August 26, 2005, when a bomb ex-
ploded near his vehicle during a patrol
in the Khayr Kot district. We remem-
ber him today for his ultimate sacrifice
and thank him for his service and pas-
sion for America.
Like Sergeant Campbell, Army SPL
Toccara Green of Rosedale, MD, also
excelled at Forest Park High School,
where she spent all 4 years in the Jun-
ior ROTC program. She graduated from
high school in 2000 and attended Nor-
folk State University in Virginia,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.038 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3098 May 23, 2019
where she studied telecommunications
and broadcasting. In 2002, Toccara
joined the Army and was assigned to
the 10th Mountain Division. While she
was deployed to Iraq, part of her job
was operating a 50-caliber machine gun
on an Army supply truck during con-
voy operations, a critical role to pro-
tect the convoy and thwart enemy at-
tacks. She once told her family ‘‘her
ideal situation was to go out fighting
for our country.’’ Toccara had an op-
portunity to return home to Baltimore
on leave during her deployment. Less
than a week after redeploying to Iraq,
Specialist Green was killed at the age
of 23 by a roadside bomb and became
Maryland’s first woman soldier killed
in combat in Iraq.
Across Maryland and across the
country, there are countless others
like Captain Bunting, Sergeant Camp-
bell, Specialist Green, and their fami-
lies who have made the ultimate sac-
rifice throughout the history of this
country. Their sense of duty, honor,
and country defined their character
and were reflective of their actions.
They not only represent the best of
who we are as a nation, they are exam-
ples of who we all should aspire to be.
Freedom isn’t free. The incredible
courage and actions of those who have
fallen have enabled our freedom and
way of life to continue and at such a
profound price. This weekend, I will
pray for the families in Maryland, and
across the United States, who have lost
loved ones defending our freedom. I
will also pray for the safe return of our
brave men and women currently serv-
ing abroad. Let us never forget their
service, and may we forever honor
their sacrifice.
f
ASIAN PACIFIC AMERICAN
HERITAGE MONTH
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, each
year during the month of May, Asian
Pacific American Heritage Month calls
us to celebrate and reflect on the rich
history of Asian Americans and Pacific
Islanders. These communities draw
from an incredibly diverse range of cul-
tures, languages, and religions that all
come together to make the United
States a more vibrant nation. Whether
as natives or as immigrants, Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders have
long played a pivotal role in the his-
tory of the United States since even be-
fore its founding.
Congress first recognized the con-
tributions of Asian Americans and Pa-
cific Islanders with the introduction of
a resolution in 1977 by Representatives
Frank Horton of New York and Nor-
man Mineta of California and, later,
Senators Daniel Inouye and Spark
Matsunaga, both of Hawaii. This reso-
lution proclaimed the first 10 days of
May as Asian Pacific American Herit-
age Week. It took Representative Hor-
ton’s reintroduction of a modified reso-
lution in 1978 for Congress to pass it
and for President Jimmy Carter to sign
it. Presidents would then go on to issue
annual proclamations for Asian Pacific
American Heritage Week until 1990,
when Congress expanded Asian Pacific
American Heritage Week to the entire
month, and President George H. W.
Bush designated May 1990 as the first
Asian Pacific American Heritage
Month. In 1992, congressional passage
of a final resolution permanently des-
ignated the month of May as Asian Pa-
cific American Heritage Month.
Since the beginning, the choice of the
first several days and, later, the month
of May served to honor the memory of
the arrival of the first Japanese to the
United States on May 7, 1843, as well as
the completion of the Transcontinental
Railroad on May 10, 1869.
The Census Bureau estimates that
there are more than 20 million Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders cur-
rently residing in the United States,
and by many accounts, they represent
one of the fastest growing minority
groups. Almost 7 percent of Maryland-
ers, more than 400,000 people, identify
as Asian American and Pacific Is-
lander. Particularly in the counties
surrounding Washington DC, Maryland
has increasingly become home to com-
munities of Chinese, Taiwanese, Ko-
rean, Filipino, Vietnamese, and Indian
Americans. Over the years, they have
contributed substantially to making
Maryland a thriving State recognized
for its leadership in business, edu-
cation, culture, and many other fields.
Asian Pacific Americans have been and
always will be an integral part of our
community.
Archeological evidence indicates that
humans first began to settle in the Pa-
cific Islands, including those of Hawaii,
Samoa, and Guam, which would later
become part of the United States,
thousands of years ago. In what was
one of the first crossings of the Pacific
Ocean from Asia to the Americas, Fili-
pinos were aboard a Spanish galleon
that landed in California in 1587. In the
17th century, the British East India
Company brought the first South Asian
Indians to the country as indentured
servants. In time, the Colonies and,
later, the United States would see con-
tinued influxes of immigrants from
Asia and the Pacific, in addition to the
arrival of the first men and women
coming from China, Korea, and Japan
in the 19th century. Many came as con-
tract labor for plantations, factories,
and, famously, the California Gold
Rush and the Transcontinental Rail-
road. In the 20th century, immigration
reforms coincided with the Cold War
and a new wave of globalization to spur
an unprecedented boom in arrivals
from these countries and elsewhere in
the region. As these populations con-
tinue to grow, it is crucial to recognize
that Asian Pacific Americans have
been in the United States for centuries.
Their stories are a testament to how
our Nation is one of immigrants that is
made stronger, not weaker, through its
diversity.
Today, many of the iconic buildings
we take for granted originate in the
work of Asian Americans and Pacific
Islanders. Here in Washington DC,
many might walk beside the majestic
East Building of the National Gallery
of Art without recognizing it to be the
work of the famous architect, I. M. Pei,
who passed away on May 16, 2019, at the
venerable age of 102. Beginning with
the Mesa Laboratory for the National
Center for Atmospheric Research in
Colorado, Pei built a distinguished ca-
reer over several decades as an eager
and ground-breaking artist. In addition
to these buildings, Pei would also de-
sign the John F. Kennedy Presidential
Library and Museum in Massachusetts,
the Dallas City Hall, and countless
other projects here and abroad, such as
the Louvre Pyramid in Paris, France.
Throughout their history, Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders have
been and continue to be leaders. In-
deed, one of the best demonstrations of
this is the pivotal role Asian Ameri-
cans and Pacific Islanders played in the
Civil Rights era. Contemporaneous
with the movements of the 1950s and
1960s, numerous Asian American and
Pacific Islander activists and organiza-
tions advocated for the equality of all
races and social and economic justice.
In 1969, it was Yuji Ichioka who first
coined the term ‘‘Asian American’’ and
later taught the first course on Asian
American Studies at the University of
California, Los Angeles, in addition to
founding the major advocacy group,
the Asian American Political Alliance.
Larry Itliong was a major figure in the
American labor movement when he
helped organize agricultural workers in
the western United States to form the
Agricultural Workers Organizing Com-
mittee, which would later merge with
Cesar Chavez’s organization to create
the United Farm Workers.
Asian Americans and Pacific Island-
ers have committed themselves to
serving their communities and the
United States. For centuries, Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders have
participated in almost every war the
United States has fought. Although
often serving in segregated units, these
men and women enthusiastically
fought for what had long been their
country, serving as early as the War of
1812. In recent years, Asian American
and Pacific Islander soldiers and sup-
port personnel have proved essential in
the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Their
sacrifices have been great; we should
never forget them. For that reason, the
President of the United States has
awarded the Medal of Honor to numer-
ous brave Asian American and Pacific
Islander warriors.
Many also have gone on to serve as
dedicated public servants. Asian Amer-
icans and Pacific Islanders have held
elected offices at the local, State, and
national levels for over a century.
Leaders such as Senator Hiram Fong
and Senator Daniel Akaka made his-
tory when they became the first Asian
American and Native Hawaiian, respec-
tively, to serve in the U.S. Senate. I
was honored to serve alongside Senator
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.032 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3099
May 23, 2019
Daniel Inouye, who became the highest
ranking Asian-American politician in
our Nation’s history when he became
the President pro tempore of the Sen-
ate. Beyond elected office, Asian Amer-
icans and Pacific Islanders constitute
an indispensable portion of the civil
service at all levels of government.
There, too, they have clearly dem-
onstrated the commitment they have
to their community.
In addition to the many contribu-
tions made by individuals, Asian Amer-
icans and Pacific Islanders have also
imprinted onto our society the marks
of distinctive cultures. Though perhaps
taken for granted today, many ubiq-
uitous aspects of American life and
identity ultimately derive from the
men and women who brought pieces of
their home countries with them when
they came to the United States. From
philosophy to religion and entertain-
ment to cuisine, Asian and Pacific Is-
lander cultures have helped influence
and form the American way of life as
we know it today.
As minorities, many Asian Ameri-
cans and Pacific Islanders have en-
dured persistent forms of systemic rac-
ism that still have yet to be eradi-
cated. Historically, countless individ-
uals were denied the same rights as
other Americans and were even ex-
cluded from citizenship. Laws barred
many from working in certain fields
and codified school segregation and
prohibitions on property and business
ownership. Immigration itself became
a target of exclusionary policies that
prohibited immigrants of certain
ethnicities from coming to the United
States. Widespread xenophobia, cap-
tured best by the ‘‘Yellow Peril,’’ dehu-
manized entire communities and in-
stilled prejudice in the hearts of many
Americans. This discrimination
reached a peak when President Roo-
sevelt ordered the incarceration of over
100,000 Japanese Americans in intern-
ment camps as war began with the Em-
pire of Japan in World War II.
Although we have made much
progress in recent decades, we still face
persistent issues of xenophobia, under-
representation, and discrimination. Op-
portunities such as Asian Pacific
American Heritage Month allow us to
educate all Americans and spread the
stories and perspectives unique to this
community. We must do all that we
can to bridge the divide by supporting
policies and ideas of acceptance and
equality. There is still much work to
be done, but with the effort of all of
our community acting together, I be-
lieve we can reach our goal.
Asian Americans and Pacific Island-
ers represent more than just a demo-
graphic category. They are our neigh-
bors and coworkers, our friends and
family. They are small business owners
and entrepreneurs who have helped
transform our economy for the better.
They are prize-winning scientists and
researchers who have made countless
discoveries that have advanced our
knowledge. They are creative artists
and performers who have captured our
emotions and introduced us to innova-
tive concepts. In short, Asian Ameri-
cans and Pacific Islanders represent an
essential pillar of the United States.
Their story in this country reaches
back to its very founding, and it will
only continue to shine on for the entire
world to see, for they are, above all,
Americans.
f
TRIBUTE TO THOMAS O’LOUGHLIN
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President,
each Memorial Day we, as Americans,
take time to honor the heroes who
gave their lives in service to our coun-
try, from those who died in the cre-
ation of this great Nation to those who
today risk their lives in the most dan-
gerous corners of the world.
As we approach this Memorial Day, I
want to take a moment to honor the
heroes still among us who served in the
Second World War. There are fewer
than half a million of these veterans
still living, and we lose more than 300
every day.
These men and women of the World
War II era are truly heroes here among
us. In the great battle between good
and evil, these heroes advanced over
rough terrain against bombs and bul-
lets and tanks.
Today, their battle is against the un-
relenting march of time and the ines-
capable effects of aging. For these vet-
erans, whose valor many of us only
know from history books or movies, we
still have the opportunity and sacred
duty to express our gratitude, so we
honor them as we aspire to be greater
than we are. If we desire to serve more
than ourselves, we must honor them.
On this Memorial Day, I take time to
draw special attention to one of these
heroes, who is now hospitalized in Mis-
sissippi.
Ninety-four years ago, Thomas
O’Loughlin was born in an Irish-Catho-
lic community in New Jersey. When his
country called him to war, Tom re-
sponded and made his first trip to Mis-
sissippi, courtesy of the U.S. Army, for
training at Camp Shelby. He deployed
to the European Theater where, in Jan-
uary 1944, he was captured by the Axis
forces and held as prisoner of war for
more than a year before liberation.
Following the war, Tom served as a
guard during the Nuremberg Trials of
Nazi war criminals. One of the pris-
oners in his charge was Deputy Fuhrer
Rudolf Hess.
Following the Nuremberg Trials,
Tom continued serving his country in
the Armed Forces, once again serving
in combat with the 811th Engineer
Aviation Battalion assigned to the
Fifth Air Force in Korea. He returned
to civilian life in 1952, eventually mak-
ing his way back to Mississippi. Keep-
ing his Jersey accent and Irish sparkle,
Tom made Mississippi his home and
married Rachel Pitts, a Southern belle.
They settled down in Laurel, MS, and
like many members of the Greatest
Generation, Tom dedicated himself to
serving his community as a sponsor for
those facing addiction. Even now, he
calls from his hospital bed to encour-
age sobriety and offer support to those
who still turn to him for help.
To honor Tom O’Loughlin, I had a
U.S. flag flown over the U.S. Capitol. I
pray his health returns, and I ask we
all offer prayers of gratitude for Tom
and the other World War II veterans
across our country, for they truly are
heroes here among us.
f
TRIBUTE TO SHIRLEY
ABRAHAMSON
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, today
I wish to recognize the remarkable ca-
reer and legacy of Justice Shirley
Abrahamson as she retires from the
Wisconsin Supreme Court. Justice
Abrahamson has a long and distin-
guished career upholding the law on
Wisconsin’s highest court. Her unparal-
leled commitment to justice has pro-
moted a fair and impartial judicial sys-
tem while greatly contributing to the
promotion of equal rights in Wisconsin.
Justice Abraham’s exceptional career
had modest beginnings in New York
City. Her parents were Polish immi-
grants who started a grocery store in
Manhattan. Her passion for the law
started at the tender age of 6, when she
decided she wanted to become a lawyer.
She was a dedicated student, earning
honors in high school and college.
Justice Abrahamson graduated
magna cum laude with bachelor’s de-
gree from New York University in 1953.
She earned a law degree with high dis-
tinction from Indiana University in
1956 and a doctor of law in American
legal history from the University of
Wisconsin Law School in 1962. Before
her appointment to the Wisconsin Su-
preme Court, Justice Abrahamson
practiced law in the private sector for
14 years and was a distinguished pro-
fessor at the University of Wisconsin
Law School.
In 1976, Shirley Abrahamson broke
the glass ceiling in Wisconsin’s judicial
system by becoming the first female
justice on the Wisconsin Supreme
Court. She again made history in 1996
when she became the first woman to
serve as chief justice. After winning
four elections and serving a total of 42
years, Justice Abrahamson is now the
longest serving supreme court justice
in State history.
Though her career is punctuated by
countless achievements and distinc-
tions, Justice Abrahamson’s path to
success was anything but easy. Despite
a multitude of academic distinctions
and an unprecedented affinity for the
law, Justice Abrahamson was met with
a demoralizing wave of sexism when
she entered the legal profession in the
1950s. The dean of the Indiana Univer-
sity Law School traditionally placed
the top student from each graduating
class at the largest law firm in Indian-
apolis; yet after graduating first in her
class from the university in 1956, the
dean told Justice Abrahamson he could
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:25 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.059 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3100 May 23, 2019
not place her at the firm because they
just were not going to hire a woman.
Rather than feeling disheartened, Jus-
tice Abrahamson informed the dean
that she didn’t want to go to Indianap-
olis, so the slight was fine with her.
This type of discrimination was not
an anomaly. Justice Abrahamson was
denied jobs, clients, and even social
club memberships on the basis of her
gender. Undaunted by this prejudice,
Justice Abrahamson took a stand
against gender inequality and refused
to back down from those who stood in
the way of a woman’s path to success
in the legal field. Her greatest legacy is
the trail she blazed for countless young
women, who can see themselves in a
courtroom or on a judicial bench be-
cause of the barriers she fearlessly
broke through. She will go down in his-
tory as one of Wisconsin’s most influ-
ential and powerful women, and she
used every bit of that influence and
power in the pursuit of justice for all
Wisconsinites.
Justice Abrahamson is a true Amer-
ican hero. From her incomparable ten-
ure on the Wisconsin Supreme Court to
her efforts as a pioneer for gender
equality, Justice Abrahamson has lived
a life devoted to service and justice for
all.
f
TRIBUTE TO PAUL SOGLIN
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, today
I wish to recognize the exceptional ca-
reer and legacy of Madison, WI’s long-
est serving Mayor, Paul Soglin. Mayor
Soglin spent his many years in office
as driving force behind Madison’s ex-
traordinary economic success and high
quality of life.
Paul Soglin was raised in the Hyde
Park neighborhood of Chicago, where
he excelled academically at Highland
Park High School. He graduated with
honors from University of Wisconsin—
Madison in 1966 and from the UW-Madi-
son Law School in 1972.
Soglin gained national notoriety on
campus as an activist for social and po-
litical change. He frequently protested
American military involvement in the
Vietnam war and demonstrated against
Dow Chemical Company for its role in
manufacturing napalm and Agent Or-
ange for use in Vietnam. Beaten by po-
lice during the protests, Soglin became
a respected voice on campus. During
this trying time in our Nation’s past,
Soglin demonstrated his enduring com-
mitment to peace and civil rights.
Soglin won election to the Madison
City Council in 1968, representing the
city’s student wards. Four years later,
he accomplished one of the biggest up-
sets in Madison history by defeating
two-term incumbent William Dyke, be-
coming the youngest mayor in the
city’s history. During his first term as
mayor, he established Madison’s Civic
Center to showcase the city’s growing
arts scene. He made tremendous im-
provements to the city’s public transit
system and transformed State Street
into an iconic pedestrian mall, one of
Madison’s defining landmarks.
After leaving public office to teach at
Harvard in 1979, Soglin returned to
Madison to practice law and was twice
reelected to lead Wisconsin’s capital
city. In all, he served as Madison’s 51st,
54th, and 57th mayor. During his sec-
ond stint as mayor, Soglin accom-
plished one of his crowning achieve-
ments, breaking through a 70-year de-
bate to build the Monona Terrace Con-
vention Center that Frank Lloyd
Wright designed for Madison’s Lake
Monona’s shoreline. He is also credited
with invigorating Madison’s economy
and rebuilding its declining downtown.
Through his more than two decades
of investment in infrastructure, the
arts, and recreation, Paul Soglin has
helped build a welcoming and flour-
ishing city that appears often on lists
of the Nation’s most livable cities.
Throughout this growth, he has also
fought to ensure that Madison’s re-
sources and assets are available to all
city residents, regardless of their eco-
nomic standing.
In addition to Paul Soglin’s remark-
able public service, I feel fortunate to
know him as a lifelong family friend.
From my earliest memories of Paul
teaching me how to throw a Frisbee to
his generous moving reflections at my
mother’s memorial service, Paul
Soglin has provided me with encour-
agement and inspiration.
As he begins his next chapter after 22
years of service, he leaves with the
knowledge that he has left an indelible
mark on the city he loves and that his
legacy will endure.
f
102ND ANNIVERSARY OF
EMMANUEL BAPTIST CHURCH
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, today
I wish to recognize the 102nd anniver-
sary of Emmanuel Baptist Church in
Beloit, WI. Emmanuel Baptist Church
was established on April 15, 1917, and
has been a pillar of the community for
the last 102 years.
The church was founded during the
peak of the Great Northward Migra-
tion, when more than 6 million African
Americans migrated from the rural
South to the industrial cities of the
North and Midwest. Many northern
manufacturing plants sought African-
American migrants from the South to
help replace white workers fighting in
World War I. Beloit became a favored
destination for many migrants thanks
in part to a young African-American
named John McCord from Pontotoc,
MS, who helped the Fairbanks Morse
manufacturing company in Beloit re-
cruit Black labor from the southern
town.
African Americans were eager to es-
cape the Jim Crow laws of the South
and seek an improved quality of life for
their families. As they settled in an un-
familiar part of the country, they
sought solace in their faith and estab-
lished the Second Emmanuel Baptist
Church, now Emmanuel Baptist
Church. The church held its first serv-
ice at Kent Hall on State Street on
April 15, 1917, for a small group of Afri-
can Americans, all of whom worked at
Fairbanks Morse. As their families
grew and the Great Migration contin-
ued, the once small church quickly
grew to a congregation of 100 by 1920.
On June 3, 1927, formal incorporation
papers were filed with the Rock County
Registrar.
The first church at the current loca-
tion was built in 1924 for $5,500. The ed-
ifice of the present church was built in
1960 after the first building was de-
stroyed by fire in 1958. Today, Emman-
uel Baptist church proudly offers wor-
ship and educational programs for its
members and provides community out-
reach programs through its Family
Life Center. Two of its most successful
endeavors, a food pantry and a free hot
lunch program, began under the leader-
ship of the late Rev. Dr. Floyd Prude,
Jr., who served as senior pastor for 36
years, the longest in the church’s his-
tory.
Now, 102 years after its founding,
Emmanuel Baptist Church provides a
spiritual refuge for its 350 members
under the steady hand of Minister Rod-
ney Hayes. It stands as a beacon of
hope that has withstood the dev-
astating impacts of racism and perse-
cution. Under the devoted guidance of
its spiritual leaders, may it continue to
be a shining asset to the community
for the next 102 years.
f
TRIBUTE TO THE ALEXANDER
FAMILY
Mr. ROMNEY. Mr. President, it is my
honor today to pay tribute to five na-
tive Utahns who are brothers and vet-
erans of World War II and Korea: Wil-
liam, Gail, George, Jack, and Bert
Alexander.
These five brothers answered the call
to defend our freedom and the freedoms
of others from foreign invaders. Nazi
Germany, Imperial Japan, and the
North Koreans believed it their right
to attack and forcefully restrict the
freedoms of their neighbors, but these
brothers recognized that our freedom
as American citizens is inextricably
linked to the freedom of our friends
and allies. Remaining safely protected
in Northern Utah was not an option for
the Alexander brothers; they answered
the call to take up arms and defend
freedom’s cause.
One brother, SGT Gail Alexander,
was killed in action exactly 75 years
ago tomorrow, May 24, 1944, during the
Anzio campaign to retake Rome, Italy.
The Anzio campaign and then Oper-
ation Neptune—or D-day, as it came to
be known—marked an important turn-
ing point in World War II, with the Al-
lies beginning to liberate and retake
German-occupied Europe, restoring
freedom to the French and Italians and
subsequently to the rest of Europe.
Prior to his death, Gail received a
Purple Heart and Silver Star citation
for Gallantry when on February 4, 1944,
after sustaining a gunshot injury to his
hand, he singlehandedly took out a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.051 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3101
May 23, 2019
German machine gun position that had
held up his entire company. Alone and
the his company under fire, Gail gradu-
ally ran 130 yards across the battle-
field, machine guns kicking up dirt on
both sides of him and artillery shells
falling all around. He made it to the
machine gun position, knocking it out
with grenades, allowing his company to
come out from under cover.
In the official military report of the
incident, Gail’s commanding officer
said, ‘‘Sergeant Alexander’s fearless ac-
tion under direct machine gun fire for
twenty minutes, enabled our company
to obtain the objective . . . and pre-
vented any further casualties to our
own men.’’
Gail’s brothers William, George, and
Jack all returned home after serving in
various capacities more than 2 years
each all throughout the European the-
ater. The youngest brother, Bert Alex-
ander, who just passed away on April 2
of this year at the age of 87, was too
young to serve in World War II but still
answered the call to defend liberty
when he embarked for service in Korea.
So today I, along with the entire U.S.
Senate, honor these five brothers, their
Gold Star mother, and their families,
both living and deceased. We remember
their tremendous service and sacrifice,
and we express our profound gratitude
for their sacrifice in defending freedom
for us and for America’s allies.
f
AVIATION MAINTENANCE
TECHNICIAN DAY
Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, in
1902, a little known machinist by the
name of Charles Edward Taylor began
working for Orville and Wilbur Wright
at the Wright Cycle Company in Day-
ton, OH. Over the course of 6 weeks,
using only a metal lathe, drill press,
and hand tools, Mr. Taylor built a 12-
horsepower engine that was used to
power the Wright brothers’ first suc-
cessful aircraft in 1903.
Today, Charles Taylor’s May 24th
birthday is observed as Aviation Main-
tenance Technician Day to recognize
the thousands of men and women who
follow in Mr. Taylor’s footsteps and
fulfill a critical safety role in the U.S.
aviation industry. Whether maintain-
ing military, commercial, general avia-
tion, private, space, or experimental
aircraft, aviation maintenance techni-
cians use their specialized knowledge
and skillset to ensure that all aircraft
are safe and reliable.
I want to thank aviation mainte-
nance technicians across Illinois and
throughout the Nation for their hard
work and dedication. Their expertise
and integrity ensures the U.S. aviation
system will remain the safest and most
reliable in the world.
f
TRIBUTE TO DR. WILLIAM MEDD
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, access
to quality healthcare is the foundation
of any community. Throughout his
long and distinguished career at Ste-
phens Memorial Hospital in Norway,
ME, Dr. William Medd has helped to
build that foundation in Oxford Coun-
ty. It is a pleasure to join his friends
and neighbors in thanking him for 45
years of expert, dedicated, and compas-
sionate service.
Healthcare is essential to the vital-
ity, even the survival, of rural commu-
nities. In a recent interview, Dr. Medd
said that, after he graduated from the
University of Rochester Medical
School, he had a wide choice of places
to practice. He decided to practice in a
place where he could make a real dif-
ference, and he certainly has. His role
in starting the Maine Track program
through Maine Medical Center and the
Tufts University School of Medicine to
recruit young physicians to rural prac-
tice will make a difference for genera-
tions to come.
When a new medical center opened in
Norway 3 years ago, it was named in
Dr. Medd’s honor as a tribute to his
many contributions to his community.
Just as important is the gratitude the
people throughout the Oxford Hills re-
gion have for his outstanding atten-
tiveness to their health and well-being.
I offer Dr. William Medd my congratu-
lations upon his retirement and best
wishes for the years to come.
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE CODY
STAMPEDE RODEO
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, this year,
the Cody Stampede Rodeo is cele-
brating its 100th anniversary. This is a
milestone for the Stampede, for Cody,
and for Wyoming. One hundred years of
the Cody Stampede Rodeo represents
100 years of us living life the cowboy
way. The cowboy and the rodeo is an
integral part of our culture, and this
100th anniversary is a chance to cele-
brate this long standing history.
The rodeo has long been a part of Wy-
oming history. Wyoming is often re-
ferred to as the Cowboy State as a ref-
erence to its cowboy culture. At the
heart of cowboy culture lies the rodeo.
We hold rodeos all over the State in al-
most every single town.
Rodeo is in some ways the West’s am-
bassador to the world. With our buck-
ing horse license plate and visitors’
conceptions of the Wild West, cowboys
and rodeo are what they see and expect
to see first. Through the efforts of all
who participate, the sport of rodeo con-
tinues to grow. It is a part of western
tradition that can be shared and en-
joyed by visitors and residents alike.
The rodeo is a part of our livelihood
that is unique to the Cowboy State and
the West. The relationship between the
rodeo and the West is much like the re-
lationship between a cowboy and his
horse. Few pairings have produced a
more perfect partnership and the image
of a cowboy and his horse remains an
American icon. When one imagines a
cowboy, he is rarely without his horse
companion.
The American cowboy represents the
greatest parts of the American West:
our courage, honor, and hard work
ethic. The cowboy way provides an eth-
ical code for cowboys to live by. All
rodeo participants embody this cowboy
way when competing in the arena, pro-
viding the world with a prime example
of the code all Wyomingites live by.
Cody is nicknamed the Rodeo Capitol
of the World. Rodeo in Cody began over
100 years ago with William Frederick
‘‘Buffalo Bill’’ Cody and his Wild West
Show. The Wild West Show was never
formally held in Cody but the tryouts
for the show were held right behind the
Irma Hotel. In 1913, Buffalo Bill closed
his Wild West Show. He hosted one last
parade and rodeo in Cody for the prince
of Monaco.
In 1917, Buffalo Bill passed away and
with that ended a fascinating chapter
in the story of the American Wild
West. In 1919, Clarence Williams led the
effort to establish a rodeo celebration
in Cody to commemorate Buffalo Bill
and the Old West he personified. Every
summer since 1919, people from all over
come to watch cowboys compete in the
Cody Stampede Rodeo, as well as the
rodeos held every night from June to
Labor Day.
For its centennial year, the Cody
Stampede Board is being inducted into
the Professional Rodeo Cowboy Hall of
Fame. This is a great accomplishment
for the town and the Stampede.
Caroline Lockhart was the founder
and first president of the Cody Stam-
pede Board. Caroline was considered a
liberated, independent women ahead of
her time. She was described as someone
‘‘with a spirit as wild as the West.’’
Last November, she was inducted into
the Cowgirl Hall of Fame. As we ap-
proach the 100th anniversary of the
19th Amendment, which granted
women the right to vote across the
country, it is important to recognize
Wyoming’s history of women leaders,
like Caroline. Caroline Lockhart is a
great example of the trailblazer nature
of our great State.
As a trailblazer State, women in Wy-
oming were voting long before the 19th
Amendment was passed. Wyoming is
coming up on the 150th anniversary of
women’s suffrage. In December 1869,
Wyoming’s territorial legislature be-
came the first government in the world
to grant women the right to vote.
Called the Equality State, we have the
distinction of having the first woman
to serve as Governor and the first
woman to vote in the world. Rodeo ex-
emplifies the nature of the Equality
State through its history of inclusion
and acceptance.
There are many great sports, but
there are probably none as demanding
or difficult as Rodeo. That is why it
continues to grow in popularity and
participation. It requires a tremendous
combination of athletic ability, con-
centration, and dedication from its
participants. It takes a lot of courage
to face the challenges of the sport and
give it your very best.
Rodeo also does a lot to build char-
acter and increase the self-confidence
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.035 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3102 May 23, 2019
of those who participate in the sport.
Best of all, it is something the whole
family can take part in, either in the
arena or in the stands, cheering family
and friends on to victory.
The hard work of those who compete
in rodeos represents the ‘‘can do’’ spirit
of the West. It is great to see the entire
community come together year after
year as volunteers, participants, and
fans for the Cody Stampede Rodeo.
Again, I congratulate Cody on their
100th anniversary of the Cody Stam-
pede Rodeo and wish the best for an-
other 100 years of doing things the
Cowboy way.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO WOODS EASTLAND
∑ Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
am pleased to commend Woods East-
land of Indianola, MS, for his service
and contributions while serving as the
83rd president of Delta Council.
Founded in 1935, Delta Council is a
widely respected economic develop-
ment organization representing busi-
ness, professional, and agricultural
leaders in the Delta region of Mis-
sissippi. I commend the Delta Council
for its continuing role in improving the
quality of life in this unique part of our
Country.
Woods Eastland’s tenure as Delta
Council president began in June 2018.
Under Mr. Eastland’s leadership, the
Delta region has benefitted from his
extensive experience in farm policy,
water resource issues, and economic
and community development, among
other major issues that Delta Council
addresses.
Mr. Eastland graduated from Vander-
bilt University and earned a juris doc-
torate from the University of Mis-
sissippi. A Navy veteran, Eastland
began farming following his military
service. He was also CEO of StaplCotn
for over 24 years, where he led the larg-
est cotton marketing firm in the
United States, headquartered in Green-
wood, MS. Upon his retirement, he be-
came Chairman of the Board for an-
other 8 years. In addition to Delta
Council, Eastland serves his church,
community, and Delta region through
numerous leadership roles.
I am pleased to offer congratulations
to Woods Eastland and to share this
appreciation with his wife Lynn, their
two children, and grandchildren, at the
time of the 84th annual meeting of the
membership of Delta Council in June.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
and a withdrawal which were referred
to the appropriate committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate
proceedings.)
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:18 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1500. An act to require the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau to meet its
statutory purpose, and for other purposes.
The message further announced that
the House has agreed to the following
concurrent resolutions, without
amendment:
S. Con. Res. 6. Concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the printing of a commemorative
document in memory of the late President of
the United States, George Herbert Walker
Bush.
S. Con. Res. 14. Concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the use of Emancipation Hall in
the Capitol Visitor Center for an event to
celebrate the birthday of King Kamehameha
I.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bill was read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 1500. An act to require the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau to meet its
statutory purpose, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
f
MEASURES DISCHARGED
The following bill was discharged
from the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources, and referred to the
Committee on Indian Affairs:
S. 886. A bill to amend the Omnibus Public
Land Management Act of 2009 to make the
Reclamation Water Settlements Fund per-
manent.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1361. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director, Senior Executive Management
Office, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, four (4) reports relative to
vacancies in the Department of Defense, re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on May 22, 2019; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–1362. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Export Administration,
Bureau of Industry and Security, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Addi-
tion of Certain Entities to the Entity List,
Revision of an Entry on the Entity List, and
Removal of an Entity from the Entity List’’
(RIN0694–AH72) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–1363. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Office of Chief
Financial Officer, Nuclear Regulatory Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revision of Fee
Schedules, Fee Recovery for Fiscal Year
2019’’ ((RIN3150–AJ99) (NRC–2017–0032)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on May 22, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–1364. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Modern-
izing Part D and Medicare Advantage to
Lower Drug Prices and Reduce Out of Pocket
Expenses’’ (RIN0938–AT92) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on May 22,
2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–1365. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to Congress on
Public Law 108–235: United States Support
for Taiwan’s Participation as an Observer at
the 72nd World Health Assembly and in the
Work of the World Health Organization’’; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–1366. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report relative to Data Mining Activ-
ity in the Department of State for calendar
year 2018; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
EC–1367. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report relative to the status of the
Government of Cuba’s compliance with the
United States-Cuba September 1994 ‘‘Joint
Communique,’’ and on the treatment of per-
sons returned to Cuba in accordance with the
United States-Cuba May 1995 ‘‘Joint State-
ment,’’ and the United States-Cuba January
2017 ‘‘Joint Statement’’; to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
EC–1368. A communication from the Prin-
cipal Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Of-
fice of Legislative Affairs, Department of
Justice, transmitting, a report relative to
the views of the Department on H.R. 9, the
‘‘Climate Action Now Act’’; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
EC–1369. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report relative to a
fiscal year 2020 estimate for the Volunteers
at Federally Supported Health Centers As-
sistant Act; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–1370. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report relative to a
fiscal year 2020 estimate for the Free Clinic
Program; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–1371. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant General Counsel for Regu-
latory Affairs, Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Benefits Pay-
able in Terminated Single-Employer Plans;
Interest Assumptions for Paying Benefits’’
(29 CFR Part 4022) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on May 22, 2019;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–1372. A communication from the Dis-
trict of Columbia Auditor, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report entitled, ‘‘Certifi-
cation of Fiscal Year 2019 Total Local Source
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.074 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3103
May 23, 2019
General Fund Revenue Estimate (Net of
Dedicated Taxes) in Support of the District’s
Issuance of Income Tax Secured Revenue
Bond Anticipation Notes, (Series 2019A)’’; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–1373. A communication from the Fed-
eral Co-Chair, Appalachian Regional Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Commission’s Semiannual Report of the In-
spector General for the period from October
1, 2018 through March 31, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–1374. A communication from the Dep-
uty Archivist of the United States, National
Archives and Records Administration, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Electronic Records Management’’
((RIN3095–AB98) (36 CFR 1236)) received in
the Office of the President Pro Tempore of
the Senate; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–1375. A communication from the Solic-
itor General, Department of Justice, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the decision not to appeal the orders of the
United States District Court for the Western
District of Washington holding that a De-
partment of Defense (DoD) policy affecting
military service by certain former aliens is
unconstitutional; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
EC–1376. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the Department’s activities under the Civil
Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act dur-
ing fiscal year 2018; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
EC–1377. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Law
Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness
Act: Report to Congress’’; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
EC–1378. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Law
Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness
Programs: Eleven Case Studies’’; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
EC–1379. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Office of Proceedings, Surface
Transportation Board, Department of Trans-
portation, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Water Carrier Tar-
iff Filing Procedures’’ ((RIN2140–AB43)
(Docket No. EP 743)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on May 22, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1380. A communication from the Attor-
ney Adviser, Federal Railroad Administra-
tion, Department of Transportation, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Moving the Federal Railroad Ad-
ministration (FRA) Civil Penalties Sched-
ules and Guidelines from the Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR) to the FRA Website’’
(RIN2130–AC63) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1381. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Standardized Bycatch Reporting Method-
ology’’ (RIN0648–BF51) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on May 22,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1382. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Temporary Rule To Establish Management
Measures for the Limited Harvest and Pos-
session of South Atlantic Red Snapper in
2017’’ (RIN0648–BH10) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on May 22, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1383. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Atlantic Highly Migratory Species; Indi-
vidual Bluefin Quota Program; Inseason
Transfers; Correction’’ (RIN0648–BG09) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on May 22, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1384. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Atlantic Highly Migratory Species; Adjust-
ments to the 2017 Northern Albacore Tuna
Quota, 2017 North and South Atlantic Sword-
fish Quotas, and 2017 Atlantic Bluefin Tuna
Reserve Category Quota’’ (RIN0648–XF480)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on May 22, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1385. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Pacific Island Fisheries; 2016 Annual Catch
Limits and Accountability Measures’’
(RIN0648–XE587) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1386. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Pacific Island Fisheries; 2017 Annual Catch
Limits and Accountability Measures’’
(RIN0648–XF186) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1387. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Pacific Island Fisheries; 2016–17 Annual
Catch Limit and Accountability Measures;
Main Hawaiian Islands Deep 7 Bottomfish’’
(RIN0648–XE809) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1388. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Pacific Island Fisheries; 2017–18 Annual
Catch Limit and Accountability Measures;
Main Hawaiian Islands Deep 7 Bottomfish’’
(RIN0648–XF335) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1389. A communication from the Acting
Director, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Pacific Island Pelagic Fisheries; 2017 U.S.
Territorial Longline Bigeye Tuna Catch
Limits for the Territory of American
Samoa’’ (RIN0648–XF156) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on May 22,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1390. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Gulf of Alaska; Final 2017 and
2018 Harvest Specifications for Groundfish’’
(RIN0648–XE904) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1391. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands;
2017 and 2018 Harvest Specifications for
Groundfish’’ (RIN0648–XE989) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on May
22, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1392. A communication from the Acting
Deputy Assistant Administrator for Regu-
latory Programs, National Marine Fisheries
Service, Department of Commerce, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Magnuson-Stevens Act Provisions;
Fisheries Off West Coast States; Pacific
Coast Groundfish Fishery; Widow Rockfish
Reallocation in the Individual Fishing Quota
Fishery’’ (RIN0648–BF12) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on May 22,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1393. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Magnuson-Stevens Act Provisions; Fish-
eries Off West Coast States; Pacific Coast
Groundfish Fishery; Pacific Whiting; Pacific
Coast Groundfish Fishery Management Plan;
Amendment 21–3; Trawl Rationalization Pro-
gram’’ (RIN0648–BG98) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on May 22,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1394. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries Off West Coast States; Coastal
Pelagic Species Fisheries; Amendment to
Regulations Implementing the Coastal Pe-
lagic Species Fishery Management Plan;
Change to Pacific Mackerel Management
Cycle From Annual to Biennial’’ (RIN0648–
BF96) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1395. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
and South Atlantic; Shrimp Fishery of the
Gulf of Mexico; Amendment 17B’’ (RIN0648–
BG82) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1396. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.047 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3104 May 23, 2019
and South Atlantic; Snapper-Grouper Fish-
ery of the South Atlantic Region; Amend-
ment 36’’ (RIN0648–BG38) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on May 22,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1397. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
and South Atlantic; Coastal Migratory Pe-
lagic Resources in the Gulf of Mexico and At-
lantic Region; Framework Amendment 4’’
(RIN0648–BG43) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1398. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Mid-Atlantic Unmanaged Forage
Omnibus Amendment’’ (RIN0648–BG42) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on May 22, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1399. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Golden Tilefish Fishery; 2018 and
Projected 2019–2020 Specifications’’ (RIN0648–
XF571) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1400. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Revisions to Framework Adjustment 56 to
the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Manage-
ment Plan’’ (RIN0648–XF710) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on May
22, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1401. A communication from the Acting
Deputy Assistant Administrator for Regu-
latory Programs, National Marine Fisheries
Service, Department of Commerce, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Black Sea Bass Fishery; Revised 2017
and Projected 2018 Specifications’’ (RIN0648–
XF300) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1402. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Monkfish; Framework Adjustment
10’’ (RIN0648–BG48) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on May 22, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1403. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Summer Flounder, Scup, Black Sea
Bass Fisheries; 2018 and Projected 2019 Scup
Specifications and Announcement of Final
2018 Summer Flounder and Black Sea Bass
Specifications’’ (RIN0648–XF669) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
May 22, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1404. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Magnuson-Stevens Act Provisions; Fish-
eries of the Northeastern United States;
Northeast Multispecies Fishery; Disapproval
of Northeast Fishery Sector IX Operational
Plan’’ (RIN0648–XF138) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on May 22,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1405. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation
and Management Act Provisions; Fisheries
of the Northeastern United States; North-
east Groundfish Fishery; Fishing Year 2017;
Emergency Removal of Southern Window-
pane Accountability Measures’’ (RIN0648–
BH11) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on May 22, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. SHELBY, from the Committee on
Appropriations:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Further Revised
Allocation to Subcommittees of Budget To-
tals for Fiscal Year 2019’’ (Rept. No. 116–42).
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, without amendment and
with an amended preamble:
S. Res. 135. A resolution expressing the
gratitude and appreciation of the Senate for
the acts of heroism and valor by the mem-
bers of the United States Armed Forces who
participated in the June 6, 1944, amphibious
landing at Normandy, France, and com-
mending those individuals for leadership and
bravery in an operation that helped bring an
end to World War II.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. GRASSLEY for the Committee on
Finance.
*David Fabian Black, of North Dakota, to
be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security
for a term expiring January 19, 2025.
*Emin Toro, of Virginia, to be a Judge of
the United States Tax Court for a term of fif-
teen years.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. PORTMAN, and Mr.
CASEY):
S. 1627. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend and modify the
section 45 credit for refined coal from steel
industry fuel, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself, Mr.
KING, and Ms. COLLINS):
S. 1628. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the employer
credit for paid family and medical leave, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. HAWLEY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Mr. MARKEY):
S. 1629. A bill to regulate certain pay-to-
win microtransactions and sales of loot
boxes in interactive digital entertainment
products, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. MENENDEZ:
S. 1630. A bill to amend the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 to require shareholder
authorization before a public company may
make certain political expenditures, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 1631. A bill to establish criminal pen-
alties for aliens who fail to depart before the
expiration of their visas; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 1632. A bill to terminate the Diversity
Immigrant Visa Program; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. COR-
NYN, and Mr. BARRASSO):
S. 1633. A bill to amend the National Labor
Relations Act to permit employers to pay
higher wages to their employees; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. COTTON, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
HAWLEY, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. SCOTT
of Florida, Mr. MANCHIN, Mrs. BLACK-
BURN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. CORNYN,
Mr. JONES, and Mr. ROMNEY):
S. 1634. A bill to impose sanctions with re-
spect to the People’s Republic of China in re-
lation to activities in the South China Sea
and the East China Sea, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr. COR-
NYN):
S. 1635. A bill to designate the community-
based outpatient clinic of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in Odessa, Texas, as the
‘‘Wilson and Young Medal of Honor VA Clin-
ic’’; to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself, Ms.
SMITH, and Mr. CASSIDY):
S. 1636. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the
scope of new chemical exclusivity; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. KAINE, Mr. WARNER, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. MERKLEY,
and Mr. BROWN):
S. 1637. A bill to amend the Department of
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 to re-
affirm the authority of the Under Secretary
of Agriculture for Research, Education, and
Economics, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON):
S. 1638. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to increase the maximum limit
on the number of special masters allowed in
the United States Court of Federal Claims,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.050 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3105
May 23, 2019
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
WHITEHOUSE):
S. 1639. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to revise the treatment of
partnership interests received in connection
with the performance of services, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. MORAN):
S. 1640. A bill to require compliant flame
mitigation devices to be used on portable
fuel containers for flammable liquid fuels,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself, Mr.
MORAN, Mr. HOEVEN, and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 1641. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude from gross in-
come interest received on certain loans se-
cured by agricultural real property; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 1642. A bill to increase the recruitment
and retention of school-based mental health
services providers by low-income local edu-
cational agencies; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. MERKLEY, and Mr. RISCH):
S. 1643. A bill to amend title 36, United
States Code, to grant a Federal charter to
the Forest and Refuge County Foundation,
to provide for the establishment of the Nat-
ural Resources Permanent Fund, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. COTTON, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
Mr. BLUNT, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. CASSIDY,
Mr. CRUZ, Mr. DAINES, Mr. GRASSLEY,
Mr. HOEVEN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
PERDUE, Mr. RISCH, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
WICKER, and Mr. CORNYN):
S. 1644. A bill to ensure that State and
local law enforcement may cooperate with
Federal officials to protect our communities
from violent criminals and suspected terror-
ists who are illegally present in the United
States; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
MARKEY, Ms. WARREN, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. STABENOW, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. TESTER, Ms. ROSEN,
Mr. COONS, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. HIRONO,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. KING,
Ms. SMITH, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. WYDEN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. MURPHY, Mr.
LEAHY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. CARPER, Ms. CANTWELL,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. WARNER, Mr. UDALL,
Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. KAINE, Mr. DURBIN,
and Ms. SINEMA):
S. 1645. A bill to protect a woman’s ability
to determine whether and when to bear a
child or end a pregnancy, and to protect a
health care provider’s ability to provide re-
productive health care services, including
abortion services; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. 1646. A bill to designate the community-
based outpatient clinic of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in St. Augustine, Florida,
as the ‘‘Leo C. Chase Jr. Department of Vet-
erans Affairs Clinic’’ ; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and
Mr. MENENDEZ):
S. 1647. A bill to amend title V of the So-
cial Security Act to extend funding for fam-
ily-to-family health information centers,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr.
TESTER, and Mrs. MURRAY):
S. 1648. A bill to reinstate and compensate
family caregivers who were improperly re-
moved from the family caregiver program of
the Department of Veterans Affairs or whose
benefits were reduced and to ensure all vet-
eran caregivers receive the support and as-
sistance to which they are eligible in a fair
and consistent manner, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. LEAHY,
Ms. WARREN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. MERKLEY,
and Mr. SCHATZ):
S. 1649. A bill to restore protections for So-
cial Security, Railroad retirement, and
Black Lung benefits from administrative off-
set; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. JONES,
and Mr. BROWN):
S. 1650. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide formula grants
to States to improve higher education oppor-
tunities for foster youth and homeless
youth, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, and Mr. CARDIN):
S. 1651. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to include foster care tran-
sition youth as members of targeted groups
for purposes of the work opportunity credit;
to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. BLUNT,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. SASSE, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. RISCH, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. INHOFE, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. ROUNDS,
and Mr. TESTER):
S. 1652. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for a refundable
adoption tax credit; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. SULLIVAN:
S. 1653. A bill to amend section 3063 of title
18, United States Code, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. ISAK-
SON, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. PORTMAN,
Mr. CARDIN, and Mr. CASSIDY):
S. 1654. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide authority to add
additional vaccines to the list of taxable vac-
cines; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Ms.
WARREN):
S. 1655. A bill to provide for the carriage of
certain television broadcast stations, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 1656. A bill to modify the transition pe-
riod between care and services provided
under the Veterans Choice Program and care
and services provided under the Veterans
Community Care Program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Ms.
SMITH, and Mr. KING):
S. 1657. A bill to provide assistance to com-
bat the escalating burden of Lyme disease
and other tick and vector-borne diseases and
disorders; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, and Mr. COONS):
S. 1658. A bill to provide for oversight of
North Korea policy, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mr.
REED):
S. 1659. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to provide for the participation
of pediatric subspecialists in the National
Health Service Corps program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. HASSAN,
and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 1660. A bill to provide greater support
for grandfamilies and older caretaker rel-
atives; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, and Mr. LEAHY):
S. 1661. A bill to provide for the establish-
ment of the United States Employee Owner-
ship Bank, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 1662. A bill to establish an annual fee ap-
plicable to opioid manufacturers; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. KAINE, and Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN):
S. 1663. A bill to reauthorize funding to the
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Au-
thority contingent on improvements to the
governance and operations of the Transit
Authority; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself,
Ms. COLLINS, and Mr. GARDNER):
S. 1664. A bill to require reporting on pre-
scription drug expenditures under group
health plans and on prescription drug price
changes, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mrs.
CAPITO, Mr. KING, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. WYDEN,
Ms. MCSALLY, Mr. TESTER, Mr. RISCH,
Ms. SINEMA, and Mr. DAINES):
S. 1665. A bill to modify the procedures for
issuing special recreation permits for certain
public land units, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Ms. WARREN, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
LEAHY, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 1666. A bill to establish an Employee
Ownership and Participation Initiative, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina (for
himself, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. CASSIDY,
Mr. CRAMER, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr.
DAINES, Ms. ERNST, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
KING, Ms. SINEMA, Mr. JONES, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 1667. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to treat certain scholar-
ships as earned income for purposes of the
kiddie tax; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TESTER:
S. 1668. A bill to clarify that participants
in the National Health Service Corps Loan
Repayment Program may be assigned to
serve in pediatric inpatient mental health
facilities; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. RISCH, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BRAUN, and Ms. SINEMA):
S. 1669. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to define the term
natural cheese; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.063 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3106 May 23, 2019
By Mr. JONES (for himself and Ms.
MCSALLY):
S. 1670. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to establish a grant program
for multigenerational activities for long-
term care facilities; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. JONES (for himself and Mr.
CASEY):
S. 1671. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to direct resources that pro-
mote multigenerational collaboration, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. JONES (for himself and Ms.
MCSALLY):
S. 1672. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to authorize the National
Resource Center on Women and Retirement
Planning, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr.
MENENDEZ):
S. 1673. A bill to extend the authority for
the establishment of a commemorative work
in honor of Gold Star Families, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 1674. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to establish a competitive
grant program to enable States to purchase,
customize, or repair vehicles with hot and
cold food storage for delivering meals to
older individuals through the Congregate
Nutrition Program or the Home-Delivered
Nutrition Program; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr.
KENNEDY):
S. 1675. A bill to impose requirements on
the payment of compensation to professional
persons employed in voluntary cases com-
menced under title III of PROMESA; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
BLUNT):
S. 1676. A bill to improve the under-
standing of, and promote access to treat-
ment for, chronic kidney disease, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. PERDUE (for himself and Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO):
S. 1677. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide authority to
postpone certain deadlines by reason of
State declared disasters or emergencies; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. CORNYN):
S. 1678. A bill to express United States sup-
port for Taiwan’s diplomatic alliances
around the world; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
REED, and Mr. SULLIVAN):
S. 1679. A bill to require the Secretary of
Defense to carry out the Direct Air Capture
and Blue Carbon Removal Technology Pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 1680. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to enhance recordkeeping with
respect to exposure by members of the
Armed Forces to certain occupational and
environmental hazards while deployed over-
seas, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself and Ms. HAS-
SAN):
S. 1681. A bill to educate health care pro-
viders and the public on biosimilar biological
products, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. DAINES:
S. 1682. A bill to require the Director of the
Office of Personnel Management to create a
classification that more accurately reflects
the vital role of wildland firefighters; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Mr. DAINES:
S. 1683. A bill to correct problems per-
taining to human resources for career and
volunteer personnel engaged in wildland fire
and structure fire; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Mr.
SHELBY):
S. 1684. A bill to prevent prisoners who
have been convicted of terrorism related of-
fenses from being eligible for early release,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. CAS-
SIDY, Mr. COONS, and Ms. SINEMA):
S. 1685. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish a program for the re-
search, development, and demonstration of
commercially viable technologies for the
capture of carbon dioxide produced during
the generation of natural gas-generated
power; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. 1686. A bill to amend the Federal Fund-
ing Accountability and Transparency Act of
2006 to require full disclosure for entities re-
ceiving Federal funding; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mrs. HYDE–SMITH (for herself, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. COTTON):
S. 1687. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a special rule for
certain casualty losses of uncut timber; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself and Mr.
CASEY):
S. 1688. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to provide for the full disclosure
of billing and service information to pa-
tients; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BOOKER:
S. 1689. A bill to permit States to transfer
certain funds from the clean water revolving
fund of a State to the drinking water revolv-
ing fund of the State in certain cir-
cumstances, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Mr.
MANCHIN):
S. 1690. A bill to improve United States
missile defense, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 1691. A bill to provide mandatory fund-
ing to the Secretary of Agriculture to carry
out hazardous fuels reduction projects on
National Forest System land, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Ms. COLLINS):
S. 1692. A bill to provide grants to support
continuing education in election administra-
tion or cybersecurity for election officials
and employees; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 1693. A bill to reauthorize the National
Flood Insurance Program; considered and
passed.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
CRUZ):
S. 1694. A bill to require any Federal agen-
cy that issues licenses to conduct activities
in outer space to include in the requirements
for such licenses an agreement relating to
the preservation and protection of the Apollo
11 landing site, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. LEE:
S. 1695. A bill to amend the Wilderness Act
to allow local Federal officials to determine
the manner in which nonmotorized uses may
be permitted in wilderness areas, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr.
SCHATZ, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BOOKER,
Ms. CANTWELL, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. MURRAY, Ms.
ROSEN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. SMITH, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms.
WARREN, Ms. SINEMA, and Mr. KAINE):
S. Res. 219. A resolution honoring the life
and legacy of Patsy Takemoto Mink, the
first woman of color to serve in Congress; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. MURPHY, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MORAN,
Mr. COONS, Mr. DAINES, Mr. BENNET,
Mr. INHOFE, Mr. TESTER, Mr. CRAPO,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. HOEVEN, Ms. STABENOW, Ms.
COLLINS, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. YOUNG, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. LEAHY,
Mrs. CAPITO, Ms. SMITH, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. REED, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. Res. 220. A resolution designating the
month of June 2019 as ‘‘National Post-Trau-
matic Stress Awareness Month’’ and June 27,
2019, as ‘‘National Post-Traumatic Stress
Awareness Day’’; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. RISCH, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Mr. TOOMEY, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. Res. 221. A resolution recognizing the
30th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square
massacre and condemning the intensifying
repression and human rights violations by
the Chinese Communist Party and the use of
surveillance by Chinese authorities, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Ms. ERNST,
Ms. HARRIS, Mr. WICKER, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
PERDUE, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. TOOMEY,
Mr. BROWN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. ROUNDS,
Mr. TILLIS, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. SINEMA, Mr. ROMNEY,
Mr. BURR, Mr. JONES, Mrs. BLACK-
BURN, Mr. KAINE, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. SCOTT
of South Carolina, Ms. COLLINS, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. ROBERTS, Mrs. FISCH-
ER, Mr. MORAN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
KENNEDY, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. CRAPO,
Mr. DAINES, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. BLUNT,
Mr. THUNE, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. LANKFORD, and Mr. UDALL):
S. Res. 222. A resolution recognizing Vision
To Learn as a national leader in improving
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.066 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3107
May 23, 2019
access to prescription eyeglasses for students
in low-income communities, thereby helping
those students succeed in school, and for pro-
viding vision exams to 200,000 students since
its founding; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. REED,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, and Mr. CASEY):
S. Res. 223. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of May 17, 2019, as ‘‘DIPG
Pediatric Brain Cancer Awareness Day’’ to
raise awareness of and encourage research on
diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma tumors and
pediatric cancers in general; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. Res. 224. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of National Nurses Week, to
be observed from May 6 through May 12, 2019;
considered and agreed to.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. COONS, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
KING, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. SINEMA, Mr.
CASEY, Ms. HARRIS, and Ms. WARREN):
S. Res. 225. A resolution supporting the
goals of International Myalgic
Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syn-
drome Awareness Day; considered and agreed
to.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. JONES, Mr. TILLIS,
Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. KING, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Mr. BLUNT, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. KAINE, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
CASEY, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. ENZI,
and Mr. YOUNG):
S. Res. 226. A resolution recognizing Na-
tional Foster Care Month as an opportunity
to raise awareness about the challenges of
children in the foster care system, and en-
couraging Congress to implement policy to
improve the lives of children in the foster
care system; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 91
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. YOUNG) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 91, a bill to amend
title 38, United States Code, to author-
ize per diem payments under com-
prehensive service programs for home-
less veterans to furnish care to depend-
ents of homeless veterans, and for
other purposes.
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
133, a bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal, collectively, to the United
States merchant mariners of World
War II, in recognition of their dedi-
cated and vital service during World
War II.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 178, a bill to condemn
gross human rights violations of ethnic
Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and call-
ing for an end to arbitrary detention,
torture, and harassment of these com-
munities inside and outside China.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) and the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) were added as cosponsors
of S. 203, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently
extend the railroad track maintenance
credit, and for other purposes.
S. 239
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 239, a bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in recogni-
tion of Christa McAuliffe.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES), the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY), the Senator
from South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) and
the Senator from Mississippi (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH) were added as cosponsors
of S. 362, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to reform tax-
ation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 457
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD), the Senator from
Utah (Mr. ROMNEY) and the Senator
from Mississippi (Mr. WICKER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 457, a bill to
require that $1 coins issued during 2019
honor President George H.W. Bush and
to direct the Secretary of the Treasury
to issue bullion coins during 2019 in
honor of Barbara Bush.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 460, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the
exclusion for employer-provided edu-
cation assistance to employer pay-
ments of student loans.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 479, a bill to revise sec-
tion 48 of title 18, United States Code,
and for other purposes.
S. 546
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 546, a bill to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund of 2001 through fiscal
year 2090, and for other purposes.
S. 551
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 551, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to require
manufacturers of certain single-dose
vial drugs payable under part B of the
Medicare program to provide rebates
with respect to amounts of such drugs
discarded, and for other purposes.
S. 559
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
559, a bill to amend the Family and
Medical Leave Act of 1993 to provide
leave because of the death of a son or
daughter.
S. 569
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 569, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Transportation to issue
regulations relating to commercial
motor vehicle drivers under the age of
21, and for other purposes.
S. 578
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from North
Carolina (Mr. BURR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 578, a bill to amend title
II of the Social Security Act to elimi-
nate the five-month waiting period for
disability insurance benefits under
such title for individuals with
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
S. 622
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER), the Senator from Texas
(Mr. CRUZ) and the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 622, a bill to amend
title 10, United States Code, to repeal
the requirement for reduction of sur-
vivor annuities under the Survivor
Benefit Plan by veterans’ dependency
and indemnity compensation, and for
other purposes.
S. 633
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
633, a bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to the members of the
Women’s Army Corps who were as-
signed to the 6888th Central Postal Di-
rectory Battalion, known as the ‘‘Six
Triple Eight’’.
S. 640
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 640, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to re-
quire pharmacy-negotiated price con-
cessions to be included in negotiated
prices at the point-of-sale under part D
of the Medicare program, and for other
purposes.
S. 689
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 689, a bill to amend the Animal
Health Protection Act to support State
and Tribal efforts to develop and im-
plement management strategies to ad-
dress chronic wasting disease among
deer, elk, and moose populations, to
support research regarding the causes
of chronic wasting disease and methods
to control the further spread of the dis-
ease, and for other purposes.
S. 726
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 726, a bill to amend the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.068 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3108 May 23, 2019
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
to ensure the safety of cosmetics.
S. 727
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS), the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. KAINE) and the Senator from
Michigan (Mr. PETERS) were added as
cosponsors of S. 727, a bill to combat
international extremism by addressing
global fragility and violence and stabi-
lizing conflict-affected areas, and for
other purposes.
S. 762
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
names of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) and the Senator from New
Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 762, a bill to provide
for funding from the Airport and Air-
way Trust Fund for all Federal Avia-
tion Administration activities in the
event of a Government shutdown, and
for other purposes.
S. 778
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 778, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Commerce, acting through
the Administrator of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration,
to conduct coastal community vulner-
ability assessments related to ocean
acidification, and for other purposes.
S. 846
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) and the Senator from
Wisconsin (Mr. JOHNSON) were added as
cosponsors of S. 846, a bill to amend
title 49, United States Code, to limit
certain rolling stock procurements,
and for other purposes.
S. 851
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 851, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Labor to issue an occupa-
tional safety and health standard that
requires covered employers within the
health care and social service indus-
tries to develop and implement a com-
prehensive workplace violence preven-
tion plan, and for other purposes.
S. 864
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Maine
(Ms. COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 864, a bill to provide for further
comprehensive research at the Na-
tional Institute of Neurological Dis-
orders and Stroke on unruptured
intracranial aneurysms.
S. 867
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 867, a bill to protect stu-
dents of institutions of higher edu-
cation and the taxpayer investment in
institutions of higher education by im-
proving oversight and accountability of
institutions of higher education, par-
ticularly for-profit colleges, improving
protections for students and borrowers,
and ensuring the integrity of postsec-
ondary education programs, and for
other purposes.
S. 872
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 872, a bill to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to rede-
sign $20 Federal reserve notes so as to
include a likeness of Harriet Tubman,
and for other purposes.
S. 1032
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1032, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the def-
inition of income for purposes of deter-
mining the tax-exempt status of cer-
tain corporations.
S. 1081
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) and the Senator from
Alabama (Mr. JONES) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1081, a bill to amend title
54, United States Code, to provide per-
manent, dedicated funding for the Land
and Water Conservation Fund, and for
other purposes.
S. 1083
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1083, a bill to address the
fundamental injustice, cruelty, bru-
tality, and inhumanity of slavery in
the United States and the 13 American
colonies between 1619 and 1865 and to
establish a commission to study and
consider a national apology and pro-
posal for reparations for the institu-
tion of slavery, its subsequent de jure
and de facto racial and economic dis-
crimination against African-Ameri-
cans, and the impact of these forces on
living African-Americans, to make rec-
ommendations to the Congress on ap-
propriate remedies, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1126
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) and the Senator from
New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1126, a bill to
provide better care for Americans liv-
ing with Alzheimer’s disease and re-
lated dementias and their caregivers,
while accelerating progress toward pre-
vention strategies, disease modifying
treatments, and, ultimately, a cure.
S. 1201
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1201, a bill to amend the fossil en-
ergy research and development provi-
sions of the Energy Policy Act of 2005
to enhance fossil fuel technology, and
for other purposes.
S. 1218
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1218, a bill to require the review of
the service of certain members of the
Armed Forces during World War I to
determine if such members should be
awarded the Medal of Honor, to author-
ize the award of the Medal of Honor
based on the results of the review, and
for other purposes.
S. 1235
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the names of the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. BROWN), the Senator from Utah
(Mr. ROMNEY), the Senator from Wyo-
ming (Mr. ENZI), the Senator from Illi-
nois (Mr. DURBIN) and the Senator from
Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1235, a bill to
require the Secretary of the Treasury
to mint coins in commemoration of
ratification of the 19th Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States,
giving women in the United States the
right to vote.
S. 1263
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Kansas
(Mr. MORAN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1263, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to establish
an interagency task force on the use of
public lands to provide medical treat-
ment and therapy to veterans through
outdoor recreation.
S. 1350
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
names of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE), the Senator from Arkan-
sas (Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Senator
from Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1350, a
bill to amend the Public Health Serv-
ice Act to limit the liability of health
care professionals who volunteer to
provide health care services in response
to a disaster.
S. 1370
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, his name
was added as a cosponsor of S. 1370, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to treat certain military
survivor benefits as earned income for
purposes of the kiddie tax.
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1370, supra.
S. 1394
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1394, a bill to provide collective bar-
gaining rights for public safety officers
employed by States or their political
subdivisions.
S. 1409
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1409, a bill to enhance the ability
of the Office of the National Ombuds-
man to assist small businesses in meet-
ing regulatory requirements and de-
velop outreach initiatives to promote
awareness of the services the Office of
the National Ombudsman provides, and
for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.054 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3109
May 23, 2019
S. 1441
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Wisconsin (Mr.
JOHNSON) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1441, a bill to impose sanctions with
respect to the provision of certain ves-
sels for the construction of Russian en-
ergy export pipelines, and for other
purposes.
S. 1449
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1449, a bill to amend the
Controlled Substances Act to require
warning labels for prescription opioids,
and for other purposes.
S. 1518
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1518, a bill to improve the process by
which environmental documents are
prepared and permits and applications
are processed and regulated by Federal
departments and agencies, and for
other purposes.
S. 1520
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1520, a bill to reauthorize
the National Flood Insurance Program.
S. 1531
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN), the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH), the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM), the Senator
from Ohio (Mr. PORTMAN), the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ) and
the Senator from Mississippi (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH) were added as cosponsors
of S. 1531, a bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide protec-
tions for health insurance consumers
from surprise billing.
S. 1533
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1533, a bill to reauthorize
the National Flood Insurance Program.
S. 1539
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1539, a bill to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
provide funding to secure nonprofit fa-
cilities from terrorist attacks, and for
other purposes.
S. 1547
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1547, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, relating to sen-
tencing of armed career criminals.
S. 1623
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1623, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to allow for dis-
tributions from 529 accounts for ex-
penses associated with registered ap-
prenticeship programs.
S.J. RES. 1
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from South Carolina
(Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor
of S.J. Res. 1, a joint resolution pro-
posing an amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States relative to
limiting the number of terms that a
Member of Congress may serve.
S. RES. 99
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) and the Senator from
Illinois (Mr. DURBIN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 99, a resolution ex-
pressing the sense of the Senate that
Congress should take all appropriate
measures to ensure that the United
States Postal Service remains an inde-
pendent establishment of the Federal
Government and is not subject to pri-
vatization.
S. RES. 135
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 135, a resolution express-
ing the gratitude and appreciation of
the Senate for the acts of heroism and
valor by the members of the United
States Armed Forces who participated
in the June 6, 1944, amphibious landing
at Normandy, France, and commending
those individuals for leadership and
bravery in an operation that helped
bring an end to World War II.
S. RES. 212
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT), the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY), the Senator from
New York (Mr. SCHUMER), the Senator
from Alabama (Mr. JONES), the Senator
from Virginia (Mr. KAINE), the Senator
from Connecticut (Mr. MURPHY), the
Senator from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN), the
Senator from Connecticut (Mr.
BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. BOOKER), the Senator from
Illinois (Mr. DURBIN), the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. REED) and the Sen-
ator from Ohio (Mr. BROWN) were added
as cosponsors of S. Res. 212, a resolu-
tion celebrating the 100th anniversary
of the passage and ratification of the
19th Amendment, providing for wom-
en’s suffrage, to the Constitution of the
United States.
S. RES. 214
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 214, a resolution recognizing
the history and contributions of Mus-
lims of the United States.
S. RES. 218
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 218, a resolution recog-
nizing the significance of Asian/Pacific
American Heritage Month as an impor-
tant time to celebrate the significant
contributions of Asian Americans and
Pacific Islanders to the history of the
United States.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. MERKLEY, and Mr.
RISCH):
S. 1643. A bill to amend title 36,
United States Code, to grant a Federal
charter to the Forest and Refuge Coun-
ty Foundation, to provide for the es-
tablishment of the Natural Resources
Permanent Fund, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today
Senator CRAPO of Idaho, Senator
MERKLEY of Oregon, Senator RISCH of
Idaho, and I are introducing the Forest
Management for Rural Stability Act.
This legislation replaces the Secure
Rural Schools and Community Self-De-
termination Act (SRS) to provide rev-
enue sharing with and compensation to
over 700 rural forested counties in the
over 40 States that host America’s
treasured, public forested lands and
wildlife refuges.
In 2000, then-Senator Larry Craig,
also of Idaho, and I, had signed into
law SRS: a 6-year long safety-net pro-
gram to stabilize county budgets fol-
lowing years of depleted revenue shar-
ing payments from the U.S. Forest
Service (USFS) and the Oregon and
California Grant Lands managed by the
U.S. Bureau of Land Management
(BLM). Over its lifetime, SRS has been
a success, providing more than $6.8 bil-
lion nationwide for rural roads,
schools, and healthy forest projects.
SRS also provided the basis for the be-
ginning of, and the now growing pro-
pensity for, the USFS and the BLM to
collaborate with local people and inter-
ests on the management of these public
lands, and for local folks and counties
to collaborate together and with the
USFS and BLM, in return.
Despite its many successes, the con-
tinuation of SRS is in jeopardy. The
program expired in fiscal year 2016.
Congress passed a two-year extension
of the program, but after its expira-
tion. And this was not the first time
nor the last time Congress allowed it
to expire—SRS is expired right now,
though Senator CRAPO and I are at-
tempting, in these last moments of the
115th Congress, to reauthorize it again
for at least a year, perhaps two.
This stop and start existence of this
program hits at the heart of any at-
tempts at collaboration. And it cer-
tainly undermines any attempts for a
county to budget. Our rural counties
should not continue to suffer neither
this uncertainty, nor the market based
uncertainty that comes with simply re-
lying on revenue sharing and forest
management for support.
That is why Senator CRAPO and I pro-
pose an SRS modernization, funding
certainty while supporting active for-
est management. The Forest Manage-
ment for Rural Stability Act estab-
lishes a permanent endowment fund,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.056 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3110 May 23, 2019
the Natural Resources Permanent
Fund, to provide stable, reliable, in-
creasing payments to counties, in per-
petuity, removing them from the va-
garies of Congress or the market.
Under this legislation, Congress char-
ters a fiduciary corporation, the Forest
and Refuge County Foundation, to
manage the endowed fund. The cor-
poration will be independent from any
instrumentality of the U.S. govern-
ment, including Congress, to ensure
the principle balance is held in per-
petuity and is separate from annual ap-
propriations. The corporation will be
overseen by a board of directors re-
sponsible for a transparent governance
structure. The principle of the fund
will be invested to earn interest. To
grow the fund, in addition to the in-
vestment income, the USFS, BLM, and
the Fish and Wildlife Service will de-
posit their annual revenue sharing re-
ceipts into the fund. The interest the
fund generates will constitute the pay-
ments to the counties, distributed an-
nually using the existing SRS formula.
Initial payments to counties will be
equal what counties received for Fiscal
Year 2017 SRS payments.
The Forest Management for Rural
Stability Act continues Congress’s
commitment to fostering economic
growth in rural counties by continuing
Forest Service Resource Advisory Com-
mittees. In addition, the bill gives
county governments greater flexibility
in how these funds are spent for eco-
nomic development and rural jobs.
Passing the Forest Management for
Rural Stability Act will update SRS
for 2018 and beyond—looking forward
for our forested counties, rather than
backward to last century efforts.
This bill updates an already success-
ful program that deserves action. I
urge my colleagues to support this im-
portant bill.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
LEAHY, Ms. WARREN, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. SANDERS, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. MERKLEY, and
Mr. SCHATZ):
S. 1649. A bill to restore protections
for Social Security, Railroad retire-
ment, and Black Lung benefits from
administrative offset; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, Social
Security provides vital benefits to mil-
lions of Americans who work and pay
into the system with each paycheck.
Because Social Security is funda-
mental to workers’ retirement secu-
rity, the law protected benefits from
creditors. The only exceptions were un-
paid Federal taxes, child support or ali-
mony payments, and court-ordered vic-
tim restitution. These protections en-
sured that the social safety net pro-
grams would be there for basic needs.
That protection was weakened over 20
years ago when the law was changed.
Now, more and more seniors face cuts
in their Social Security benefits be-
cause of student loan debts. The Wall
Street Journal recently highlighted
the issue with an article titled, ‘‘Over
60, and Crushed by Student Loan
Debt.’’ We need to take action to re-
store the strong protections to Social
Security and other benefit programs.
We now realize what a profound ef-
fect the loss of these protections has
had on retirees and individuals with
disabilities, who often live on fixed in-
comes. More and more seniors and peo-
ple with disabilities are having their
Social Security and other lifeline bene-
fits taken away to pay Federal debts.
For example, according to recent data
from the U.S. Bureau of Fiscal Service,
over 167,000 Americans had their bene-
fits garnished for student loan debt.
Those 167,000 had nearly $200 million
garnished from their earned benefits.
This is just the tip of the iceberg as
more Americans start receiving bene-
fits. Between 2008 and 2018, the number
of individuals whose Social Security
benefits were offset to pay student
loans debt increased by 133 percent,
from about 72,000 to 169,000. Over that
same period, the amount collected
from Social Security benefits
ballooned from almost $63 million to
nearly $200 million, a 217 percent in-
crease.
Social Security plays a critical role
in keeping seniors and people with dis-
abilities out of poverty. In Oregon
alone, Social Security cuts the poverty
rate of the elderly from about 35 per-
cent to 5 percent. However, despite So-
cial Security’s critical role in the safe-
ty net, close to 1 out of every 10 seniors
over age 65 and 1 in 5 disabled workers
still live in poverty and that is simply
unacceptable.
I, along with Senators BROWN, WHITE-
HOUSE, LEAHY, WARREN, HIRANO, SAND-
ERS, GILLIBRAND, MERKLEY, and SCHATZ
are reintroducing the Protection of So-
cial Security Benefits Restoration Act.
The bill would restore the strong pro-
tections in the law that prevented the
government from taking earned bene-
fits to pay Federal non-tax debts, and
help ensure beneficiaries will be able to
maintain a basic standard of living.
The bill is supported by AARP, the Na-
tional Committee to Preserve Social
Security and Medicare, National Asso-
ciation of Disability Representatives,
AFL-CIO, National Organization of So-
cial Security Claimants’ Representa-
tives, Social Security Works, National
Organization for Women, Justice in
Aging, American Federation of Teach-
ers, Alliance for Retired Americans,
Economic Policy Institute.
I ask Unanimous Consent that a let-
ter from the National Committee to
Preserve Social Security and Medicare
endorsing our bill be printed in the
RECORD.
MAY 15, 2019.
Hon. RON WYDEN,
Dirksen Senate Office Building, Washington,
DC.
DEAR SENATOR WYDEN: On behalf of the
millions of members and supporters of the
National Committee to Preserve Social Se-
curity and Medicare, I write to endorse your
bill the ‘‘Protection of Social Security Bene-
fits Restoration Act.’’
Since the inception of the Social Security
program in 1935, the Social Security Act pro-
vided strong protections against loss of re-
tirement income through the garnishment or
attachment of Social Security benefits for
the purpose of recovering debts owed by re-
tirees. For decades the law provided near
iron-clad protection against impoverishment
in old age due to debt collection.
Unfortunately, in 1996 the Congress re-
versed course by authorizing the garnish-
ment of Social Security and other earned
benefits for the purpose of collecting debts
owed by seniors to the federal government.
Figuring prominently in this matter is the
recovery of student loan debts from seniors
who are living on their all-too-modest
monthly Social Security benefits.
With student loan debt becoming an in-
creasingly serious problem in this country,
we agree with you that now is the time to
act. The Congress must restore the historic
protections that once were provided by So-
cial Security against the spectacle of impov-
erishment in old age so that the federal gov-
ernment can collect debts that all too often
were incurred years, even decades ago.
For these reasons, the National Committee
endorses your bill, the ‘‘Protection of Social
Security Benefits Restoration Act,’’ and
urges other members of the United States
Senate to cosponsor this vitally important
measure. We thank you for your leadership
on this matter and look forward to working
with you to enact this bill.
Sincerely,
MAX RICHTMAN,
President and CEO,
National Committee
to Preserve Social
Security and Medi-
care.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1649
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protection
of Social Security Benefits Restoration
Act’’.
SEC. 2. PROTECTING SOCIAL SECURITY, RAIL-
ROAD RETIREMENT, AND BLACK
LUNG BENEFITS FROM ADMINISTRA-
TIVE OFFSET.
(a) PROHIBITION ON ADMINISTRATIVE OFFSET
AUTHORITY.—
(1) ASSIGNMENT UNDER SOCIAL SECURITY
ACT.—Section 207 of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 407) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
‘‘(d) Subparagraphs (A), (C), and (D) of sec-
tion 3716(c)(3) of title 31, United States Code,
as such subparagraphs were in effect on the
date before the date of enactment of the Pro-
tection of Social Security Benefits Restora-
tion Act, shall be null and void and of no ef-
fect.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) Section 14(a) of the Railroad Retire-
ment Act of 1974 (45 U.S.C. 231m(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘. The provisions of section 207(d) of the So-
cial Security Act shall apply with respect to
this title to the same extent as they apply in
the case of title II of such Act.’’.
(B) Section 2(e) of the Railroad Unemploy-
ment Insurance Act (45 U.S.C. 352(e)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘The provisions of section 207(d) of the So-
cial Security Act shall apply with respect to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.061 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3111
May 23, 2019
this title to the same extent as they apply in
the case of title II of such Act.’’
(b) REPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFSET AU-
THORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (3) of section
3716(c) of title 31, United States Code, is
amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘(3)(A)(i) Notwithstanding’’
and all that follows through ‘‘any overpay-
ment under such program).’’;
(B) by striking subparagraphs (C) and (D);
and
(C) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as
paragraph (3).
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Paragraph
(5) of such section is amended by striking
‘‘the Commissioner of Social Security and’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to any col-
lection by administrative offset occurring on
or after the date of enactment of this Act of
a claim arising before, on, or after the date
of enactment of this Act.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Ms.
SMITH, and Mr. KING):
S. 1657. A bill to provide assistance to
combat the escalating burden of Lyme
disease and other tick and vector-borne
diseases and disorders; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
today with my colleague from Min-
nesota, Senator TINA SMITH, to intro-
duce the TICK Act. This stands for
Ticks: Identify, Control, and Knockout
Act. I would also like to recognize my
colleague from Maine, Senator KING,
who is joining us as an original cospon-
sor.
Our bipartisan legislation would pro-
vide local communities and States
with the resources needed to help pre-
vent, detect early, and treat Lyme and
other tick-borne diseases.
Tick-borne diseases like Lyme have
become a major public health concern,
with the incidence exploding over the
past 15 years. The number of Ameri-
cans with tick-borne diseases has been
rising at an alarming rate. In 2003,
Lyme disease infected approximately
30,000 Americans. Last year there were
an estimated 450,000 cases—a stag-
gering 1,400-percent increase.
In Maine, last year alone, there were
2,000 new cases of Lyme disease. That
is a sharp increase from the 752 cases in
2010.
Other tick-borne diseases are also on
the rise. Anaplasmosis, for example,
has more than tripled.
Far too many Americans with Lyme
disease experience a complex diag-
nostic odyssey that takes months or
even years. One of my constituents,
Paula Jackson Jones, from
Damariscotta, ME, shared with me her
harrowing tale that took 2 years,
scores of tests, and 23 different physi-
cians before she finally received the
correct diagnosis that she had Lyme
disease. Her journey started one after-
noon 10 years ago after raking leaves in
her backyard. A week later, unusual
symptoms began to appear: anxiety at-
tacks, pain, muscle spasms, and fa-
tigue. These symptoms became debili-
tating.
Before receiving the correct diag-
nosis, Paula was diagnosed incorrectly
with multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s,
and other diseases. Once she finally re-
ceived the proper diagnosis and treat-
ment, Paula founded Midcoast Lyme
Disease Support & Education, a non-
profit that raises public awareness
about Lyme disease.
She told me:
This has been a 10-year crusade for me
with the first 5 years fighting for my life and
the latter, fighting on behalf of others.
In addition to the physical and emo-
tional toll that Lyme disease takes, it
is also expensive. Paula is still paying
off more than $250,000 worth of medical
bills that she has incurred. Medical
costs of Lyme disease are estimated at
$1.3 billion per year. When accounting
for indirect medical costs, including
the loss of work, the annual cost bal-
loons to $75 billion per year.
A correct and early diagnosis can re-
duce costs, as well as improve the prog-
nosis, but we have a long way to go.
When HIV became a public health cri-
sis, fortunately, a gold standard for
identification and treatment was de-
veloped within 10 years. Lyme disease,
by contrast, was identified more than
40 years ago; yet there still is no gold
standard treatment, and existing pre-
vention, education, and diagnostic ef-
forts have proven to be inadequate.
The TICK Act would apply a three-
pronged approach to addressing Lyme
and other tick and vector-borne dis-
eases. First, it would establish an of-
fice of oversight and coordination of
vector-borne diseases at the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services.
This office would develop a national
strategy to prevent and treat Lyme
and other tick-borne diseases. It would
expand research and improve testing,
treatment affordability, and public
awareness. The office would also co-
ordinate with key Federal agencies, in-
cluding the CDC, the Department of
Defense, USDA, and EPA to protect
Americans from these diseases.
Second, our bill would reauthorize
the Regional Centers for Excellence in
Vector-Borne Disease, which Congress
established in 2017 in response to the
Zika outbreak. Since then, tick-borne
diseases have accounted for three out
of four vector-borne diseases in our
country, and these centers have been
effective in leading the scientific re-
sponse. The Collins-Smith bill would
reauthorize these centers for another 5
years at $10 million per year.
Finally, our bill would establish CDC
grants, which would be awarded to
State health departments to improve
data collection and analysis, support
early detection and diagnosis, improve
treatment and heighten public aware-
ness. The TICK Act takes a comprehen-
sive approach to address tick-borne dis-
eases.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the RECORD at
the conclusion of my remarks letters of
support signed by more than 2 dozen
organizations supporting our bill, in-
cluding the Midcoast Lyme Disease and
Support Education organization, the
LivLyme Foundation, the Northeast
Regional Center for Excellence in Vec-
tor-Borne Diseases, the National Asso-
ciation of County and City Health Offi-
cials, and the Entomological Society of
America.
I urge all of our colleagues to support
this important legislation.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
MAY 22, 2019.
Re: Stakeholder Support for Bill on Vector-
Borne Disease Management.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
Dirksen Senate Office Building,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR COLLINS: On behalf of the
Vector-Borne Disease Network and allied or-
ganizations, we the undersigned write to ar-
ticulate our support for the objectives of
‘‘Ticks: Identify, Control, and Knockout
Act’’ or the ‘‘TICK Act,’’ which aims to com-
bat the escalating burden of VBD. The Vec-
tor-Borne Disease Network is a new stake-
holder group of non-profit organizations led
by the Entomological Society of America
(ESA) that aims to reduce human and ani-
mal suffering caused by arthropod disease
vectors.
Illnesses such as Lyme disease, Zika virus,
Malaria, and West Nile virus are transmitted
by vector organisms, primarily blood-feeding
insects or arthropods. Vectors ingest disease-
causing germs when biting an infected
human or animal and later inject them into
a new host during a subsequent bite.
Between 2004 and 2016, reported human dis-
ease cases in the U.S. resulting from bites
from arthropods—primarily ticks and mos-
quitoes—tripled, according to the U.S. Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC). Meanwhile, nine new germs spread by
ticks and mosquitoes were discovered or in-
troduced in that same timeframe. Disease
vectors also pose significant threats to both
livestock and companion animals. The un-
derlying causes for these trends are varying
and complex, and so are the potential solu-
tions.
Due to all the challenges mentioned above,
and the growing threat to American health
and security posed by vector-borne disease
(VBD), the Vector-Borne Disease Network is
pleased to see new legislation that aims to
establish an Office of Oversight and Coordi-
nation for VBD within the Department of
Health and Human Services to promote
interagency coordination; develop and main-
tain a national plan for responding to VBD;
reauthorize the CDC Regional Centers of Ex-
cellence in VBD for five years; and authorize
a cooperative agreement through CDC to
support state health department efforts to
improve management, surveillance, diag-
nosis, and education.
On behalf of this coalition of stakeholders
invested in the mission to reduce the public-
health and economic risks posed by ticks and
mosquitoes, we thank you for your commit-
ment to this critical issue.
Sincerely,
Anastasia Mosquito Control District of St.
Johns County (FL); Associated Executives of
Mosquito Control Work in New Jersey;
Drexel University, College of Medicine; En-
tomological Society of America; Colorado
Tick-Borne Disease Awareness Association;
College of Agricultural and Life Sciences,
University of Wisconsin-Madison; Hudson
Valley Lyme Disease Association; Lyme As-
sociation of Greater Kansas City, Inc.; Mid-
west Center of Excellence for Vector Borne
Disease; National Association of Vector-
Borne Disease Control Officials; New Jersey
Mosquito Control Association; North Fork
Deer Management Alliance;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.075 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3112 May 23, 2019
Northeast Regional Center for Excellence
in Vector Borne Diseases; Pacific Southwest
Center of Excellence in Vector-Borne Dis-
eases; School of Veterinary Medicine at UW-
Madison; Southeastern Regional Center of
Excellence in Vector Borne Diseases; Univer-
sity of Miami Miller School of Medicine;
University of Rhode Island Center for Vec-
tor-Borne Disease; University of Rhode Is-
land TickEncounter Resource Center; US
Biologic; Western Gulf Center of Excellence
for Vector-borne Disease.
LETTER OF SUPPORT FOR THE TICK ACT—MAY
21, 2019
Please pass along my sincere gratitude to
Senator Collins for taking on this fight on
our behalf. This has been a 10-year crusade
for me with the first 5 years fighting for my
life and the latter, fighting on behalf of oth-
ers.
Bit by a tick in Oct 2009 while outside
doing fall clean up with my husband, I was
misdiagnosed for the next 2.5 years by 23 doc-
tors and specialist from panic attacks to
chronic fatigue to fibromyalgia. When a scan
revealed lesions on my brain appeared and
my neurological symptoms intensified, I was
tested and diagnosed with MS. When my
symptoms became even more severe and I
was not responding to treatment, I was re-
evaluated and my diagnosis changed to Par-
kinson’s. When I began to have trouble swal-
lowing and using my arms and legs was a
daily challenged, my medical providers
wanted me tested for ALS. I knew that was
a death sentence for me and it was at this
point I knew that I needed to fight. This was
when I spoke out for the first time and advo-
cated for myself.
Thanks to my sister in law who kept press-
ing me to be checked for Lyme disease, even
though I had 4 negative tests, I demanded to
see a provider who knew about Lyme. My
primary refused to give me a referral be-
cause that was not what they thought I had.
The intern gave me a scrap of paper with the
name of someone he knew saw Lyme pa-
tients and that doctor, number 24, saved my
life.
Shortly thereafter, with bloodwork and ad-
ditional tests, I was diagnosed with late
stage neurological Lyme, Babesia,
Bartonella, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever
and Erlichiosis.
These medical providers who knew more
about Lyme and tick-borne disease not only
saved my life but gave my life back to me.
Today, I am in full remission going on 5
years.
In April of 2014, I co-founded and became
President of Midcoast Lyme Disease Support
& Education (MLDSE), a charitable non-
profit 501c3 organization that travels state-
wide, hosting year-round free educational
and prevention talks and event. We advocate
for changes at state and federal levels and
provide support to those in Maine afflicted
by tick-borne disease by connecting them to
medical providers and financial assistance
programs. We are the Maine partner of the
national Lyme Disease Association, mem-
bers of Maine’s CDC Vector-borne Work
Group and active in Maine’s Lyme legisla-
tion. In 2018, I wore a federal hat as the co-
chair to the HHS Tick-borne Disease Work-
ing Group’s Access to Care Services and Pa-
tient Support subcommittee. I honored to
have been selected for that role as it defines
who I am these days, sitting in the trenches
alongside patients and their families and
connecting them with whatever services
they need as they journey back towards
health and wellness. I am not a victim but a
survivor and one who advocates for those
who cannot advocate for themselves.
This is a fulltime job for and one that I do
on a voluntary basis without pay.
Sen Collins, your support is so greatly
needed as funding is crucial to our work here
on the ground as well as on the hill. You see,
when people are personally touched by some-
thing, they fight and they fight hard to
make changes. We will not stop fighting
until the status quo changes. Until the new
science is embraced and patients are treated
with fairness and equality, irregardless of
the disease that they may have. We will
fight to protect the doctors who put their ca-
reers on the line each and every day to save
their patients.
When a cancer doctor thinks outside the
box and heals their patient, they are deemed
a hero. When a Lyme provider does it, they
are brought up under medical scrutiny and
disciplined beyond belief.
The governing body that exists and con-
trols all things to do with disease (IDSA)
wrote in their guidelines a foot note that
reads as follows:
These guidelines were developed and issued
on behalf of the Infectious Diseases Society
of America.
It is important to realize that guidelines
cannot always account for individual vari-
ation among patients. They are not intended
to supplant physician judgment with respect
to particular patients or special clinical sit-
uations. The Infectious Diseases Society of
America considers adherence to these guide-
lines to be voluntary, with the ultimate de-
termination regarding their application to
be made by the physician in the light of each
patient’s individual circumstances.
In 2013, ILADS introduced another set of
diagnostic and treatment options and after
passing a rigorous qualifying process, it was
introduced into the National Guidelines
Clearinghouse but ignored by IDSA and dis-
missed by mainstream medicine.
In 2015 advocates, patients and medical
providers were forced to pushed through a
bill of protection [Maine Public law LD422]
to protect those knowledgeable about tick-
borne disease who choose to do just that—
focus on the individual circumstances of
each patient and treat accordingly
Sen Collins, Lyme and tick-borne disease
is not a cookie cutter disease and a cookie
cutter approach has failed time and time
again. With your bill, a strong push and
more funding will help with provider and pa-
tient education and access to better diag-
nostic and treatment services.
Thank You so much,
Paula Jackson Jones, President and Co-
Founder, Midcoast Lyme Disease Support &
Education, Co-Chair of Access to Care Serv-
ices and Patient Support, subcommittee of
the HHS Federal Tick-borne Disease Work-
ing, Group; Maine partner of the National
Lyme Disease Association; Member of Maine
CDC Vector-Borne Workgroup; Active in
Maine’s Lyme Legislation movement.
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I thank
Senator COLLINS for her leadership on
this issue. I am very happy to have a
chance to work with her on this.
Today, my colleague Senator COL-
LINS and I are introducing a bill to help
fight Lyme disease, so we are intro-
ducing this bill today here in the Sen-
ate as many Minnesotans and Mainers
get ready to head out to our beautiful
national parks, lakes, and coastline to
go fishing, hiking, and all of the things
that we love, love, love to do.
In Minnesota, we have more than
10,000 lakes and a lot of space for out-
door activities, and we also have a
growing tick population due to warmer
summer months. With so many lakes
and our excitement to get outside after
a long winter, Minnesotans have be-
come more at risk of contracting Lyme
disease and other vector-borne illness.
A vector-borne illness means an ill-
ness that is carried by an insect, like
ticks. Unfortunately, the number of
Lyme disease cases in Minnesota is on
the rise. Over the past 10 years, the
number of reported cases has increased
by nearly a third.
Our bill, the TICK Act, aims to re-
duce the number of cases by estab-
lishing an interagency office of over-
sight and coordination to target, pre-
vent, and treat Lyme disease and other
vector-borne illnesses. In our legisla-
tion, we made sure to enable collabora-
tion between universities and public
health agencies, and it is important we
train and equip our public health first
responders in how best to prevent and
treat vector-borne illnesses.
The TICK Act is supported by a coali-
tion of researchers, as Senator COLLINS
just said, also frontline medical profes-
sionals and government officials from
across the country, so I urge my col-
leagues to listen to the professionals
on the ground fighting vector-borne
diseases and quickly take up and pass
this bill.
May is Lyme disease awareness
month. We must be aware of and pre-
pare for future vector-borne disease
outbreaks, and this bill will be an im-
portant first step.
So I want to thank Senator COLLINS,
my colleague on the HELP Committee,
for her leadership on this important
issue. I am glad we are able to work to-
gether on this bill.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and
Mr. REED):
S. 1659. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for the
participation of pediatric subspecial-
ists in the National Health Service
Corps program, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am
pleased to be joining Senator BLUNT in
introducing the Ensuring Children’s
Access to Specialty Care Act.
According to the American Associa-
tion of Child and Adolescent Psychi-
atry, there are currently only 8,300
child and adolescent psychiatrists
(CAPs) in the United States—many of
whom are not practicing full time—far
short of the estimated need of over
30,000 CAPs. On average, patients wait
almost two months to see a CAP, a
startling concern given that the inci-
dence rates of mental illness and be-
havioral disorders among children in
the United States continue to grow.
Fifty percent of all lifetime cases of
mental illness begin at age 14; seventy-
five percent by age 24.
The National Health Service Corps
Loan Repayment Program (NHSCLRP)
was created by Congress over forty
years ago to help recruit and place
trained individuals in underserved
communities to provide needed health
care services. Licensed health care pro-
viders may earn up to $50,000 toward
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.097 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3113
May 23, 2019
student loans in exchange for a two-
year commitment at an NHSC-ap-
proved site, within two years of com-
pleting their residency. Accepted par-
ticipants may serve as primary care
medical, dental, or mental/behavioral
health clinicians.
NHSCLRP provides critical relief to
physicians who have completed pediat-
rics or psychiatry residency training
programs; however, pediatric sub-
specialists, such as child and adoles-
cent psychiatrists, are effectively
barred from participating due to the
extra training these physicians are re-
quired to take after completing their
residency. This extra training, which
often results in increased student debt,
typically consists of a fellowship that
takes place in the two-year window of
eligibility for NHSCLRP. The creation
of NHSCLRP preceded the expansion of
many pediatric subspecialties, not tak-
ing into account the extra years of
training required for these physicians.
The Ensuring Children’s Access to
Specialty Care Act would correct this
loophole and allow pediatric sub-
specialists practicing in underserved
areas to benefit from the NHSCLRP.
By so doing, this bill would increase
access to specialty care for children
and improve mental health parity for
children.
Providers across the spectrum of care
support this bipartisan legislation in-
cluding: the American Association of
Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, the
American Academy of Pediatrics, the
Arthritis Foundation, Children’s Hos-
pital Association, March of Dimes, and
the National Alliance on Mental Ill-
ness. I look forward to working with
these and other stakeholders as well as
Senator BLUNT and our colleagues to
pass the Ensuring Children’s Access to
Specialty Care Act in order to help en-
sure children have greater access to
the health care they need.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 1693. A bill to reauthorize the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Program; con-
sidered and passed.
S. 1693
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National
Flood Insurance Program Extension Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIONAL FLOOD
INSURANCE PROGRAM.
(a) FINANCING.—Section 1309(a) of the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C.
4016(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘May 31,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘June 14, 2019’’.
(b) PROGRAM EXPIRATION.—Section 1319 of
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 4026) is amended by striking ‘‘May 31,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘June 14, 2019’’.
(c) RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE.—If this
Act is enacted after May 31, 2019, the amend-
ments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall
take effect as if enacted on May 31, 2019.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 219—HON-
ORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF PATSY TAKEMOTO MINK, THE
FIRST WOMAN OF COLOR TO
SERVE IN CONGRESS
Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr. SCHATZ,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. MURRAY, Ms.
ROSEN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. SMITH, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. WAR-
REN, Ms. SINEMA, and Mr. KAINE) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on the
Judiciary:
S. RES. 219
Whereas Patsy Takemoto Mink was born
in Paia, Hawaii, to Japanese-American par-
ents, Suematsu and Mitama Tateyama
Takemoto;
Whereas Patsy Takemoto Mink overcame
gender discrimination to become the first
Japanese-American woman to practice law
in Hawaii;
Whereas Patsy Takemoto Mink devoted
her life to public service;
Whereas Patsy Takemoto Mink served in—
(1) the Hawaii territorial House from 1956
to 1958;
(2) the Hawaii territorial Senate from 1958
to 1959;
(3) the Hawaii State Senate from 1962 to
1964; and
(4) the Honolulu City Council from 1983 to
1987;
Whereas Representative Mink became the
first Asian-American woman and the first
woman of color to be elected to Congress in
1964;
Whereas Representative Mink served 12
terms as a Member of Congress;
Whereas Representative Mink fought
throughout her life for fundamental rights
and equity for women, children, Asian Amer-
icans, and other minority and
disenfranchised groups;
Whereas Representative Mink—
(1) introduced the first childcare bill; and
(2) co-authored and championed the land-
mark title IX of the Education Amendments
of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.) to promote
equal access and equal treatment for women
and girls in educational settings;
Whereas Representative Mink maintained
a national focus on issues affecting Asian
Pacific Americans, notably educating people
of the United States about the internment of
Japanese Americans during World War II;
Whereas Representative Mink was a com-
mitted advocate for many progressive
causes, including—
(1) ending gender and racial discrimina-
tion;
(2) promoting social and economic justice;
(3) improving access to high-quality edu-
cation and affordable child care;
(4) protecting civil liberties; and
(5) ensuring government accountability;
Whereas Representative Mink was the first
Democratic woman to deliver a State of the
Union response in 1970;
Whereas Representative Mink was a co-
founder and chair of the Congressional Asian
Pacific American Caucus;
Whereas Representative Mink served as
the Secretary of the House Democratic Cau-
cus;
Whereas Representative Mink served as
the co-chair of the Democratic Women’s
Caucus;
Whereas, in 1977, President Jimmy Carter
nominated Patsy Takemoto Mink to serve as
Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and
International Environmental and Scientific
Affairs;
Whereas, in 2003, Patsy Takemoto Mink
was inducted into the National Women’s Hall
of Fame;
Whereas, on November 24, 2014, Patsy
Takemoto Mink was posthumously awarded
the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the high-
est civilian honor of the United States;
Whereas November 3, 2019, marks the 55th
anniversary of the election of Representative
Mink to the House of Representatives; and
Whereas Patsy Takemoto Mink was a
trailblazer who not only pioneered the way
for women and minorities, but also embodied
the true definition of leadership as a ‘‘na-
tional legislator’’: Now, therefore be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) acknowledges the 55th anniversary of
the election to the House of Representatives
of Patsy Takemoto Mink, the first woman of
color in Congress;
(2) pays tribute to the service and dedi-
cated work of Representative Mink—
(A) to improve the lives of women and mi-
norities;
(B) to advance justice and equality; and
(C) to promote the rights of all individuals
in the United States, particularly in edu-
cation, the workforce, and democratic proc-
esses; and
(3) recognizes the extraordinary work and
legacy of Representative Mink, which has in-
spired and empowered many to devote their
lives to public service.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I rise
today, during Asian Pacific American
Heritage month, in remembrance of
Representative Patsy Takemoto Mink.
Representative Mink was elected 55
years ago to represent Hawaii’s second
congressional district. In 2006, I had
the privilege of filling the seat that my
friend, Representative Mink, honorably
held for 24 years.
Patsy Mink was a trailblazer, whose
career embodied a series of firsts. She
was the first woman of color, and first
Asian American woman elected to Con-
gress in 1964. She became the first
Asian American woman to practice law
in Hawaii and the first Asian American
woman elected to the Hawaii terri-
torial legislature. No matter how many
times she was excluded from tradition-
ally male spheres, Representative
Mink persevered and took risks. She
overcame gender and racial discrimina-
tion and pursued a career during which
she fought the injustice that she had
endured. She devoted nearly 50 years of
her life to be a champion for those who
had no one to stand up and speak for
them.
Representative Mink maintained a
national focus on issues facing the
Asian Pacific American community.
Twenty-five years ago, she helped
found the Congressional Asian Pacific
American Caucus. She also worked
with members of Hawaii’s congres-
sional delegation to educate Americans
about the internment of Japanese
Americans during World War II.
Representative Mink fought through-
out her life for the principles of equity,
fairness, and integrity. She was a lead-
er on women’s rights, social and eco-
nomic justice, health care, child care,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.101 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3114 May 23, 2019
and education. She introduced the first
childcare bill in the House. Patsy’s
name is forever linked with the passage
of Title IX of the Education Amend-
ments of 1972, which she coauthored
and fought for relentlessly. This act is
now named the Patsy T. Mink and Lou-
ise M. Slaughter Gender Equity in Edu-
cation Act. Title IX provides women
and girls equal access to higher edu-
cation and protection from sexual har-
assment, and prohibits gender discrimi-
nation in all educational activities, no-
tably in athletics. Representative Mink
often said, ‘‘It is easy enough to vote
right and be consistently with the ma-
jority. But it is more often more im-
portant to be ahead of the majority.’’ I
know our country can remain forward-
thinking by ensuring that young
women and minorities are given equal
opportunity.
Representative Mink was one of only
eleven women to serve in the House of
Representatives in 1964, and she be-
came one of the longest-serving women
in Congress. She shattered the glass
ceiling during a time when women were
not seen as leaders, especially not in
Congress. Representative Mink con-
tinues to be an inspiration to many,
and her legacy lives on in schools, uni-
versities, and here, in Congress. Last
year, a record number of women ran for
public office and were elected. With 102
women elected to serve in the House of
Representatives and 25 women in the
Senate, the 116th Congress is the most
diverse yet. Patsy would have been de-
lighted.
In 2007, upon my election to the U.S.
House, I was proud to cast my first
vote in support of NANCY PELOSI for
speaker and did so in memory of Patsy
Mink. Earlier, Speaker PELOSI told me
that Representative Mink was the first
person to tell her that ‘‘one day, you’re
going to be speaker.’’ Patsy would have
loved to have been there to see her
words come true for her friend, NANCY.
The last time I saw Patsy was when
both of us were in the Kailua 4th of
July parade in 2002. She asked me to
have lunch with her. I have a picture of
us from that day and it is a poignant
reminder of my friend Patsy and her
attitude of never giving up and perse-
vering because our work is not done.
She is a continuing inspiration to me.
I yield the floor.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 220—DESIG-
NATING THE MONTH OF JUNE
2019 AS ‘‘NATIONAL POST-TRAU-
MATIC STRESS AWARENESS
MONTH’’ AND JUNE 27, 2019, AS
‘‘NATIONAL POST-TRAUMATIC
STRESS AWARENESS DAY’’
Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. CRAMER, Mr. MURPHY, Mrs. BLACK-
BURN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MORAN, Mr.
COONS, Mr. DAINES, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. TESTER, Mr. CRAPO, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
HOEVEN, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. COLLINS,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. YOUNG, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. RUBIO, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. ROBERTS,
Mr. LEAHY, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. REED, and Mr.
BOOKER) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 220
Whereas the brave men and women of the
Armed Forces, who proudly serve the United
States, risk their lives to protect the free-
dom of the people of the United States and
deserve the investment of every possible re-
source to ensure their lasting physical, men-
tal, and emotional well-being;
Whereas more than 2,770,000 members of
the Armed Forces have deployed overseas
since the events of September 11, 2001, and
have served in places such as Afghanistan
and Iraq;
Whereas the current generation of men and
women in the Armed Forces has sustained a
high rate of operational deployments, with
many members of the Armed Forces serving
overseas multiple times, placing those mem-
bers at high risk of experiencing combat
stress;
Whereas, when left untreated, exposure to
traumatic combat stress can lead to post-
traumatic stress, sometimes referred to as
post-traumatic stress disorder (in this pre-
amble referred to as ‘‘PTSD’’) or post-trau-
matic stress injury;
Whereas men and women of the Armed
Forces and veterans who served before Sep-
tember 11, 2001, remain at risk for post-trau-
matic stress;
Whereas the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
reports that approximately—
(1) 11 to 20 percent of veterans who served
in Operation Iraqi Freedom or Operation En-
during Freedom have PTSD in a given year;
(2) 12 percent of veterans who served in the
Persian Gulf War have PTSD in a given year;
and
(3) 30 percent of veterans who served in the
Vietnam era have had PTSD in their life-
times;
Whereas many combat stress injuries re-
main unreported, undiagnosed, and un-
treated due to a lack of awareness about
post-traumatic stress and the persistent
stigma associated with mental health condi-
tions;
Whereas exposure to trauma during service
in the Armed Forces can lead to post-trau-
matic stress;
Whereas post-traumatic stress signifi-
cantly increases the risk of anxiety, depres-
sion, suicide, homelessness, and drug- and al-
cohol-related disorders and deaths, espe-
cially if left untreated;
Whereas public perceptions of post-trau-
matic stress or other mental health dis-
orders create unique challenges for veterans
seeking employment;
Whereas the Department of Defense, the
Department of Veterans Affairs, and vet-
erans service organizations, as well as the
larger medical community, both private and
public, have made significant advances in
the identification, prevention, diagnosis, and
treatment of post-traumatic stress and the
symptoms of post-traumatic stress, but
many challenges remain;
Whereas increased understanding of post-
traumatic stress can help eliminate the stig-
ma attached to this mental health issue;
Whereas additional efforts are needed to
find further ways to eliminate the stigma as-
sociated with post-traumatic stress, includ-
ing—
(1) an examination of how post-traumatic
stress is discussed in the United States; and
(2) a recognition that post-traumatic stress
is a common injury that is treatable;
Whereas post-traumatic stress can result
from any number of stressors other than
combat, including rape, sexual assault, bat-
tery, torture, confinement, child abuse, car
accidents, train wrecks, plane crashes, bomb-
ings, or natural disasters, and affects ap-
proximately 8,000,000 adults in the United
States annually;
Whereas the diagnosis now known as PTSD
was first defined by the American Psy-
chiatric Association in 1980 to commonly and
more accurately understand and treat vet-
erans who had endured severe traumatic
combat stress;
Whereas the word ‘‘disorder’’ perpetuates
the stigma associated with combat stress;
and
Whereas the designation of a National
Post-Traumatic Stress Awareness Month and
a National Post-Traumatic Stress Awareness
Day will raise public awareness about issues
related to post-traumatic stress, reduce the
associated stigma, and help ensure that
those individuals suffering from the invisible
wounds of war receive proper treatment:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates June 2019 as ‘‘National Post-
Traumatic Stress Awareness Month’’ and
June 27, 2019, as ‘‘National Post-Traumatic
Stress Awareness Day’’;
(2) supports the efforts of the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of De-
fense, as well as the entire medical commu-
nity, to educate members of the Armed
Forces, veterans, the families of members of
the Armed Forces and veterans, and the pub-
lic about the causes, symptoms, and treat-
ment of post-traumatic stress;
(3) supports efforts by the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of De-
fense to foster cultural change around the
issue of post-traumatic stress, understanding
that personal interactions can save lives and
advance treatment;
(4) welcomes the efforts of the National
Center for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder of
the Department of Veterans Affairs and local
Vet Centers (as defined in section 1712A(h) of
title 38, United States Code) to provide as-
sistance to veterans who are suffering from
the effects of post-traumatic stress;
(5) encourages officers of the Armed Forces
to support appropriate treatment of men and
women of the Armed Forces who suffer from
post-traumatic stress;
(6) recognizes the impact of post-traumatic
stress on the spouses and families of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces and veterans; and
(7) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate transmit a copy of this resolu-
tion to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and
the Secretary of Defense.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 221—RECOG-
NIZING THE 30TH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE TIANANMEN SQUARE
MASSACRE AND CONDEMNING
THE INTENSIFYING REPRESSION
AND HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLA-
TIONS BY THE CHINESE COM-
MUNIST PARTY AND THE USE OF
SURVEILLANCE BY CHINESE AU-
THORITIES, AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES
Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. RISCH, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
TOOMEY, and Mr. RUBIO) submitted the
following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.082 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3115
May 23, 2019
S. RES. 221
Whereas the United States was founded on
the principle that all persons are endowed
with certain unalienable rights;
Whereas the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, adopted by the United Na-
tions General Assembly in Paris on Decem-
ber 10, 1948, enshrined the rights of freedom
of expression, assembly, and association;
Whereas, after the death on April 15, 1989,
of former General Secretary of the Chinese
Communist Party Hu Yaobang, who was
compelled to resign in 1987 for expressing
support of students demanding political re-
form, thousands of people gathered to mourn
him and demonstrate peacefully in Beijing;
Whereas, throughout April and May 1989,
peaceful demonstrations continued in
Tiananmen Square and in an estimated 400
other cities across China, with total numbers
of demonstrators reaching into the millions;
Whereas, on May 9, 1989, prompted by dis-
content over censorship of the coverage of
protests, more than 1,000 Chinese journalists
signed a petition calling for freedom of the
press;
Whereas, by May 18, 1989, an estimated
1,000,000 Chinese citizens from all walks of
life, including students, teachers, workers,
writers and other individuals, gathered
peacefully in Tiananmen Square to call for
political and economic reforms;
Whereas several Chinese individuals in po-
sitions of authority, including the presidents
of 8 Chinese universities and the central
committees of the Communist Youth League
of China, called for the Government of the
People’s Republic of China to accept the de-
mands of the Tiananmen Square protestors;
Whereas Chinese students abroad, includ-
ing in the United States, organized rallies in
support of the Tiananmen Square dem-
onstrations;
Whereas, on May 20, 1989, the Government
of the People’s Republic of China declared
martial law in Beijing and deployed troops of
the People’s Liberation Army within the
city;
Whereas, on June 4, 1989, troops of the Peo-
ple’s Liberation Army, at the behest of Chi-
nese Communist Party leadership, attacked
Tiananmen Square to repress demonstrators,
crushing defenseless protestors with tanks
and firing on them indiscriminately, killing
hundreds or possibly thousands of individ-
uals;
Whereas troops of the People’s Liberation
Army also suppressed protests in other cities
in China;
Whereas protestors braved the brutal re-
pression ordered by the Government of the
People’s Republic of China, including by fac-
ing down a column of tanks sent to intimi-
date unarmed civilians;
Whereas the Government of the People’s
Republic of China dishonestly portrayed the
individuals gathered as rioters;
Whereas, in 2019, the Government of the
People’s Republic of China censors any men-
tion of Tiananmen Square and imprisons its
own citizens who attempt to discuss
Tiananmen Square;
Whereas, in recent years, Chinese Com-
munist Party leadership, especially under
President Xi Jinping, has tightened its con-
trol over the lives of Chinese citizens and
suppressed beliefs and activities it views as
threatening to its rule, including through—
(1) the ‘‘709 Crackdown’’, in which the Gov-
ernment of the People’s Republic of China,
on July 9, 2015, detained and imprisoned hun-
dreds of lawyers working to uphold the rule
of law;
(2) the imprisonment of Chinese dissident
Liu Xiaobo, a Nobel Peace Prize winner and
outspoken advocate for political reform,
until his death in 2017; and
(3) the internment of 800,000 to possibly
more than 2,000,000 Uyghurs, ethnic Kazakhs,
and other Muslims in internment camps in
Xinjiang;
Whereas the 2018 Department of State an-
nual Country Report on Human Rights Prac-
tices for the People’s Republic of China de-
tailed the continued violations of funda-
mental freedoms, including the freedoms of
speech, the press, religion, association, and
assembly, by the Government of the People’s
Republic of China;
Whereas Congress has passed numerous
measures articulating the longstanding and
bipartisan commitment to support for
human rights in China, including—
(1) the sanctions imposed in response to
the Tiananmen Square massacre under sec-
tion 902 of the Foreign Relations Authoriza-
tion Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (Public
Law 101–246; 22 U.S.C. 2151 note);
(2) the United States-Hong Kong Policy
Act of 1992 (Public Law 102–383; 22 U.S.C. 5701
et seq.);
(3) the International Religious Freedom
Act of 1998 (Public Law 105–292; 22 U.S.C. 6401
et seq.);
(4) the U.S.-China Relations Act of 2000 (di-
vision B of Public Law 106–286; 22 U.S.C. 6901
et seq.);
(5) the Tibetan Policy Act of 2002 (subtitle
B of title VI of Public Law 107–228; 22 U.S.C.
6901 note);
(6) the Fourteenth Dalai Lama Congres-
sional Gold Medal Act (Public Law 109–287; 31
U.S.C. 5111 note);
(7) the North Korean Human Rights Act of
2004 (Public Law 108–333; 22 U.S.C. 7801 et
seq.);
(8) the North Korean Human Rights Reau-
thorization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–346);
(9) the Global Magnitsky Human Rights
Accountability Act (subtitle F of title XII of
Public Law 114–328; 22 U.S.C. 2656 note);
(10) the North Korean Human Rights Reau-
thorization Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–198);
and
(11) the Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–330);
Whereas, on December 31, 2018, President
Donald J. Trump signed into law the Asia
Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (Public
Law 115–409), which condemned the ‘‘forced
disappearances, extralegal detentions,
invasive and omnipresent surveillance, and
lack of due process in judicial proceedings’’
in China and authorized funding to promote
democracy, human rights, and the rule of
law in China;
Whereas the full, complete, and timely im-
plementation of all relevant laws of the
United States that address democracy,
human rights, and the rule of law in China,
including the Asia Reassurance Initiative
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–409), is critical to
demonstrating the unwavering support of
the United States for the fundamental rights
and freedoms of the Chinese people and to
providing full support for human rights de-
fenders in China;
Whereas the Chinese Communist Party has
passed and implemented sweeping laws that
provide the Government of the People’s Re-
public of China with broad authority to sup-
press the legitimate freedoms and activities
of Chinese citizens, civil society, and inter-
national entities operating inside China, in-
cluding—
(1) the 2014 Counterespionage Law;
(2) the 2015 National Security Law;
(3) the 2015 Counterterrorism Law;
(4) the 2016 Charity Law;
(5) the 2017 Law of the People’s Republic of
China on Administration of Activities of
Overseas Nongovernmental Organizations in
the Mainland of China; and
(6) the 2017 Cybersecurity Law;
Whereas the Chinese Communist Party has
used surveillance since the founding of the
People’s Republic of China in 1949 to main-
tain tight political and social control;
Whereas the ability of the Government of
the People’s Republic of China to monitor its
citizens and otherwise violate their funda-
mental rights and liberties has been acceler-
ated by the proliferation of closed-circuit se-
curity cameras, the adoption of new tech-
nologies such as facial recognition, and the
use of big data and artificial intelligence;
Whereas the Chinese Communist Party has
turned Xinjiang into a testing ground for
these intrusive, Orwellian surveillance meas-
ures;
Whereas the Government of the People’s
Republic of China is promoting a state-con-
trolled model of Internet governance that is
used to justify government repression of ex-
pression online;
Whereas Chinese companies are exporting
surveillance technologies to other countries
with poor human rights records, and the
Government of the People’s Republic of
China is providing training to officials in
these countries; and
Whereas, despite this long and intensifying
record of oppression by the Government of
the People’s Republic of China, selfless Chi-
nese human rights defenders continue their
work and advocacy because, in the words of
Liu Xiaobo, there is ‘‘no force that can put
an end to the human quest for freedom, and
China will in the end become a nation ruled
by law, where human rights reign supreme’’:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) expresses its deepest sympathy with the
family, friends, colleagues, and classmates of
the victims of the Tiananmen Square mas-
sacre;
(2) condemns the use of violence as a
means to repress the legitimate aspirations
of the Chinese people to speak and associate
freely, including to petition the government
and challenge the policies and ideology of
the Chinese Communist Party;
(3) calls on the Government of the People’s
Republic of China to invite full and inde-
pendent investigations into the Tiananmen
Square massacre by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights;
(4) calls on the Government of the People’s
Republic of China to release all political
prisoners, including prisoners held because of
their participation in the Tiananmen Square
protest or actions pursuing reforms called
for by the individuals gathered in
Tiananmen Square;
(5) calls on the Government of the People’s
Republic of China to refrain from intimi-
dating protest participants who fled China
and allow them to return to China without
fear of detention or other repercussions;
(6) calls on the Government of the People’s
Republic of China to cease its current repres-
sion of the Chinese people, including of law-
yers and activists who stand up for the
rights of their fellow citizens;
(7) urges the Government of the People’s
Republic of China to cease the use of emerg-
ing technologies as tools of oppression;
(8) calls on the United States Government
and Members of Congress to mark the 30th
anniversary of the Tiananmen Square pro-
tests, including by—
(A) meeting with participants of the
Tiananmen Square protests who now live
outside of China;
(B) meeting with others outside of China
who have been blacklisted by the Govern-
ment of the People’s Republic of China as a
result of their peaceful protest activities;
(C) supporting calls for accountability for
the officials who ordered the Tiananmen
Square massacre; and
(D) supporting individuals who continue to
call for reforms in China to further the free-
dom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:28 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.083 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3116 May 23, 2019
of the press, freedom to petition the govern-
ment, and freedom of religion; and
(9) calls on the international community
to cooperate in addressing the Government
of the People’s Republic of China’s continued
persecution of its own citizens, including the
use of intrusive mass surveillance.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 222—RECOG-
NIZING VISION TO LEARN AS A
NATIONAL LEADER IN IMPROV-
ING ACCESS TO PRESCRIPTION
EYEGLASSES FOR STUDENTS IN
LOW-INCOME COMMUNITIES,
THEREBY HELPING THOSE STU-
DENTS SUCCEED IN SCHOOL,
AND FOR PROVIDING VISION
EXAMS TO 200,000 STUDENTS
SINCE ITS FOUNDING
Mr. COONS (for himself, Ms. ERNST,
Ms. HARRIS, Mr. WICKER, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
PERDUE, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. TOOMEY,
Mr. BROWN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Ms. SINEMA, Mr. ROMNEY, Mr. BURR,
Mr. JONES, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina, Ms.
COLLINS, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. ROBERTS,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. MORAN, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. CRAPO, Mr. DAINES, Mr. ISAKSON,
Mr. BLUNT, Mr. THUNE, Mr. CARDIN, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. LANKFORD, and Mr. UDALL)
submitted the following resolution;
which was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 222
Whereas, on March 27, 2012, Vision To
Learn was founded by Austin and Virginia
Beutner in Los Angeles, California, to ad-
dress the problem of students in low-income
communities lacking the glasses needed for
those students to succeed in school and in
life;
Whereas Vision To Learn began with a sin-
gle mobile vision clinic, staffed with an eye
doctor and an optician—
(1) visiting Napa Street Elementary, a Los
Angeles Unified School District campus in
Northridge, California; and
(2) providing 5 students with vision exams
and prescription eyeglasses free of charge;
Whereas Vision To Learn operates 25 mo-
bile vision clinics, which have provided vi-
sion exams to 200,000 students in 13 States,
including—
(1) California;
(2) Delaware;
(3) Georgia;
(4) Hawaii;
(5) Iowa;
(6) Louisiana;
(7) Maryland;
(8) Michigan;
(9) Mississippi;
(10) New Jersey;
(11) North Carolina;
(12) Pennsylvania; and
(13) Virginia;
Whereas Vision To Learn has leveraged
partnerships with State Medicaid programs
and other organizations, including the
United Way of Iowa, Prevent Blindness Iowa,
and the Longwood Foundation in Delaware,
to increase program stability and further ex-
pand access to vision services;
Whereas Vision To Learn is leading an ef-
fort by educators and eye care professionals
to raise awareness of the inability of some
students to see clearly due to correctable
myopia or hyperopia, a basic educational
hurdle impacting over 2,000,000 students na-
tionwide that can be solved by providing stu-
dents with a basic vision exam and a pair of
prescription glasses;
Whereas the innovative mobile vision clin-
ic model developed by Vision To Learn deliv-
ers basic eye care to students at school,
where the students are every day, thereby
bypassing common hurdles preventing chil-
dren from seeing an eye doctor, such as—
(1) the inability of a parent or guardian to
take time off of work;
(2) a lack of transportation;
(3) a shortage of eye care providers accept-
ing Medicaid; and
(4) a misunderstanding of the cost or neces-
sity of eye care;
Whereas Vision To Learn has dem-
onstrated the ability of mobile vision clinics
to provide access to care for students in both
urban and rural communities;
Whereas, by reaching students who have
never visited an eye doctor and providing
those students with a first pair of glasses,
Vision To Learn introduces students and
parents to the need for ongoing eye care,
making it more likely that those students
and parents will seek out regular exams from
a local optometrist or ophthalmologist;
Whereas the program developed by Vision
To Learn identifies thousands of students
with more serious eye conditions and refers
those students to local eye doctors for fol-
low-up exams, in many cases intervening be-
fore students experience permanent vision
loss;
Whereas, in an effort to quantify the im-
pact of Vision To Learn on the ability of stu-
dents to access optometric care, the perform-
ance of students in school, and the behavior
of students in the classroom, the program
developed by Vision To Learn has been stud-
ied by health and educational researchers
at—
(1) the University of California, Los Ange-
les, Mattel Children’s Hospital (referred to in
this preamble as ‘‘UCLA Mattel Children’s
Hospital’’);
(2) the California Health and Human Serv-
ices Agency, Department of Health Care
Services; and
(3) The Johns Hopkins Wilmer Eye Insti-
tute;
Whereas the study carried out by UCLA
Mattel Children’s Hospital found that—
(1) after receiving glasses, students ‘‘were
able to pay better attention in class, were
more engaged, and were more willing to
complete their schoolwork, all of which con-
tributed to better overall school perform-
ance’’; and
(2) ‘‘Serving students in school rather than
referring them to an outside optometrist in-
creased both access to and use of glasses by
both making it easier for families to obtain
glasses and changing the school culture to
decrease the stigma associated with wearing
glasses.’’;
Whereas Vision To Learn seeks to make
the experience of getting glasses fun for chil-
dren—
(1) by partnering with sports teams, such
as—
(A) the Los Angeles Dodgers;
(B) the Los Angeles Clippers;
(C) the Golden State Warriors;
(D) the Atlanta Hawks;
(E) the Detroit Pistons;
(F) the San Jose Sharks; and
(G) the Baltimore Ravens; and
(2) by having professional athletes partici-
pate in events at schools where children get
glasses;
Whereas the service level of Vision To
Learn has grown an average of 50 percent
every year, bringing critical vision services
to thousands of additional children, with the
ultimate goal that no child in the United
States go to school without the glasses need-
ed for that child to see clearly;
Whereas Vision To Learn is a public-pri-
vate partnership combining funding from
community and corporate foundations and
private donors, reimbursement from Med-
icaid and the Children’s Health Insurance
Program, and State and local matching
funds to support a sustainable program that
will help students for years to come;
Whereas Vision To Learn has dem-
onstrated that the program model developed
and used by Vision To Learn represents a re-
alistic, affordable pathway to eliminating
lack of glasses as an educational barrier to
students nationwide;
Whereas Vision To Learn has collaborated
with partners in the eye-health and edu-
cation sectors who have greatly aided Vision
To Learn in reaching the milestone of help-
ing 200,000 students, including—
(1) Rotary International Clubs;
(2) The Johns Hopkins Wilmer Eye Insti-
tute;
(3) the Essilor Vision Foundation;
(4) Warby Parker;
(5) Helen Keller International ChildSight;
(6) the University of California, Los Ange-
les, Stein Eye Institute;
(7) Project Vision Hawai‘i;
(8) Western University College of Optom-
etry;
(9) Prevent Blindness Northern California;
(10) Classic Optical Laboratories;
(11) Capital Optical;
(12) Klauer Optical;
(13) the California School Nurses Organiza-
tion;
(14) Hawaii Keiki: Healthy & Ready to
Learn;
(15) Conexus;
(16) the Baltimore City Health Depart-
ment;
(17) the Detroit Health Department;
(18) the Kent County Health Department;
(19) the California Teachers Association;
and
(20) school nurses throughout the areas
served by Vision To Learn;
Whereas Vision To Learn has been recog-
nized as a leader in the field—
(1) by the Campaign For Grade-Level Read-
ing, which named Vision To Learn a ‘‘Pace-
setter Program’’ in 2014;
(2) by the White House Initiative on Edu-
cational Excellence for Hispanics, which
named Vision To Learn a ‘‘Bright Spot in
Hispanic Education’’ in 2015;
(3) by the California Teachers Association,
which presented the ‘‘State Gold Award’’ to
Vision To Learn in 2013;
(4) in letters of commendation from—
(A) House Speaker Nancy Pelosi;
(B) Representative Maxine Waters; and
(C) the Ronald Reagan Library; and
(5) in newspaper op-eds by—
(A) Senator Chris Coons;
(B) Delaware Governor Jack Markell;
(C) Richmond, Virginia, Mayor Levar
Stoney;
(D) Long Beach, California, Mayor Rob-
ert Garcia;
(E) Detroit, Michigan, Mayor Mike
Duggan;
(F) Wilmington, Delaware, Mayor Mi-
chael Purzycki; and
(G) former Mississippi Governor Haley
Barbour;
Whereas, according to the American Opto-
metric Association, uncorrected vision con-
ditions affect 1 in every 4 children, yet only
39 percent of students referred to an eye
exam through a routine vision screening ac-
tually end up seeing an eye doctor, and this
discrepancy is far worse in high-poverty
communities of color; and
Whereas addressing the basic eye care
needs of students is an often overlooked but
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.083 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3117
May 23, 2019
critical strategy to improve the educational
attainment of those students: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates Vision To Learn on help-
ing 200,000 students;
(2) recognizes Vision To Learn as a na-
tional leader in providing school-based vi-
sion care and commends the strides the orga-
nization has made in that effort; and
(3) supports the mission of Vision To Learn
to ensure that no child goes without the
glasses needed for that child to succeed in
school and in life.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 223—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF MAY 17, 2019,
AS ‘‘DIPG PEDIATRIC BRAIN
CANCER AWARENESS DAY’’ TO
RAISE AWARENESS OF AND EN-
COURAGE RESEARCH ON DIF-
FUSE INTRINSIC PONTINE
GLIOMA TUMORS AND PEDI-
ATRIC CANCERS IN GENERAL
Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. REED,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, and Mr. CASEY) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 223
Whereas diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma
(referred to in this preamble as ‘‘DIPG’’) tu-
mors regularly affect 200 to 400 children in
the United States each year;
Whereas brain tumors are the leading
cause of cancer-related death among chil-
dren;
Whereas, during childhood, DIPG tumors
are—
(1) the second most common type of malig-
nant brain tumor; and
(2) the leading cause of pediatric brain can-
cer deaths;
Whereas, with respect to a child who is di-
agnosed with a DIPG tumor and receives
treatment for a DIPG tumor, the median
amount of time that the child survives after
diagnosis is only 9 months;
Whereas, with respect to an individual who
is diagnosed with a DIPG tumor, the rate of
survival 5 years after diagnosis is approxi-
mately 2 percent;
Whereas the average age at which a child
is diagnosed with a DIPG tumor is between 5
and 9 years, resulting in a life expectancy ap-
proximately 70 years shorter than the aver-
age life expectancy in the United States; and
Whereas the prognosis for children diag-
nosed with DIPG tumors has not improved
over the past 40 years: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports—
(A) designating May 17, 2019, as ‘‘DIPG Pe-
diatric Brain Cancer Awareness Day’’; and
(B) efforts—
(i) to better understand diffuse intrinsic
pontine glioma tumors;
(ii) to develop effective treatments for dif-
fuse intrinsic pontine glioma tumors; and
(iii) to provide comprehensive care for chil-
dren with diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma
tumors and their families; and
(2) encourages all individuals in the United
States to become more informed about—
(A) diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma tu-
mors;
(B) pediatric brain cancer in general; and
(C) challenges relating to research on pedi-
atric cancers and ways to advance such re-
search.
SENATE RESOLUTION 224—SUP-
PORTING THE GOALS AND
IDEALS OF NATIONAL NURSES
WEEK, TO BE OBSERVED FROM
MAY 6 THROUGH MAY 12, 2019
Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY) submitted the following res-
olution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 224
Whereas, beginning in 1991, National
Nurses Week is celebrated annually from
May 6, also known as ‘‘National Recognition
Day for Nurses’’, through May 12, the birth-
day of Florence Nightingale, the founder of
modern nursing;
Whereas National Nurses Week is a time of
year to reflect on the important contribu-
tions that nurses make to provide safe, high-
quality health care;
Whereas nurses are known to be patient
advocates, acting to protect the lives of indi-
viduals under their care;
Whereas nurses represent the largest single
component of the health care professions,
with an estimated population of 4,000,000 reg-
istered nurses in the United States;
Whereas nurses are leading in the delivery
of quality care in a transformed health care
system that improves patient outcomes and
safety;
Whereas the Future of Nursing report of
the Institute of Medicine has called for the
nursing profession to meet the call for lead-
ership in a team-based delivery model;
Whereas, when nurse staffing levels in-
crease, the risk of patient complications and
lengthy hospital stays decreases, resulting in
cost savings;
Whereas nurses are experienced research-
ers, and the work of nurses encompasses a
wide scope of scientific inquiry, including
clinical research, health systems and out-
comes research, and nursing education re-
search;
Whereas nurses provide care that is sen-
sitive to the regional and community cus-
toms of individuals needing care;
Whereas nurses are well-positioned to pro-
vide leadership to eliminate health care dis-
parities that exist in the United States;
Whereas nurses are the cornerstone of the
public health infrastructure, promoting
healthy lifestyles and educating commu-
nities on disease prevention and health pro-
motion;
Whereas nurses help inform, educate, and
work closely with legislators to improve—
(1) the education, retention, recruitment,
and practice of all nurses; and
(2) the health and safety of the patients for
whom the nurses care;
Whereas there is a need—
(1) to strengthen nursing workforce devel-
opment programs at all levels, including the
number of doctorally prepared faculty mem-
bers; and
(2) to provide education to the nurse re-
search scientists who can develop new nurs-
ing care models to improve the health status
of the diverse population of the United
States;
Whereas nurses touch the lives of the peo-
ple of the United States through every stage
of life; and
Whereas nursing has been voted the most
honest and ethical profession in the United
States: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals and ideals of Na-
tional Nurses Week, as founded by the Amer-
ican Nurses Association;
(2) recognizes the significant contributions
of nurses to the health care system in the
United States; and
(3) encourages the people of the United
States to observe National Nurses Week with
appropriate recognition, ceremonies, activi-
ties, and programs to demonstrate the im-
portance of nurses to the everyday lives of
patients.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 225—SUP-
PORTING THE GOALS OF INTER-
NATIONAL MYALGIC
ENCEPHALOMYELITIS/CHRONIC
FATIGUE SYNDROME AWARE-
NESS DAY
Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. COONS, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
KING, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. SINEMA, Mr.
CASEY, Ms. HARRIS, and Ms. WARREN)
submitted the following resolution;
which was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 225
Whereas the National Academy of Medi-
cine (referred to in this preamble as
‘‘NAM’’), formerly known as the Institute of
Medicine, has found Myalgic
Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syn-
drome (referred to in this preamble as ‘‘ME/
CFS’’) to be ‘‘a serious, chronic, complex,
and systemic disease that frequently and
dramatically limits the activities of affected
patients’’;
Whereas between 836,000 and 2,500,000 indi-
viduals of all ages, races, and sexes in the
United States are believed to be afflicted
with ME/CFS, with millions more afflicted
by ME/CFS worldwide, and the vast majority
of individuals with ME/CFS are undiagnosed
or misdiagnosed;
Whereas ME/CFS is approximately 4 times
more prevalent in women than in men;
Whereas ME/CFS is a chronic disease with
no known cure and leaves 1⁄4 of individuals
with ME/CFS housebound or bedbound for
extended periods of time;
Whereas 50 to 75 percent of individuals
with ME/CFS cannot work or attend school;
Whereas medical expenses and lost produc-
tivity related to ME/CFS cost the economy
of the United States an estimated
$17,000,000,000 to $24,000,000,000 annually;
Whereas the cause of ME/CFS is unknown,
there is no diagnostic test for ME/CFS, and
there is no treatment for ME/CFS that is ap-
proved by the Food and Drug Administra-
tion;
Whereas NAM has noted a ‘‘paucity of re-
search’’ on ME/CFS and that ‘‘more research
is essential’’;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention has called ME/CFS ‘‘Amer-
ica’s Hidden Health Crisis’’;
Whereas individuals with ME/CFS struggle
to find doctors to care for them, and ME/CFS
is included in less than 1⁄3 of medical school
curricula;
Whereas, in recognition of the dearth of re-
search on ME/CFS and the profound impact
that the disease has on individuals with ME/
CFS and their loved ones and caretakers, the
National Institutes of Health (referred to in
this preamble as the ‘‘NIH’’) is ‘‘committed
to unraveling the underlying biologic
cause(s) of ME/CFS as swiftly as possible,
and promoting research that will inform the
development of effective strategies for treat-
ment and prevention of this devastating con-
dition’’;
Whereas, in 2017, 11 Institutes at the NIH
and the Office of the Director of the NIH con-
tributed more than $7,000,000 in grants to as-
sist in establishing Collaborative Research
Centers and a Data Management Coordi-
nating Center to improve the coordination of
ME/CFS research and help accelerate under-
standing of ME/CFS; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.085 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3118 May 23, 2019
Whereas, in 2019, May 12 is recognized as
International ME/CFS Awareness Day: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals of International
Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue
Syndrome Awareness Day;
(2) recognizes and affirms the commitment
of the United States to—
(A) supporting research and medical edu-
cation for Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chron-
ic Fatigue Syndrome; and
(B) promoting awareness among health
professionals and the public about Myalgic
Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syn-
drome; and
(3) recognizes the continued importance
of—
(A) health care professionals and medical
researchers who care for individuals with
Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue
Syndrome; and
(B) those who work to discover the cause
of, and develop and improve diagnosis of,
treatments for, and a cure for, Myalgic
Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syn-
drome.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 226—RECOG-
NIZING NATIONAL FOSTER CARE
MONTH AS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
RAISE AWARENESS ABOUT THE
CHALLENGES OF CHILDREN IN
THE FOSTER CARE SYSTEM, AND
ENCOURAGING CONGRESS TO IM-
PLEMENT POLICY TO IMPROVE
THE LIVES OF CHILDREN IN THE
FOSTER CARE SYSTEM
Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. JONES, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
CASSIDY, Mr. KING, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. CRAPO, Mr.
KAINE, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. ROB-
ERTS, Mr. PETERS, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. CASEY, Ms. ROSEN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mr. ENZI, and Mr. YOUNG) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 226
Whereas National Foster Care Month was
established more than 20 years ago to—
(1) bring foster care issues to the forefront;
(2) highlight the importance of perma-
nency for every child; and
(3) recognize the essential role that foster
parents, social workers, and advocates have
in the lives of children in foster care
throughout the United States;
Whereas all children deserve a safe, loving,
and permanent home;
Whereas the primary goal of the foster
care system is to ensure the safety and well-
being of children while working to provide a
safe, loving, and permanent home for each
child;
Whereas there are approximately 443,000
children living in foster care;
Whereas there were approximately 269,690
youth that entered the foster care system in
2017, while over 69,000 youth were eligible
and awaiting adoption at the end of 2017;
Whereas the number of children living in
foster care and entering foster care has in-
creased dramatically in recent years;
Whereas over 96,000 children entered foster
care in 2017 due to parental drug abuse;
Whereas children of color are more likely
to stay in the foster care system for longer
periods of time and are less likely to be re-
united with their biological families;
Whereas foster parents are the front-line
caregivers for children who cannot safely re-
main with their biological parents and pro-
vide physical care, emotional support, edu-
cation and advocacy, and are the largest sin-
gle source of families providing permanent
homes for children leaving foster care to
adoption;
Whereas children in foster care who are
placed with relatives, compared to children
placed with nonrelatives, have more sta-
bility, including fewer changes in place-
ments, have more positive perceptions of
their placements, are more likely to be
placed with their siblings, and demonstrate
fewer behavioral problems;
Whereas some relative caregivers receive
less financial assistance and support services
than do foster caregivers;
Whereas an increased emphasis on preven-
tion and reunification services is necessary
to reduce the number of children that are
forced to remain in the foster care system;
Whereas almost 20,000 youth ‘‘aged out’’ of
foster care in 2017 without a legal permanent
connection to an adult or family;
Whereas children who age out of foster
care lack the security and support of a bio-
logical or adoptive family and frequently
struggle to secure affordable housing, obtain
health insurance, pursue higher education,
and acquire adequate employment;
Whereas foster care is intended to be a
temporary placement, but children remain
in the foster care system for an average of 20
months;
Whereas 35 percent of children in foster
care experience more than 2 placements
while in care, which often leads to disruption
of routines and the need to change schools
and move away from siblings, extended fami-
lies, and familiar surroundings;
Whereas youth in foster care are much
more likely to face educational instability
with 34 percent of foster youth experiencing
5 or more school changes by the age of 18;
Whereas children entering foster care often
confront the widespread misperception that
children in foster care are disruptive, unruly,
and dangerous, even though placement in
foster care is based on the actions of a par-
ent or guardian, not the child;
Whereas 30 percent of children in foster
care are taking at least 1 anti-psychotic
medication, and 34 percent of these children
are not receiving adequate treatment plan-
ning or medication monitoring;
Whereas, due to heavy caseloads and lim-
ited resources, the average turnover rate for
a child welfare worker is 30 percent;
Whereas States, localities, and commu-
nities should be encouraged to invest re-
sources in preventative and reunification
services and postpermanency programs to
ensure that more children in foster care are
provided with safe, loving, and permanent
placements;
Whereas, in 2018, Congress passed the Fam-
ily First Prevention Services Act, which pro-
vided new investments in prevention and
family reunification services to help more
families stay together and ensure more chil-
dren are in safe, loving, and permanent
homes;
Whereas Federal legislation over the past 3
decades, including the Adoption Assistance
and Child Welfare Act of 1980 (Public Law 96–
272), the Adoption and Safe Families Act of
1997 (Public Law 105–89), the Fostering Con-
nections to Success and Increasing Adop-
tions Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–351), the
Child and Family Services Improvement and
Innovation Act (Public Law 112–34), and the
Preventing Sex Trafficking and Strength-
ening Families Act (Public Law 113–183) pro-
vided new investments and services to im-
prove the outcomes of children in the foster
care system;
Whereas May 2019 is an appropriate month
to designate as National Foster Care Month
to provide an opportunity to acknowledge
the accomplishments of the child-welfare
workforce, foster parents, advocacy commu-
nity, and mentors for their dedication, ac-
complishments, and positive impact they
have on the lives of children; and
Whereas much remains to be done to en-
sure that all children have a safe, loving,
nurturing, and permanent family, regardless
of age or special needs: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the designation of National
Foster Care Month;
(2) recognizes National Foster Care Month
as an opportunity to raise awareness about
the challenges that children face in the fos-
ter care system;
(3) encourages Congress to implement pol-
icy to improve the lives of children in the
foster care system;
(4) acknowledges the unique needs of chil-
dren in the foster care system;
(5) recognizes foster youth throughout the
United States for their ongoing tenacity,
courage, and resilience while facing life chal-
lenges;
(6) acknowledges the exceptional alumni of
the foster care system who serve as advo-
cates and role models for youth who remain
in care;
(7) honors the commitment and dedication
of the individuals who work tirelessly to pro-
vide assistance and services to children in
the foster care system;
(8) supports the designation of May 31, 2019,
as National Foster Parent Appreciation Day;
(9) recognizes National Foster Parent Ap-
preciation Day as an opportunity to recog-
nize the efforts of foster parents to provide
safe and loving care for children in need and
raise awareness about the increasing need
for foster parents to serve in their commu-
nities; and
(10) reaffirms the need to continue working
to improve the outcomes of all children in
the foster care system through parts B and E
of title IV of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 601 et seq.) and other programs de-
signed to—
(A) support vulnerable families;
(B) invest in prevention and reunification
services;
(C) promote adoption in cases where reuni-
fication is not in the best interests of the
child;
(D) adequately serve those children
brought into the foster care system; and
(E) facilitate the successful transition into
adulthood for children that ‘‘age out’’ of the
foster care system.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 250. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. SHELBY
(for himself and Mr. LEAHY)) proposed an
amendment to the bill H.R. 2157, making
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 250. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
SHELBY (for himself and Mr. LEAHY))
proposed an amendment to the bill
H.R. 2157, making supplemental appro-
priations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses.
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
The following sums in this Act are appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.093 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3119
May 23, 2019
not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $3,005,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for
necessary expenses related to losses of crops
(including milk, on-farm stored commod-
ities, crops prevented from planting in 2019,
and harvested adulterated wine grapes),
trees, bushes, and vines, as a consequence of
Hurricanes Michael and Florence, other hur-
ricanes, floods, tornadoes, typhoons, vol-
canic activity, snowstorms, and wildfires oc-
curring in calendar years 2018 and 2019 under
such terms and conditions as determined by
the Secretary: Provided, That the Secretary
may provide assistance for such losses in the
form of block grants to eligible states and
territories and such assistance may include
compensation to producers, as determined by
the Secretary, for forest restoration and
poultry and livestock losses: Provided further,
That of the amounts provided under this
heading, tree assistance payments may be
made under section 1501(e) of the Agricul-
tural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9081(e)) to eligible
orchardists or nursery tree growers (as de-
fined in such section) of pecan trees with a
tree mortality rate that exceeds 7.5 percent
(adjusted for normal mortality) and is less
than 15 percent (adjusted for normal mor-
tality), to be available until expended, for
losses incurred during the period beginning
January 1, 2018, and ending December 31,
2018: Provided further, That in the case of pro-
ducers impacted by volcanic activity that re-
sulted in the loss of crop land, or access to
crop land, the Secretary shall consider all
measures available, as appropriate, to bring
replacement land into production: Provided
further, That of the amounts provided under
this heading, not more than $7,000,000 shall
be available to make payments to agricul-
tural producers whose Whole Farm Revenue
Protection indemnity payments were re-
duced following 2018 crop year losses due to
assistance received through state-legislated
agriculture disaster assistance programs:
Provided further, That the total amount of
payments received under this heading and
applicable policies of crop insurance under
the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501
et seq.) or the Noninsured Crop Disaster As-
sistance Program (NAP) under section 196 of
the Federal Agriculture Improvement and
Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) shall not
exceed 90 percent of the loss as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That the
total amount of payments received under
this heading for producers who did not ob-
tain a policy or plan of insurance for an in-
surable commodity for the applicable crop
year under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop incurring the
losses or did not file the required paperwork
and pay the service fee by the applicable
State filing deadline for a noninsurable com-
modity for the applicable crop year under
NAP for the crop incurring the losses shall
not exceed 70 percent of the loss as deter-
mined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That in the case of a crop under this heading
for which the Federal Crop Insurance Cor-
poration offers a revenue insurance policy
under section 508 of the Federal Crop Insur-
ance Act (7 U.S.C. 1508), the Secretary shall
use the greater of the projected price or the
harvest price for such crop to determine the
expected value of such crop: Provided further,
That producers receiving payments under
this heading, as determined by the Sec-
retary, shall be required to purchase crop in-
surance where crop insurance is available for
the next two available crop years, excluding
tree insurance policies, and producers receiv-
ing payments under this heading shall be re-
quired to purchase coverage under NAP
where crop insurance is not available in the
next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Congress specifying the type,
amount, and method of such assistance by
state and territory: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emer-
gency Forest Restoration Program’’, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, tor-
nadoes and floods occurring in calendar year
2019, and other natural disasters, $480,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emer-
gency Conservation Program’’, for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Michael and Florence and wildfires
occurring in calendar year 2018, tornadoes
and floods occurring in calendar year 2019,
and other natural disasters, $558,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed
and Flood Prevention Operations’’, for nec-
essary expenses for the Emergency Water-
shed Protection Program related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, tornadoes and floods occurring in cal-
endar year 2019, and other natural disasters,
$435,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities pro-
grams as authorized by section 306 and de-
scribed in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, tornadoes and floods occurring in cal-
endar year 2019, and other natural disasters,
$150,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to the
funds made available under this heading:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 101. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of the Food and Nutri-
tion Act of 2008, $25,200,000 shall be available
for the Secretary to provide a grant to the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands for disaster nutrition assistance in re-
sponse to the Presidentially declared major
disasters and emergencies: Provided, That
funds made available to the Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Islands under this
section shall remain available for obligation
by the Commonwealth until September 30,
2020: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 102. For purposes of administering
title I of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
123), losses to agricultural producers result-
ing from hurricanes shall also include losses
incurred from Tropical Storm Cindy, losses
of peach and blueberry crops in calendar
year 2017 due to extreme cold, and blueberry
productivity losses in calendar year 2018 due
to extreme cold and hurricane damage in
calendar year 2017: Provided, That the
amounts provided by this section are des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this section that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. (a)(1) Except as provided in para-
graph (2), a person or legal entity is not eli-
gible to receive a payment under the Market
Facilitation Program established pursuant
to the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average
adjusted gross income of such person or legal
entity is greater than $900,000.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a per-
son or legal entity if at least 75 percent of
the adjusted gross income of such person or
legal entity is derived from farming, ranch-
ing, or forestry related activities.
(b) In this section, the term ‘‘average ad-
justed gross income’’ has the meaning given
the term defined in section 760.1502 of title 7
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
July 18, 2018).
(c) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 104. In addition to other amounts
made available by section 309 of division A of
the Additional Supplemental Appropriations
for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2017
(Public Law 115–72; 131 Stat. 1229), there is
appropriated to the Secretary, out of any
moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appro-
priated, for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2019, $600,000,000 to provide a grant to the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for disaster
nutrition assistance in response to a major
disaster or emergency designated by the
President under the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided, That the
funds made available to the Commonwealth
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.099 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3120 May 23, 2019
of Puerto Rico under this section shall re-
main available for obligation by the Com-
monwealth until September 30, 2020, and
shall be in addition to funds otherwise made
available: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(i)).
SEC. 105. There is hereby appropriated
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for the Secretary of Agri-
culture to conduct an independent study, in-
cluding a survey of participants, to compare
the impact of the additional benefits pro-
vided by section 309 of Public Law 115–72 to
the food insecurity, health status, and well-
being of low-income residents in Puerto Rico
without such additional benefits: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
SEC. 106. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of the Food and Nutri-
tion Act of 2008, $18,000,000 shall be available
for the Secretary to provide a grant to
American Samoa for disaster nutrition as-
sistance in response to the presidentially de-
clared major disasters and emergencies: Pro-
vided, That funds made available to the terri-
tory under this section shall remain avail-
able for obligation by the territory until
September 30, 2020: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
SEC. 107. Beginning not later than the 2020
reinsurance year, the Federal Crop Insurance
Corporation shall offer coverage under the
wholefarm revenue protection insurance pol-
icy (or a successor policy or plan of insur-
ance) for hemp (as defined in section 297A of
the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7
U.S.C. 1639o)): Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 108. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, any rural community impacted
by major declared disaster DR–4407 may have
the governor in the affected state, or the
governor’s designee, certify the area’s popu-
lation as a rural area with respect to eligi-
bility for loans, grants, and technical assist-
ance under rural development programs
funded by the Department of Agriculture
until data from the 2020 United States Cen-
sus is available: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Pursuant to section 703 of the Public
Works and Economic Development Act (42
U.S.C. 3233), for an additional amount for
‘‘Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’ for necessary expenses related to
flood mitigation, disaster relief, long-term
recovery, and restoration of infrastructure
in areas that received a major disaster des-
ignation as a result of Hurricanes Florence,
Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic erup-
tions, earthquakes, and other natural disas-
ters occurring in calendar year 2018, and tor-
nadoes and floods occurring in calendar year
2019 under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), $600,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That within the
amount appropriated, up to 2 percent of
funds may be transferred to the ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ account for administration
and oversight activities: Provided further,
That within the amount appropriated,
$1,000,000 shall be transferred to the ‘‘Office
of Inspector General’’ account for carrying
out investigations and audits related to the
funding provided under this heading.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and of wildfires, $120,570,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, as follows:
(1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of
observing assets, real property, and equip-
ment;
(2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment
and removal;
(3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and
geodesy services;
(4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane in-
tensity forecasting, including through de-
ployment of unmanned ocean observing plat-
forms and enhanced data assimilation; (b)
flood prediction, forecasting, and mitigation
capabilities; and (c) wildfire prediction, de-
tection, and forecasting; and
(5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as
authorized under section 906(c) of division O
of Public Law 114–113:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985: Provided further,
That the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration shall submit a spending plan
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate for
funding provided under subsection (4) of this
heading within 45 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Acquisition and Construction’’,
$25,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for improvements to oper-
ational and research weather supercom-
puting infrastructure and satellite ground
services used for hurricane intensity and
track prediction; flood prediction, fore-
casting, and mitigation; and wildfire pre-
diction, detection, and forecasting: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion shall submit a spending plan to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 45
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
FISHERY DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fishery
Disaster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses
associated with the mitigation of fishery dis-
asters, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That funds shall be used
for mitigating the effects of commercial fish-
ery failures and fishery resource disasters
declared by the Secretary of Commerce, in-
cluding those declared by the Secretary to be
a direct result of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael and Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence
and Michael and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Buildings
and Facilities’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoon Yutu,
$28,400,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payment to
the Legal Services Corporation’’ to carry out
the purposes of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act by providing for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence, Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu
and Mangkhut, calendar year 2018 wildfires,
volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes, and
calendar year 2019 tornadoes and floods,
$15,000,000: Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That none of the funds appro-
priated in this Act to the Legal Services Cor-
poration shall be expended for any purpose
prohibited or limited by, or contrary to any
of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504,
505, and 506 of Public Law 105–119, and all
funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal
Services Corporation shall be subject to the
same terms and conditions set forth in such
sections, except that all references in sec-
tions 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be
deemed to refer instead to 2018 and 2019, re-
spectively, and except that sections 501 and
503 of Public Law 104–134 (referenced by Pub-
lic Law 105–119) shall not apply to the
amount made available under this heading:
Provided further, That, for the purposes of
this Act, the Legal Services Corporation
shall be considered an agency of the United
States Government.
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Marine Corps’’,
$381,000,000, for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and
Florence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.099 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3121
May 23, 2019
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $670,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and floods occurring in calendar year
2019: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 301. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds made available under each
heading in this title shall only be used for
the purposes specifically described under
that heading.
TITLE IV
CORPS OF ENGINEERS—CIVIL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
INVESTIGATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Investiga-
tions’’ for necessary expenses related to the
completion, or initiation and completion, of
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, studies which are currently
authorized or which are authorized after the
date of enactment of this Act, to reduce risk
from future floods and hurricanes, at full
Federal expense, $35,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for high priority studies
of projects in States and insular areas that
were impacted by Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, and Tropical Storm Gita: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, including
new studies selected to be initiated using
funds provided under this heading, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses, $740,000,000, to
remain available until expended, to con-
struct flood and storm damage reduction, in-
cluding shore protection, projects which are
currently authorized or which are authorized
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, projects which have signed
Chief’s Reports as of the date of enactment
of this Act or which are studied using funds
provided under the heading ‘‘Investigations’’
if the Secretary determines such projects to
be technically feasible, economically justi-
fied, and environmentally acceptable, in
States and insular areas that were impacted
by Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and
Tropical Storm Gita: Provided, That projects
receiving funds provided under the first pro-
viso in ‘‘Title IV—Corps of Engineers—
Civil—Department of the Army—Construc-
tion’’ in Public Law 115–123 shall not be eligi-
ble for funding provided under this heading:
Provided further, That for projects receiving
funds provided under this heading, the provi-
sions of Section 902 of the Water Resources
Development Act of 1986 shall not apply to
these funds: Provided further, That the com-
pletion of ongoing construction projects re-
ceiving funds provided under this heading
shall be at full Federal expense with respect
to such funds: Provided further, That using
funds provided under this heading, the non-
Federal cash contribution for projects other
than ongoing construction projects shall be
financed in accordance with the provisions of
section 103(k) of Public Law 99–662 over a pe-
riod of 30 years from the date of completion
of the project or separable element: Provided
further, That up to $25,000,000 of the funds
made available under this heading shall be
used for continuing authorities projects to
reduce the risk of flooding and storm dam-
age: Provided further, That any projects using
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be initiated only after non-Federal interests
have entered into binding agreements with
the Secretary requiring, where applicable,
the non-Federal interests to pay 100 percent
of the operation, maintenance, repair, re-
placement, and rehabilitation costs of the
project and to hold and save the United
States free from damages due to the con-
struction or operation and maintenance of
the project, except for damages due to the
fault or negligence of the United States or
its contractors: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That the Assistant
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall
provide a monthly report directly to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate detailing
the allocation and obligation of these funds,
beginning not later than 60 days after the
date of enactment of this Act.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND TRIBUTARIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Mississippi
River and Tributaries’’ for necessary ex-
penses to address emergency situations at
Corps of Engineers projects and rehabilitate
and repair damages to Corps of Engineers
projects, caused by natural disasters,
$575,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance’’ for necessary expenses to
dredge Federal navigation projects in re-
sponse to, and repair damages to Corps of
Engineers Federal projects caused by, nat-
ural disasters, $908,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which such sums as
are necessary to cover the Federal share of
eligible operation and maintenance costs for
coastal harbors and channels, and for inland
harbors shall be derived from the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate de-
tailing the allocation and obligation of these
funds, beginning not later than 60 days after
the date of enactment of this Act.
FLOOD CONTROL AND COASTAL EMERGENCIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Flood Con-
trol and Coastal Emergencies’’, as authorized
by section 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 (33
U.S.C. 701n), for necessary expenses to pre-
pare for flood, hurricane and other natural
disasters and support emergency operations,
repairs, and other activities in response to
such disasters, as authorized by law,
$1,000,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That funding utilized for
authorized shore protection projects shall re-
store such projects to the full project profile
at full Federal expense: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate detailing the
allocation and obligation of these funds, be-
ginning not later than 60 days after the date
of enactment of this Act.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Central
Utah Project Completion Account’’, $350,000,
to be deposited into the Utah Reclamation
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use
by the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and
Conservation Commission, to remain avail-
able until expended, for expenses necessary
in carrying out fire remediation activities
related to wildfires in 2018: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Water and
Related Resources’’, $15,500,000, to remain
available until expended, for fire remedi-
ation and suppression emergency assistance
related to wildfires in 2017 and 2018: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
TITLE V
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
REAL PROPERTY ACTIVITIES
FEDERAL BUILDINGS FUND
For an additional amount, to be deposited
in the Federal Buildings Fund, $91,200,000, to
remain available until expended, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricane Florence for repair and alter-
ation of buildings under the custody and con-
trol of the Administrator of General Serv-
ices, and real property management and re-
lated activities not otherwise provided for:
Provided, That such amount may be used to
reimburse the Fund for obligations incurred
for this purpose prior to the date of the en-
actment of this Act: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael,
Florence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon,
and Typhoon Mangkhut, $48,977,000; of which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.099 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3122 May 23, 2019
$46,977,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and of which $2,000,000 shall
remain available until September 30, 2023, for
environmental compliance and restoration:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Construction, and Improvements’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael, Florence,
and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, $476,755,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 601. In implementing section 20601 of
Public Law 115–123, the Administrator shall
include the costs associated with addressing
pre-disaster condition, undamaged compo-
nents, codes and standards, and industry
standards in the cost of repair when calcu-
lating the percentage in section 206.226(f) of
title 44, Code of Federal Regulations: Pro-
vided, That amounts repurposed under this
section that were previously designated by
the Congress, respectively, as an emergency
requirement or as being for disaster relief
pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act are designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985 or as being for dis-
aster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 602. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds made available under each
heading in this title shall only be used for
the purposes specifically described under
that heading.
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, and flooding associated with
major declared disaster DR–4365, and cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, $82,400,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That of this amount $50,000,000 shall be used
to restore and rebuild national wildlife ref-
uges and increase the resiliency and capacity
of coastal habitat and infrastructure to
withstand storms and reduce the amount of
damage caused by such storms: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Historic
Preservation Fund’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu,
$50,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, including costs to States and
territories necessary to complete compliance
activities required by section 306108 of title
54, United States Code (formerly section 106
of the National Historic Preservation Act)
and costs needed to administer the program:
Provided, That grants shall only be available
for areas that have received a major disaster
declaration pursuant to the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided fur-
ther, That individual grants shall not be sub-
ject to a non-Federal matching requirement:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut, and
calendar year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes,
and volcanic eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Surveys, In-
vestigations, and Research’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and calendar
year 2018 wildfires, earthquake damage asso-
ciated with emergency declaration EM–3410,
and in those areas impacted by a major dis-
aster declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) with re-
spect to calendar year 2018 wildfires or vol-
canic eruptions, $98,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of this
amount, $72,310,000 is for costs related to the
repair and replacement of equipment and fa-
cilities damaged by disasters in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 90 days
after enactment of this Act, the Survey shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appro-
priations that describes the potential op-
tions to replace the facility damaged by the
2018 volcano disaster along with cost esti-
mates and a description of how the Survey
will provide direct access for monitoring vol-
canic activity and the potential threat to at-
risk communities: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Technical
Assistance’’ for financial management ex-
penses related to the consequences of Ty-
phoon Yutu, $2,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of major disasters de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Science and
Technology’’ for necessary expenses related
to improving preparedness of the water sec-
tor, $600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Leaking
Underground Storage Tank Fund’’ for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, and Typhoon
Yutu, $1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For additional amounts for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael and calendar
year 2018 earthquakes for the hazardous
waste financial assistance grants program,
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended; for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Typhoon Yutu for the haz-
ardous waste financial assistance grants pro-
gram and for other solid waste management
activities, $56,000,000, to remain available
until expended, provided that none of these
funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of
the Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants
under section 106 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, to address impacts of
Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael, Ty-
phoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires,
notwithstanding subsections (b), (e), and (f),
of such section: Provided, That such amounts
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’, $349,400,000 to re-
main available until expended, of which
$53,300,000 shall be for capitalization grants
for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds
under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, and of which $296,100,000 shall be
for capitalization grants under section 1452
of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, funds appropriated herein shall
be provided to States or Territories in EPA
Regions 4, 9, and 10 in amounts determined
by the Administrator for wastewater treat-
ment works and drinking water facilities im-
pacted by Hurricanes Florence and Michael,
Typhoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018
wildfires and earthquakes: Provided further,
That notwithstanding the requirements of
section 603(i) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act and section 1452(d) of the Safe
Drinking Water Act, for the funds appro-
priated herein, each State shall use not less
than 20 percent but not more than 30 percent
of the amount of its capitalization grants to
provide additional subsidization to eligible
recipients in the form of forgiveness of prin-
cipal, negative interest loans or grants or
any combination of these: Provided further,
That the Administrator shall retain
$10,400,000 of the funds appropriated herein
for grants for drinking water facilities and
waste water treatment plants impacted by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.099 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3123
May 23, 2019
Typhoon Yutu: Provided further, That the
funds appropriated herein shall be used for
eligible projects whose purpose is to reduce
flood or fire damage risk and vulnerability
or to enhance resiliency to rapid hydrologic
change or natural disaster at treatment
works as defined by section 212 of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act or any eli-
gible facilities under section 1452 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act, and for other eligible
tasks at such treatment works or facilities
necessary to further such purposes: Provided
further, That the Administrator of the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency may retain up
to $1,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein
for management and oversight: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Forest and
Rangeland Research’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended for the forest inventory and
analysis program: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Private Forestry’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $12,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For an additional amount for ‘‘National
Forest System’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $84,960,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this
amount $21,000,000 shall be used for haz-
ardous fuels management activities: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Capital Im-
provement and Maintenance’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and the cal-
endar year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Wildland
Fire Management’’, $720,271,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022, for ur-
gent wildland fire suppression operations:
Provided, That such funds shall be solely
available to be transferred to and merged
with other appropriations accounts from
which funds were previously transferred for
wildland fire suppression in fiscal year 2018
to fully repay those amounts: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences’’
for necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities set forth in section 311(a) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization
Act of 1986 related to the consequences of
major disasters declared pursuant to the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)
in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 701. Not later than 45 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the agencies
receiving funds appropriated by this title
shall provide a detailed operating plan of an-
ticipated uses of funds made available in this
title by State and Territory, and by pro-
gram, project, and activity, to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations: Provided, That no
such funds shall be obligated before the oper-
ating plans are provided to the Committees:
Provided further, That such plans shall be up-
dated, including obligations to date, and sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
every 60 days until all such funds are ex-
pended.
TITLE VIII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Training
and Employment Services’’, $50,000,000, for
the dislocated workers assistance national
reserve for necessary expenses directly re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, wildfires and earth-
quakes occurring in calendar year 2018, and
tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar
year 2019 (referred to under this heading as
‘‘covered disaster or emergency’’), to remain
available through September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Labor may
transfer up to $1,000,000 of such funds to any
other Department of Labor account for re-
construction and recovery needs, including
worker protection activities: Provided fur-
ther, That these sums may be used to replace
grant funds previously obligated to the im-
pacted areas: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, up to $500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be transferred
to ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’ for over-
sight of activities responding to such covered
disaster or emergency: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
PAYMENTS TO STATES FOR THE CHILD CARE AND
DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payments
to States for the Child Care and Develop-
ment Block Grant’’, $30,000,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2021, for
necessary expenses directly related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, and wildfires and earthquakes occur-
ring in calendar year 2018 and tornadoes and
floods occurring in calendar year 2019 in
those areas for which a major disaster or
emergency has been declared under section
401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided, That the Sec-
retary shall allocate such funds based on as-
sessed need notwithstanding sections 658J
and 658O of the Child Care and Development
Block Grant Act of 1990: Provided further,
That such funds may be used for costs of ren-
ovating, repairing, or rebuilding child care
facilities without regard to section 658F(b) or
658G of such Act and with amounts allocated
for such purposes excluded from the calcula-
tion of percentages under subsection
658E(c)(3) of such Act: Provided further, That
notwithstanding section 658J(c) of such Act,
funds allotted to a State and used for ren-
ovating, repairing, or rebuilding child care
facilities may be obligated by the State in
that fiscal year or the succeeding three fiscal
years: Provided further, That Federal interest
provisions will not apply to the renovation
or rebuilding of privately-owned family child
care homes, and the Secretary shall develop
parameters on the use of funds for family
child care homes: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall not retain Federal interest
after a period of 10 years in any facility ren-
ovated, repaired, or rebuilt with funds appro-
priated under this paragraph: Provided fur-
ther, That funds appropriated in this para-
graph shall not be available for costs that
are reimbursed by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, under a contract for
insurance, or by self-insurance: Provided fur-
ther, That obligations incurred for the pur-
poses provided herein prior to the date of en-
actment of this Act may be charged to funds
appropriated under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children
and Families Services Programs’’, $90,000,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2021, for necessary expenses directly related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence
and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Ty-
phoon Yutu, and wildfires and earthquakes
occurring in calendar year 2018 and torna-
does and floods occurring in calendar year
2019 in those areas for which a major disaster
or emergency has been declared under sec-
tion 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided, That
$55,000,000 shall be for Head Start programs,
including making payments under the Head
Start Act: Provided further, That none of
funds provided in the previous proviso shall
be included in the calculation of the ‘‘base
grant’’ in subsequent fiscal years, as such
term is defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A),
641A(h)(1)(B), or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start
Act: Provided further, That funds provided in
the second previous proviso are not subject
to the allocation requirements of section
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.099 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3124 May 23, 2019
640(a) of the Head Start Act: Provided further,
That $5,000,000 shall be for payments to
States, territories, and tribes for activities
authorized under subpart 1 of part B of title
IV of the Social Security Act, with such
funds allocated based on assessed need not-
withstanding section 423 of such Act and
paid without regard to percentage limita-
tions in subsections (a) or (e) in section 424
of such Act: Provided further, That $25,000,000
shall be for payments to States, territories,
and tribes authorized under the Community
Services Block Grant Act, with such funds
allocated based on assessed need notwith-
standing sections 674(b), 675A, and 675B of
such Act: Provided further, That notwith-
standing section 676(b)(8) of the Community
Services Block Grant Act, each State, terri-
tory, or tribe may allocate funds to eligible
entities based on assessed need: Provided fur-
ther, That funds appropriated in this para-
graph shall not be available for costs that
are reimbursed by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, under a contract for
insurance, or by self-insurance: Provided fur-
ther, That up to $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, shall be available for
Federal administrative expenses: Provided
further, That obligations incurred for the
purposes provided herein prior to the date of
enactment of this Act may be charged to
funds appropriated under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
EMERGENCY FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Health and Social Services Emergency
Fund’’, $201,000,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2020, for necessary ex-
penses directly related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and
wildfires and earthquakes occurring in cal-
endar year 2018 and tornadoes and floods oc-
curring in calendar year 2019 in those areas
for which a major disaster or emergency has
been declared under section 401 or 501 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191)
(referred to under this heading as ‘‘covered
disaster or emergency’’), including activities
authorized under section 319(a) of the Public
Health Service Act (referred to in this Act as
the ‘‘PHS Act’’): Provided, That of the
amount provided, $80,000,000 shall be trans-
ferred to ‘‘Health Resources and Services Ad-
ministration—Primary Health Care’’ for ex-
penses directly related to a covered disaster
or emergency for disaster response and re-
covery, for the Health Centers Program
under section 330 of the PHS Act, including
alteration, renovation, construction, equip-
ment, and other capital improvement costs
as necessary to meet the needs of areas af-
fected by a covered disaster or emergency:
Provided further, That the time limitation in
section 330(e)(3) of the PHS Act shall not
apply to funds made available under the pre-
ceding proviso: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, not less than $20,000,000
shall be transferred to ‘‘Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention—CDC-Wide Activi-
ties and Program Support’’ for response, re-
covery, mitigation, and other expenses di-
rectly related to a covered disaster or emer-
gency: Provided further, That of the amount
provided, not less than $100,000,000 shall be
transferred to ‘‘Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration—Health
Surveillance and Program Support’’ for
grants, contracts, and cooperative agree-
ments for behavioral health treatment,
treatment of substance use disorders, crisis
counseling, and other related helplines, and
for other similar programs to provide sup-
port to individuals impacted by a covered
disaster or emergency: Provided further, That
of the amount provided, up to $1,000,000, to
remain available until expended, shall be
transferred to ‘‘Office of the Secretary—Of-
fice of Inspector General’’ for oversight of
activities responding to such covered disas-
ters or emergencies: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
HURRICANE EDUCATION RECOVERY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Hurricane
Education Recovery’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, and wildfires, earth-
quakes, and volcanic eruptions occurring in
calendar year 2018 and tornadoes and floods
occurring in calendar year 2019 in those
areas for which a major disaster or emer-
gency has been declared under section 401 or
501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170 and 5191) (referred to under this heading
as ‘‘covered disaster or emergency’’),
$165,000,000, to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for assisting in meeting the
educational needs of individuals affected by
a covered disaster or emergency: Provided,
That such assistance may be provided
through any of the programs authorized
under this heading in title VIII of subdivi-
sion 1 of division B of Public Law 115–123 (as
amended by Public Law 115–141), as deter-
mined by the Secretary of Education, and
subject to the terms and conditions that ap-
plied to those programs, except that ref-
erences to dates and school years in Public
Law 115–123 shall be deemed to be the cor-
responding dates and school years for the
covered disaster or emergency: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary of Education may
determine the amounts to be used for each
such program and shall notify the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate of these
amounts not later than 7 days prior to obli-
gation: Provided further, That $2,000,000 of the
funds made available under this heading, to
remain available until expended, shall be
transferred to the Office of the Inspector
General of the Department of Education for
oversight of activities supported with funds
appropriated under this heading, and up to
$1,000,000 of the funds made available under
this heading shall be for program adminis-
tration: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 801. Not later than 30 days after enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretaries of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Education
shall provide a detailed spend plan of antici-
pated uses of funds made available in this
title, including estimated personnel and ad-
ministrative costs, to the Committees on Ap-
propriations: Provided, That such plans shall
be updated and submitted to the Committees
on Appropriations every 60 days until all
funds are expended or expire.
SEC. 802. (a) Section 1108(g)(5) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1308(g)(5)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and
(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘(E), and (F)’’;
(2) in subparagraph (C), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by striking ‘‘and (E)’’ and
inserting ‘‘and (F)’’;
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as
subparagraph (F);
(4) by inserting after subparagraph (D), the
following:
‘‘(E) Subject to subparagraph (F), for the
period beginning January 1, 2019, and ending
September 30, 2019, the amount of the in-
crease otherwise provided under subpara-
graph (A) for the Northern Mariana Islands
shall be further increased by $36,000,000.’’;
and
(5) in subparagraph (F) (as redesignated by
paragraph (3) of this section)—
(A) by striking ‘‘title XIX, during’’ and in-
serting ‘‘title XIX—
‘‘(i) during’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘and (D)’’ and inserting ‘‘,
(D), and (E)’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘and the Virgin Islands’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘, the
Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Is-
lands’’;
(D) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(E) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) for the period beginning January 1,
2019, and ending September 30, 2019, with re-
spect to payments to Guam and American
Samoa from the additional funds provided
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall
increase the Federal medical assistance per-
centage or other rate that would otherwise
apply to such payments to 100 percent.’’; and
(6) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(G) Not later than September 30, 2019,
Guam and American Samoa shall each sub-
mit a plan to the Secretary outlining the
steps each such territory shall take to col-
lect and report reliable data to the Trans-
formed Medicaid Statistical Information
System (T–MSIS) (or a successor system).’’.
(b) The amounts provided by the amend-
ments made by subsection (a) are designated
by the Congress as being for an emergency
requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IX
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, $10,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for audits and investiga-
tions related to Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut,
the calendar year 2018 wildfires, earth-
quakes, and volcano eruptions, and other dis-
asters declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided,
That, not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Government Ac-
countability Office shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate a spend plan
specifying funding estimates for audits and
investigations of any such declared disasters
occurring in 2018 and identifying funding es-
timates or carryover balances, if any, that
may be available for audits and investiga-
tions of any other such declared disasters:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE
CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps’’,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.099 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3125
May 23, 2019
$600,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for planning and design, and
construction expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael on Navy and Marine Corps installa-
tions: Provided, That none of the funds shall
be available for obligation until the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate receive a master
plan for the installations: Provided further,
That, not later than 60 days after enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, or his
designee, shall submit to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate a detailed expenditure
plan for funds provided under this heading:
Provided further, That such funds may be ob-
ligated or expended for planning and design
and military construction projects not oth-
erwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Air Force’’, $1,000,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2023, for
planning and design, and construction ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
cane Michael and floods occurring in cal-
endar year 2019: Provided, That none of the
funds shall be available for obligation until
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
ceive a basing plan and future mission re-
quirements for installations significantly
damaged by Hurricane Michael: Provided fur-
ther, That, not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air
Force, or his designee, shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a detailed
expenditure plan for funds provided under
this heading: Provided further, That such
funds may be obligated or expended for plan-
ning and design and military construction
projects not otherwise authorized by law:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Army National Guard’’,
$42,400,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive form 1391 for each specific request:
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act, the Director of
the Army National Guard, or his designee,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan
for funds provided under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may be obli-
gated or expended for planning and design
and military construction projects not oth-
erwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAL FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Medical Fa-
cilities’’, $3,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu: Provided, That the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, upon determina-
tion that such action is necessary to address
needs as a result of the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu, may transfer such
funds to any discretionary account of the
Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided fur-
ther, That before a transfer may take place,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit notice thereof to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided further, That none
of these funds shall be available for obliga-
tion until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
submits to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate a detailed expenditure plan for
funds provided under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1001. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, funds made available under
each heading within the ‘‘Department of De-
fense’’ in this title shall only be used for the
purposes specifically described under that
heading.
TITLE XI
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RELIEF
PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Transportation Emergency Relief Program’’
as authorized under section 5324 of title 49,
United States Code, $10,542,000 to remain
available until expended, for transit systems
affected by major declared disasters occur-
ring in calendar year 2018: Provided, That not
more than three-quarters of 1 percent of the
funds for public transportation emergency
relief shall be available for administrative
expenses and ongoing program management
oversight as authorized under sections 5334
and 5338(f)(2) of such title and shall be in ad-
dition to any other appropriations for such
purpose: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
Of the amounts made available for ‘‘Fed-
eral Aviation Administration—Operations’’
in division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–123), up to $18,000,000
shall also be available for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of major de-
clared disasters occurring in calendar year
2018: Provided, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the Emer-
gency Relief Program as authorized under
section 125 of title 23, United States Code,
$1,650,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Community
Development Fund’’, $2,431,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for necessary ex-
penses for activities authorized under title I
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to
disaster relief, long-term recovery, restora-
tion of infrastructure and housing, economic
revitalization, and mitigation in the most
impacted and distressed areas resulting from
a major disaster that occurred in 2018 or 2019
(except as otherwise provided under this
heading) pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided, That
funds shall be awarded directly to the State,
unit of general local government, or Indian
tribe (as such term is defined in section 102
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974) at the discretion of the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under this heading
$431,000,000 shall be allocated to meet unmet
infrastructure needs for grantees that re-
ceived allocations for disasters that occurred
in 2017 under this heading of division B of
Public Law 115–56 and title XI of subdivision
1 of division B of Public Law 115–123, of
which $331,442,114 shall be allocated to those
grantees affected by Hurricane Maria: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts provided
in the previous proviso, the Secretary’s de-
termination of unmet needs for infrastruc-
ture shall not take into account mitigation-
specific allocations: Provided further, That
any amounts allocated pursuant to the pre-
vious two provisos to any such grantee shall
not be available for draw down and expendi-
ture by a grantee that has entered into alter-
native procedures under section 428 of the
Stafford Act as of the date of enactment of
this Act until such grantee has reached a
final agreement on all fixed cost estimates
within the timeline provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency: Provided
further, That prior to making any grant of
funds provided in the previous three pro-
visos, the Secretary must receive from the
grantee information that allows the Sec-
retary to certify that such grantee has in
place proficient financial controls and pro-
curement processes and has established ade-
quate procedures to prevent any duplication
of benefits as defined by section 312 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), to en-
sure timely expenditure of funds, to main-
tain comprehensive websites regarding all
disaster recovery activities assisted with
these funds, and to detect and prevent waste,
fraud, and abuse of funds: Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this heading in Public Law 115–123 and trans-
ferred to the Office of Inspector General, no
less than $6,000,000 shall be for necessary
costs of overseeing and auditing funds made
available to grantees affected by Hurricane
Maria, including a review of grant expendi-
ture rates: Provided further, That any funds
made available under this heading and under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.099 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3126 May 23, 2019
the same heading in Public Law 115–254 that
remain available, after the funds under such
headings have been allocated for necessary
expenses for activities authorized under such
headings, shall be allocated to grantees, for
mitigation activities in the most impacted
and distressed areas resulting from a major
disaster that occurred in 2018: Provided fur-
ther, That such allocations shall be made in
the same proportion that the amount of
funds each grantee received under this Act
and the same heading in division I of Public
Law 115–254 bears to the amount of all funds
provided to all grantees that received alloca-
tions for disasters that occurred in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under the text preceding the first
proviso under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, the Sec-
retary shall allocate to all such grantees an
aggregate amount not less than 33 percent of
the sum of such amounts of funds within 120
days after the enactment of this Act based
on the best available data, and shall allocate
no less than 100 percent of such funds by no
later than 180 days after the enactment of
this Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall not prohibit the use of funds made
available under this heading and the same
heading in Public Law 115–254 for non-Fed-
eral share as authorized by section 105(a)(9)
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)): Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, grantees may establish
grant programs to assist small businesses for
working capital purposes to aid in recovery:
Provided further, That as a condition of mak-
ing any grant, the Secretary shall certify in
advance that such grantee has in place pro-
ficient financial controls and procurement
processes and has established adequate pro-
cedures to prevent any duplication of bene-
fits as defined by section 312 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), to ensure time-
ly expenditure of funds, to maintain com-
prehensive websites regarding all disaster re-
covery activities assisted with these funds,
and to detect and prevent waste, fraud, and
abuse of funds: Provided further, That with
respect to any such duplication of benefits,
the Secretary shall act in accordance with
section 1210 of Public Law 115–254 (132 Stat.
3442) and section 312 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall require grantees to
maintain on a public website information
containing common reporting criteria estab-
lished by the Department that permits indi-
viduals and entities awaiting assistance and
the general public to see how all grant funds
are used, including copies of all relevant pro-
curement documents, grantee administrative
contracts and details of ongoing procure-
ment processes, as determined by the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That prior to the ob-
ligation of funds a grantee shall submit a
plan to the Secretary for approval detailing
the proposed use of all funds, including cri-
teria for eligibility and how the use of these
funds will address long-term recovery and
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may not be
used for activities reimbursed by, or for
which funds have been made available by,
the Federal Emergency Management Agency
or the Army Corps of Engineers, in excess of
the authorized amount of the project or its
components: Provided further, That funds al-
located under this heading shall not be con-
sidered relevant to the non-disaster formula
allocations made pursuant to section 106 of
the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Provided further,
That a State, unit of general local govern-
ment, or Indian tribe may use up to 5 per-
cent of its allocation for administrative
costs: Provided further, That the first proviso
under this heading in the Supplemental Ap-
propriations for Disaster Relief Require-
ments Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law 115–
254) is amended by striking ‘‘State or unit of
general local government’’ and inserting
‘‘State, unit of general local government, or
Indian tribe (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 102 of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Pro-
vided further, That the sixth proviso under
this heading in the Supplemental Appropria-
tions for Disaster Relief Requirements Act,
2018 (division I of Public Law 115–254) is
amended by striking ‘‘State or subdivision
thereof’’ and inserting ‘‘State, unit of gen-
eral local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further, That
in administering the funds under this head-
ing, the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment may waive, or specify alternative
requirements for, any provision of any stat-
ute or regulation that the Secretary admin-
isters in connection with the obligation by
the Secretary or the use by the recipient of
these funds (except for requirements related
to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor
standards, and the environment), if the Sec-
retary finds that good cause exists for the
waiver or alternative requirement and such
waiver or alternative requirement would not
be inconsistent with the overall purpose of
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, re-
cipients of funds provided under this heading
that use such funds to supplement Federal
assistance provided under section 402, 403,
404, 406, 407, 408(c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may
adopt, without review or public comment,
any environmental review, approval, or per-
mit performed by a Federal agency, and such
adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of
the recipient with respect to such environ-
mental review, approval or permit: Provided
further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)),
the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request
for release of funds and certification, imme-
diately approve the release of funds for an
activity or project assisted under this head-
ing if the recipient has adopted an environ-
mental review, approval or permit under the
preceding proviso or the activity or project
is categorically excluded from review under
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall publish via notice
in the Federal Register any waiver, or alter-
native requirement, to any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers pursu-
ant to title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days
before the effective date of such waiver or al-
ternative requirement: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, up to $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for capacity building and technical as-
sistance, including assistance on contracting
and procurement processes, to support
States, units of general local government, or
Indian tribes (and their subrecipients) that
receive allocations pursuant to this heading,
received disaster recovery allocations under
the same heading in Public Law 115–254, or
may receive similar allocations for disaster
recovery in future appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate,
to ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment—Program Office Salaries and Ex-
penses—Community Planning and Develop-
ment’’ for necessary costs, including infor-
mation technology costs, of administering
and overseeing the obligation and expendi-
ture of amounts under this heading: Provided
further, That the amount specified in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be combined with funds
appropriated under the same heading and for
the same purpose in Public Law 115–254 and
the aggregate of such amounts shall be avail-
able for any of the same such purposes speci-
fied under this heading or the same heading
in Public Law 115–254 without limitation:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act are des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1101. (a) Amounts previously made
available for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
sulting from a major disaster, including
funds provided under section 145 of division C
of Public Law 114–223, section 192 of division
C of Public Law 114–223 (as added by section
101(3) of division A of Public Law 114–254),
section 421 of division K of Public Law 115–31,
and any mitigation funding provided under
the heading ‘‘Department of Housing and
Urban Development—Community Planning
and Development—Community Development
Fund’’ of Public Law 115–123, that were allo-
cated in response to Hurricane Matthew,
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Florence. In addition, any
funds provided under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—
Community Planning and Development—
Community Development Fund’’ in this Act
or in division I of Public Law 115–254 that are
allocated in response to Hurricane Florence
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Matthew. Until HUD publishes
the Federal Register Notice implementing
this provision, grantees may submit for HUD
approval revised plans for the use of funds
related to Hurricane Matthew that expand
the eligible beneficiaries of existing pro-
grams contained in such previously approved
plans to include those impacted by Hurri-
cane Florence. Approval of any such revised
plans shall include the execution of revised
grant terms and conditions as necessary.
Once the implementing Notice is published,
any additional action plan revisions shall
follow the requirements contained therein.
(b) Amounts made available for adminis-
trative costs for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas
under this Act or any future Act, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.099 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3127
May 23, 2019
amounts previously provided under section
420 of division L of Public Law 114–113, sec-
tion 145 of division C of Public Law 114–223,
section 192 of division C of Public Law 114–
223 (as added by section 101(3) of division A of
Public Law 114–254), section 421 of division K
of Public Law 115–31, and under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Planning and Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’’ of
division B of Public Law 115–56, Public Law
115–123, and Public Law 115–254, shall be
available for eligible administrative costs of
the grantee related to any disaster relief
funding identified in this subsection without
regard to the particular disaster appropria-
tion from which such funds originated.
(c) The additional uses pursuant to this
section for amounts that were previously
designated by the Congress, respectively, as
an emergency requirement or as being for
disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or
as being for disaster relief pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 1102. Of all amounts made available
for mitigation activities under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’’ in
Public Law 115–123, the Secretary shall pub-
lish in the Federal Register the allocations
to all eligible grantees, and the necessary ad-
ministrative requirements applicable to such
allocations within 90 days after enactment of
this Act:
(1) For any plans or amendments address-
ing the use of any funds provided under Pub-
lic Law 115–123 and received by the Secretary
prior to December 22, 2018, the Secretary
shall review pending amendments within 15
days of enactment of this Act and pending
plans within 30 days of enactment of this
Act;
(2) After the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary may not apply the statutory
waiver or alternative requirement authority
provided by Public Law 115–123 to extend or
otherwise alter existing statutory and regu-
latory provisions governing the timeline for
review of required grantee plans:
Provided, That any amounts allocated pursu-
ant to this section to any such grantee shall
not be available for draw down and expendi-
ture by a grantee that has entered into alter-
native procedures under section 428 of the
Stafford Act as of the date of enactment of
this Act until such grantee has reached a
final agreement on all fixed cost estimates
within the timeline provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency: Provided
further, That prior to making any grant of
funds allocated pursuant to this section, the
Secretary must receive from the grantee in-
formation that allows the Secretary to cer-
tify that such grantee has in place proficient
financial controls and procurement processes
and has established adequate procedures to
prevent any duplication of benefits as de-
fined by section 312 of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), to ensure timely expend-
iture of funds, to maintain comprehensive
websites regarding all disaster recovery ac-
tivities assisted with these funds, and to de-
tect and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of
funds: Provided further, That amounts
repurposed under this heading that were pre-
viously designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE XII
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
SEC. 1201. Each amount appropriated or
made available by this Act is in addition to
amounts otherwise appropriated for the fis-
cal year involved.
SEC. 1202. No part of any appropriation
contained in this Act shall remain available
for obligation beyond the current fiscal year
unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 1203. Unless otherwise provided for by
this Act, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this Act to appropriations ac-
counts shall be available under the authori-
ties and conditions applicable to such appro-
priations accounts for fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 1204. Each amount designated in this
Act by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
SEC. 1205. For purposes of this Act, the con-
sequences or impacts of any hurricane shall
include damages caused by the storm at any
time during the entirety of its duration as a
cyclone, as defined by the National Hurri-
cane Center.
SEC. 1206. Any amount appropriated by this
Act, designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and
subsequently so designated by the President,
and transferred pursuant to transfer authori-
ties provided by this Act shall retain such
designation.
SEC. 1207. (a) Section 1309(a) of the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C.
4016(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘May 31,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’.
(b) Section 1319 of the National Flood In-
surance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4026) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘May 31, 2019’’ and inserting
‘‘September 30, 2019’’.
(c) If this Act is enacted after May 31, 2019,
the amendments made by subsections (a) and
(b) shall take effect as if enacted on May 31,
2019.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Additional
Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster
Relief Act, 2019’’.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 3
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Thursday, May
23, 2019, at 9:45 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Thursday, May 23, 2019, at
time to be determined, to conduct a
hearing on the following nominations:
David Fabian Black, of North Dakota,
to be Deputy Commissioner of Social
Security, and Emin Toro, of Virginia,
to be a Judge of the United States Tax
Court.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Thursday, May 23, 2019,
at 9:15 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
f
NATIONAL PUBLIC WORKS WEEK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration and the
Senate proceed to the consideration of
S. Res. 213.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 213) designating the
week of May 19 through May 25, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Public Works Week.’’
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and that the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 213) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of May 16, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RESOLUTIONS SUBMITTED TODAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate now proceed to the en bloc consid-
eration of the following Senate Resolu-
tions, which were submitted earlier
today: S. Res. 222, S. Res. 223, S. Res.
224, S. Res. 225, and S. Res. 226.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolutions
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the resolutions.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is on
adoption of the resolutions en bloc.
The resolutions were agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the pre-
ambles be agreed to and that the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table, all en bloc.
The preambles were agreed to.
(The resolutions, with their pre-
ambles, are printed in today’s RECORD
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.099 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3128 May 23, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE RICH HISTORY,
HERITAGE, AND STRATEGIC IM-
PORTANCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF
THE MARSHALL ISLANDS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the En-
ergy and Natural Resources Committee
be discharged from further consider-
ation and the Senate now proceed to S.
Con. Res. 3.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 3)
recognizing the rich history, heritage, and
strategic importance of the Republic of the
Marshall Islands and the Marshallese popu-
lation residing in the United States.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (S. Con.
Res. 3) was agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The concurrent resolution, with its
preamble, is printed in the RECORD of
February 13, 2019, under ‘‘Submitted
Resolutions.’’)
f
DISCHARGE AND REFERRAL—S. 886
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources be discharged from further con-
sideration of S. 886 and the bill be re-
ferred to the Committee on Indian Af-
fairs.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE
PROGRAM EXTENSION ACT OF 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. 1693, introduced earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1693) to reauthorize the National
Flood Insurance Program.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate on the bill, the bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill pass?
The bill (S. 1693) was passed as fol-
lows:
S. 1693
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National
Flood Insurance Program Extension Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIONAL FLOOD
INSURANCE PROGRAM.
(a) FINANCING.—Section 1309(a) of the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C.
4016(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘May 31,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘June 14, 2019’’.
(b) PROGRAM EXPIRATION.—Section 1319 of
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 4026) is amended by striking ‘‘May 31,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘June 14, 2019’’.
(c) RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE.—If this
Act is enacted after May 31, 2019, the amend-
ments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall
take effect as if enacted on May 31, 2019.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR FRIDAY, MAY 24, 2019,
THROUGH MONDAY, JUNE 3, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Now, Mr. Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that
when the Senate completes its business
today, it adjourn to convene for pro
forma sessions only, with no business
being conducted on the following dates
and times and that following each pro
forma session, the Senate adjourn for
the next pro forma session: Friday,
May 24 at 9:45 a.m.; Tuesday, May 28 at
11:30 a.m.; Friday, May 31 at 10:30 a.m.
I further ask unanimous consent that
when the Senate adjourns on Friday
May 31, it next convene at 3 p.m., Mon-
day, June 3; that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate resume con-
sideration of the motion to proceed to
Calendar No. 78, S. 1332; finally, that
notwithstanding the provisions of rule
XXII, the cloture motions filed during
today’s session ripen at 5:30 p.m., Mon-
day, June 3.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:45 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:34 p.m., adjourned until Friday,
May 24, 2019, at 9:45 a.m.
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
LAJUANA S. WILCHER, OF KENTUCKY, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE FEDERAL AGRI-
CULTURAL MORTGAGE CORPORATION, VICE CHESTER
JOHN CULVER.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
BRIAN CALLANAN, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE GENERAL
COUNSEL FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY,
VICE BRENT JAMES MCINTOSH.
BRENT JAMES MCINTOSH, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE AN
UNDER SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, VICE DAVID
MALPASS, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ERIN ELIZABETH MCKEE, OF CALIFORNIA, A CAREER
MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF
MINISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA
NEW GUINEA, AND TO SERVE CONCURRENTLY AND WITH-
OUT ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION AS AMBASSADOR EX-
TRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA TO THE SOLOMON ISLANDS AND
AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC
OF VANUATU.
HARRY S TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDATION
STEPHEN R. BOUGH, OF MISSOURI, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE HARRY S TRUMAN
SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING DE-
CEMBER 10, 2021, VICE ROGER L. HUNT, TERM EXPIRED.
THE JUDICIARY
ELIZABETH J. SHAPIRO, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA, TO BE AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR THE TERM
OF FIFTEEN YEARS, VICE LEE F. SATTERFIELD, TERM
EXPIRED.
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. MARY F. O’BRIEN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RE-
SERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be brigadier general
COL. ARTHUR P. WUNDER
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
AS A CHAPLAIN UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624
AND 7064:
To be brigadier general
COL. WILLIAM GREEN, JR.
NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
VICE ADM. PHILLIP G. SAWYER
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED INDIVIDUALS FOR APPOINT-
MENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
HASSAN N. BATAYNEH
ASAD U. QAMAR
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
MICHAEL J. BALLARD
BRUCE E. CHOJNACKI
LUIS A. ETIENNE
JOHANNA M. FRANCO
JUSTIN B. GORKOWSKI
BRENT A. HAMILTON
JASON M. HARLAN
DANIEL D. HICKEY
FRANCISCO J. JAUME
MATTHEW P. KENT
BENJAMIN H. KLIMKOWSKI
TERRELL C. LAWSON
MARK S. LEMANSKI
TARA A. MAHONEY
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G23MY6.063 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3129
May 23, 2019
MARK B. MCCOOL
KURT J. MCDOWELL
KYLE V. MOSES
THOMAS M. NELSON
JULIANNA M. RODRIGUEZ
JEREMY R. SCHUNKE
STEVEN R. SIMMONS, JR.
GAETANO M. SNOW
CHARLES E. STEARNS
MICHAEL B. STOKES
NAKIA J. SUMMERS
KEVIN R. TANQUARY
JASON G. THOMAS
MICHAEL B. TOWNER
BRIAN J. WHITE
CHRISTOPHER A. WILEY
CHRISTOPHER A. WILSON
D013844
D015102
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
ANDRE L. THOMAS
THE FOLLOWING OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT TO THE
GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
D013839
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SEC-
TIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be major
CHRISTOPHER B. NETTLES
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
EDWARD C. ADAMS
RANDALL J. ADAMS
NATHAN T. ADKINS
ANTHONY B. AGUILAR
JASON M. ALEXANDER
WALTER T. ALLARD
JASON D. ALLEN
MARTIN D. ANDERS
JON C. ANDERSON
KARO M. ANDERSON
LUCAS R. ANDERSON
NICHOLAS K. ANDERSON
RICHARD S. ANDERSON
GRAYSON F. ANGUS
ALEX A. AQUINO
BAUDELIO ARIAS, JR.
ADAM W. ARMSTRONG
MICHAEL C. ARNONE
STEWART D. BAILEY
MICAH I. BAKER
MARIUS B. BALAS
CRYSTAL B. BATEY
JAMES A. BATTLE
AARON B. BATY
CHRISTOPHER O. BEAL
STEVEN W. BEARD
HERBERT F. BECK
BONNIE L. BELOBRAJDIC
TRAVIS BETZ
CHARLES G. BIES
AARON L. BILLINGSLEY
JAMES C. BITHORN
JOSEPH C. BLACK
STEPHAN R. BOLTON
ROBERT E. BONHAM
JEFFREY P. BOTTRELL
MATTHEW J. BOWMAN
STEPHEN R. BOZOVICH
NANSHANTA M. BRADFORD
TARA K. BRADLEY
ROBERT M. BRANDSTETTER
JOSEPH O. BREEDLOVE
RAMON BRIGANTTI
JIM A. BROCKINGTON
CLINTON W. BROWN
CODY H. BROWN
WILLIAM E. BROWN
MACKLAND H. BROWNELL
LARRY B. BRUEGGEMEYER
DAVID A. BRUNAIS
STEPHEN W. BRUNK
MARK A. BUCK
JOHN L. BURBANK
JEFFERSON D. BURGES
MEGAN T. BURKE
NATHANAEL O. BURNORE
JAMEKELA M. BURNS
THOMAS W. BURNS
PAUL S. BUTTON
JOHN W. CAHILL
BRIAN L. CALDWELL
DAVID R. CAMPBELL
NATASHA N. CAMPBELL
DANIEL B. CANNON
YOVANA CARDENAS
THOMAS F. CARROLL
CORY J. CARTER
ADAM V. CARUSO
BILLY B. CASIDAY
MAX E. CAYLOR
JESUS CEJA, JR.
THOMAS CHAE
NICHOLAS B. CHALLEN
BENJAMIN T. CHANNELS
DAVID T. CHAPMAN
JIMMY T. CHEN
LUKE T. CHIVERS
PEARL H. CHRISTENSEN
JOSHUA T. CHRISTY
THOMAS R. CHURCH
JONATHAN M. CINTRON
JOSEPH A. CLARK
CHARLES W. CLAYPOOL
ARIS J. COMEAUX
CHARLES W. COMFORT, JR.
BRANDON J. COOK
KENNETH D. A. COOK
MICHAEL D. COOKEY
JAMES A. COPP
BRIAN L. CORBIN
WILLIAM B. CORDELL
JAMES L. COVINGTON
KEVIN E. CRONIN
RONALD S. CROWTHER
DAVID M. CULVER
RUSSELL O. CUMMINGS
WILLIAM T. CUNNINGHAM
EDWARD M. CUSTER
ROBERT C. CUTHBERTSON
PAUL A. CUTTS
KEVIN E. DAGON
TODD A. DANA
CLAY E. DANIELS
NICHOLAS S. DAUGHERTY
DAMASIO DAVILA
MATTHEW J. DAY
CASEY A. DEAN
TIMOTHY J. DECKER II
TIMOTHY W. DECKER
RENE M. DELAFUENTE
JONPAUL E. DEPREO
TIFFANY L. DILLS
KEVIN S. DODSON
MICHAEL G. DOLAN
MATTHIAS W. DREHER
DEREK G. DROUIN
ANTHONY G. DUNAT
ADAM G. DUVALL
FRANK R. DUVERGER III
CHRISTOPHER R. EIDMAN
GREGORY R. ELDRIDGE
ALAN J. ENKE
VINCENT P. ENRIQUEZ
PETER M. ERICKSON
PHILLIP J. EWELL
JONATHAN P. EWING
ANTHONY B. FALCON
BRYAN G. FANNING
KITE S. FAULKNER
SCOTT T. FEATHERS
JERALD M. FERGUSON
DANIEL P. FERRITER
ROBERT A. FERRYMAN
MICHAEL FILANOWSKI
CANDACE N. FISHER
BRENDAN D. FITZGERALD
MICHAEL E. FITZGERALD IV
ARECIA B. FLENAUGH
RUFINO B. FLORES
BRIAN G. FORESTER
DAVID P. FORSHA
LANCE J. FOUNTAIN
MATTHEW M. FOX
NICK S. FRANCOIS
ANTHONY E. FREUDE
JEREMIAH L. FURNIA
ANTHONY FUSCELLARO
RYAN J. GAINEY
BRETT A. GAMBACORTA
ASHLEY R. GARDINER
THOMAS N. GARNER
THOMAS M. GARVEY
BRADLEY C. GATES
MARK J. GEISLER II
KRISTOPHER T. GILLETT
IAN M. GINTY
JARRAD D. GLASENAPP
JONATHAN B. GODWIN
CHAD M. GOSNEY
NICHOLAS P. GRAHAM
CHRISTOPHER M. GREEN
GREGORY S. GREEN
ROBERT H. GREGORY
EDMUND A. GUY
TIMOTHY A. HAEBERLE
CHARLES W. HALL
MICHAEL A. HAMILTON
JASON R. HANSON
JASON L. HARMON
ANDREW J. HARRIS
TIMOTHY R. HARRIS
MICHAEL L. HARRISON
JASON A. HARTLEY
DANIEL R. HAYES
EMORY J. HAYES
PAUL C. HAYNSWORTH
ROBERT D. HEFFNER
WILLIAM S. HEFRON
ANTHONY F. HEISLER
DAVID D. HENDERSON
BRAD R. HENRY
PHILIP G. HENSEL
MICHAEL J. HERBEK
ROBERTO HERRERA
BROCKTON L. HERSHBERGER
JOSHUA L. HILL
DANIEL G. HODERMARSKY
MATTHEW A. HODGES
ANDREW J. HOEPRICH
BRUCE L. HOFFMAN, JR.
TIMOTHY D. HOGAN
WILLIAM L. HOLBROOK
DOUGLAS N. HOLT
JASON C. HONEYCUTT
CLIFFORD T. HOWARD
ANTHONY T. HOWELL
BRODIE K. HOYER
RONALD J. HUDAK
RHIAN A. HUDSON
MICHAEL B. HULTQUIST
JOSHUA A. HUNTER
MICHAEL T. HUTCHINSON
TREVIS C. ISENBERG
CHRISTOPHER A. IZQUIERDO
MARK A. JACKSON
VINCENT L. JACKSON
MATTHEW L. JAMISON
ERIC L. JENSEN
GRANT E. JERRY
ANDREW C. JOHANNES
JOHN K. JOHANNES
DAVID R. JONES
RICHARD M. JONES, JR.
RUSSELL A. JONES
KEVIN C. KAHRE
JACOB M. KALDOR
DANIEL M. KANE
KEVIN P. KANE
JOHN A. KARCHER
SEAN H. KARRELS
ERIK W. KARSTENSEN
VINCE M. KASTER
KEITH C. KATZENBERGER
CHRISTINE L. KAY
EMIL J. KESSELRING
MICHEAL D. KIESER
EDWARD M. KIM
SAMUEL KIM
AARON B. KING
ROBERT M. KINNEY
DANIEL J. KINSELLA
KYLE W. KIRBY
BRIAN M. KITCHING
ANDREW M. KLIPPEL
JARROD K. KNOWLDEN
RICHARD L. KNOX
RICHARD P. KOCH
JOSEPH A. KOPCHA
JUSTIN R. KOPER
RYAN C. KORTZE
ERIC M. KUENKE
KLINT E. KUHLMAN
BRIAN A. KUNIHIRO
THOMAS A. LAINIS
THOMAS J. LAKE
SETH E. LANGSTON
ORRETT D. O. LAWRENCE
DANIEL R. LEARD
MARK M. LEE
ALPHONSE J. LEMAIRE
TIMOTHY J. LEONE
EDWARD B. LESCHER
ISAAC E. LEWELLEN
ANDREW R. LEWIS
LAWRENCE J. LEWIS
MICHAEL E. LOCONSOLO
ETHAN LOEFFERT
SCOTT D. LORENZEN
GRADY D. LOWE
STEPHEN M. LUCAS
RUDI H. LUSA
IAN A. MACNAB
ROBERT T. MAGILL
JOHN F. MAGLIOCCA
DENNIS J. MAHER
CHRISTOPHER T. MAJORS
DYLAN W. MALCOMB
JAMES R. MALLICOAT
SCOTT B. MANSON
BRETT A. MARDIS
ANDREW W. MARSH
ANTOINE W. MARTIN
ARI M. MARTYN
RAYMOND A. MASZAROSE
ANDREW L. MCCOLLUM
NATHAN E. MCCORMACK
ADAM S. MCCOY
BRENDAN J. MCEVOY
SEAN L. MCEWEN
PAUL L. MCKINNEY
STEPHEN R. MCKINNEY
JAMES K. MCKITTRICK
ODELLE J. MEANS
BRETT M. MEDSKER
BRIAN J. MEISTER
RICHARD M. MENDENHALL
BRIAN M. MERKL
JOSEPH R. MICKLEY
BRIAN R. MILETICH
BRADLEY C. MILLER
IVAN D. MILLER
JOSEPH J. MILLER
TRENT D. MILLER
EDWIN L. MINGES
BRIAN A. MONTGOMERY
MATHEW W. MOORE
NIKOLAI J. MOORE
CHARLES MOORES
JOHN A. MORGAN
GEORGE M. J. MORRIS
AARON E. MORRISON
CHRISTOPHER W. MUELLER
JEREMY A. MULLER
JUSTIN V. MULLINS
DAVID MUN
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.011 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3130 May 23, 2019
PATRICK M. MURPHY
JASON A. MURRAY
MATTHEW E. MYERS
RICKY J. MYERS
JONATHAN C. NADLER
BENJAMIN J. NAGY
WILLIAM S. NANCE
CULLY D. NEAL
RUSTIN H. NECESSARY
ERIC NELSON
BILL T. NGUYEN
ANDREW D. NILSON
TIMOTHY E. NIX
JERAMY R. NORLAND
DANA NORRIS
ALEKSANDAR G. NULL
JEREMIAH J. OLIGARIO
MICHAEL S. OMODT
WILLIAM R. ORKINS
JOSEPH E. ORR, JR.
DAVID J. ORZECH
ADRIAN B. OUTLAW
ERIC I. PALICIA
JEREMY L. PANKRATZ
AARON G. PARKS
PATTRIC R. PATTERSON
BRUCE J. PAULEY
SAM M. PEARSON III
DANIEL J. PECHA
JAMES B. PENCE
JOHN R. PENDON
KRISTOPHER S. PERRIN
ZACHARY J. PETERSON
WESLEY P. PIERCE II
BRIAN W. PILCH
ROBIN R. PINCKNEY
MARCUS B. PINTO
GREGORY R. POLK
JAMES B. POLK
SHAWN P. POLONKEY
JOHN A. POORE
MICHAEL T. POPE
STONEY L. PORTIS
GORDON E. POWERS
JOSHUA D. POWERS
TYRONE B. POWERS
JOSEPH L. PRESUTTO
JEREMY D. PRINCE
KURT A. PRYOR
JOSHUA A. PUSILLO
GEORGE T. RABB
STEVEN M. RACHAMIM
JUENE M. RADER
JOSEPH A. REAGAN
ROBERT S. REECE
MARCUS D. REEDER
DEREK M. REEVES
RICHARD D. REVEL
SHAUN A. REYNOLDS
BRYAN H. RHEE
ANDREW M. RHODES
JOHN R. RHODES
DONALD J. RIDDLE
GEORGE R. RIGGIN
BENJAMIN R. RITTER
CRISTIAN A. ROBBINS
JOSHUA D. ROBERTS
PAUL E. ROBERTS
ELPIDIO RODRIGUEZ
DAVID F. ROMAN
ADAM T. ROPELEWSKI
JACOB E. ROPER
MARK V. ROSS
CHARLES O. ROUZER
JOSEPH M. SAHL
ALEXANDER D. SAMMS
YAJAIRA SANTIAGO
STEVEN M. SANTUCCI
TIMOTHY E. SARTORI
MOSEPH A. J. SAUDA
BRIAN T. SCHAPKER
RYAN J. SCHLOESSER
RANDY M. SCHULTZ
AARON T. SCHWENGLER
ANDREW L. SERGENT
PHILLIP J. SERPICO
ANDREW F. SHAFFER
CHRISTOPHER J. SHEPHERD
GREGORY P. SHIPPER
JASON T. SHUFF
PAUL D. SIPE
SEAN R. SKRMETTA
ERIC S. SLATER
KATHERINE J. SLINGERLAND
LUCAS D. SLINKER
JENNIFER L. SMITH
KEVIN G. SMITH
MARY M. SMITH
ERIC Y. SOLER
BRENNAN M. SPEAKES
ALLEN W. SPENCE
ANDREW J. SPRING
NATHAN A. STAHL
DAVID J. STALKER
SCOTT J. STEPHENS
LARRY STEWARD
BOB J. STONE
MATTHEW W. STPIERRE
MATTHEW A. STRAND
JOSHUA M. STURGILL
PATRICK J. SULLIVAN
DANIEL D. SUNDBERG
JUSTIN J. SWANSON
BENJAMIN M. SYMONETTE
JOSE E. TADURAN
TRAVIS W. TALLMAN
BARTON L. TATE
DANIELLE C. TAYLOR
MICHAEL J. TAYLOR
PATRICK J. TAYLOR
EMILIANO TELLADO
JAMES D. TEMPLIN
JACOB M. TEPLESKY
JAMES L. THOMASSON
MICHAEL A. THURMAN
ANDREW R. TILL
EMERITO M. TIOTUICO
MATTHEW W. TODD
MARK D. TOMOLA
JUSTIN R. TOOLE
CHRISTOPHER B. TREUTING
JEFFREY A. UHERKA
CLINTON B. UNDERWOOD
JAMES M. UPSON
COLIN E. VANCE
ROBIN W. VANDEUSEN
PETER C. VANGJEL
IAN S. VANGORDEN
SHAWN J. VANTASSELL
STEVEN A. VEVES
JONATHAN A. VILLASENOR
THOMAS C. VISEL
PATRICK D. VOGT
ELIZABETH N. WALGREN
CHARLES E. WALKER
CHARLES R. WALKER
WAYNE J. WALKER
JOHN P. WANJA
KEVIN M. WARD
LLOYD E. WARREN
CHRISTOPHER L. WATKINS
JAMES F. WATTS
ROBERT D. WEBB
STEVEN J. WEBER
LAURA R. WEIMER
JOSEPH Z. WELLS
WADE W. WELSH
KEVIN C. WHITE
GAGE L. WIENTJES
DANIEL M. WILLIAMS
DENNIS R. WILLIAMS
FREDERICK D. WILLIAMS
BRITTANY Y. WOODS
JEFFREY S. WRIGHT
ANDREW K. YANG
D010907
D012373
D012625
D012738
D012760
D013274
D013800
D013849
D013930
D014335
D014817
D014831
D014832
D014870
D014893
D014923
D014924
D014925
D015072
G010558
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
CHARLES M. ABEYAWARDENA
JOHN C. ACOSTA
BRADY C. ADAMS
ELIZABETH A. AGAPIOS
MELISSA J. ALBAUGH
RONALD ALCALA
BRADLEY K. ALLBRITTEN
HUMBERTO A. ALVAREZ
DARIUS D. ANANIA
ANN S. ANDERSON
RICHARD H. ANDERSON
TODD A. ANDERSON
TOBIAS S. APTICAR
DALLEN R. ARNY
CHARLES T. AUSTIN
GINA M. AVILES
MARK N. AWAD
MARK J. BALBONI
MATTHEW J. BARBOUR
NOLAN J. BARCO
AMANDA M. BARNETT
JAMES P. BARNHART
AARON D. BEAM
RICHARD D. I. BECKER
NICOLE A. BELL
BRET H. BELLIZIO
BENJAMIN K. BENNETT
CHRISTOPHER J. BLANK
JENNIFER J. BOCANEGRA
ROBERT H. BOTSFORD IV
CATHERINE G. BOYLSTON
PATRICK M. BRADLEY
CHRISTOPHER J. BRAUNSTEIN
JAMES M. BROGAN
THOMAS V. BROOKS IV
DAVID C. BROWN
ALICIA E. BRYANT
WILLIAM N. BURGOS, JR.
DAVID W. BUTLER
FELIX K. CANETE
ENRIQUE T. CANIZALESPYLES
JACOB W. CAPPS
KENNETH W. CAREL
DONALD P. CARTER
MARY C. CASSIDY
ALBERTO CASTRO
ANDREW D. CHAFFEE
TIMYIAN CHEUNG
NORMAN R. CHRISTIE
YOUNG H. CHUN
KEDRIC M. CLARK
DOMINICK G. CLEMENTE, JR.
ADAM T. CLEMENTS
JASON C. COAD
JAMES V. COLLADO
ROBERT N. COLLIER
CHRISTOPHER A. COLLINS
CHRISTOPHER M. COLLINS
JUSTIN E. COLLINS
JOHN M. COMSTOCK
JOSHUA S. CONARY
JEREMY C. CONNER
JEREMY A. COOPER
CASEY J. CORCORAN
AVON D. CORNELIUS
STEPHEN P. CORPUS
LUCAS P. COTTRELL
MATTHEW S. CROSBY
WILLIAM R. CROSS
AMANDA C. CURRENT
JONATHAN P. CURTIS
DEREK A. DALY
DONALD J. DANGLER
CHAD S. DANIELS
BOBBY E. DAVIS, JR.
MARK A. DAVIS
STEVEN A. DAVIS
ROBERT A. DAY
DOMINICK L. DEFEDE
PAUL N. DELEON
AARON M. DICKSON
DAVID S. DIETZ
HARRY L. DINGLE
CHRISTOPHER W. DISTIFENO
JAMIE D. DOBSON
PAUL D. DOLEZAL
TIMOTHY M. DOLL
ANDREW X. DOWNEY
JEFFREY G. DUPREE
MICHAEL A. DUVAL
PAUL D. EGGIE
LINDSEY M. ELDER
PAUL A. ESCOBAR
MAI L. E. ESKELUND
CHRISTINA A. FANITZI
LEMAR A. FARHAD
JAY G. FIGURSKI
JUSTIN L. FINCHAM
NATHAN K. FINNEY
SHAWN M. FITZGERALD
IAN W. FLEISCHMANN
CHARLES M. FLORES
MATTHEW E. FONTAINE
MICHAEL M. FORESTER
JACOB P. FOUTZ
WALTER J. FRAZIER, JR.
WILLIAM P. FREDERICK
CHRISTOPHER M. FRISBIE
WILLIAM P. FROST
MAXWELL E. FULDAUER
JOSHUA W. FULLER
BRADFORD L. GADDY
COLIN J. GANDY
DARA L. GARNTO
JOSEPH GARWACKI
JIMMY F. GASTON III
AUDREY S. GBONEYLEON
TRENT D. GEISLER
JASON J. GENARD
MATTHEW L. GETTINGS
JOSHUA L. GLENDENING
LYHOMAR GONZALEZ
MICHAEL D. GORE
RANDALL T. GRAHAM
DAVID W. GRAMLING
WILLIAM C. GRAVES
LEE P. GRAY
CHRISTOPHER R. GREEN
NEAL R. GREEN
CHRISTIAN M. GREGOIRE
BRENDA L. GRUSING
REGINALD GUILLET
ZACHARY L. HADFIELD
RICHARD E. HAGNER
LUCAS J. HARAVITCH
KENNETH D. HARDY
NANCY K. HARRIS
MARCUS A. HARRISON
SETH R. HARTMANN
JAMES H. HARVEY
SIMEON M. HARVEY
ROBBY A. HAUGH
ADAM C. HAUPT
JUSTIN E. HAWTHORNE
AUSTIN T. HAYES
JESSICA F. HEGENBART
PATRICK R. HEIM
JONATHAN M. HEIST
WILLIAM L. HEITZMAN
RUSSELL W. HENNESSEY
DEAN K. HERMAN
SHAWN R. HERRICK
NATHAN L. HICKS
DANIEL A. HILL
LANCE C. HILL
MATTHEW R. HINZE
BENJAMIN T. HOFFER
DAVID H. HOYT
GEORGE W. HUGHBANKS
AMANDA HUGHES
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.013 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3131
May 23, 2019
DAVID M. HUNTER
MATTHEW J. HUNTER
RUDDIE E. IBANEZ
KEVIN T. IKE
ERIK M. ILIFF
BRIAN JAMES
TIMOTHY L. JENKINS
MICHAEL T. JESSEE
EVAN D. JOHNSON
SETH A. JOHNSTON
TERRY L. JOINER
RYAN D. JONES
STUART W. JONES
JASON E. KALOW
JOSEPH M. KAMINSKI
ALEX F. KATAUSKAS
GERALD L. KELLER
SEAN K. KENEALLY
PHILLIP J. KERBER
BRETT T. KETCHUM
EZRA Y. KIM
JAMES H. KIM
JAMES E. KING
KRAIG M. KLINE
DUSTIN M. KNAUS
WESLEY N. KNIGHT
DONALD D. KOBAN
WILLIAM L. KOCH
DEREK J. KOCHER
JARED K. KOELLING
DANIEL KULL
MICHAEL C. KURTTI
AARON J. KUYKENDALL
STEVE S. KWON
DANIEL S. LACARIA
CLAUDE A. LAMBERT
JOSEPH A. LAVALLERIVERA
ASHLEY B. LEA
LUCAS J. LEASE
CHRISTOPHER S. Y. LEE
FAITH E. LEE
JOY C. LEHNERT
RONALD C. LENKER
JARROD L. LESLIE
WAYNE S. LETT
WILLIAM C. LEWIS, JR.
CHRISTY A. R. LICKLIDER
JENNIFER D. LILES
MARCUS E. LOPEZ
JAMES C. MACHADO
BLAKE N. MACK
JEFFREY N. MACKINNON
BRANDY L. MALONE
KELLY L. MARKIN
JAE C. MARQUIS
JONATHAN MARTINEZ
CHRISTOPHER P. MATTHEW
KEVIN W. MATTHEWS
DANIEL P. MAYEDA
JOHN J. MCALLISTER
CHRISTOPHER B. MCCARVER
MATTHEW W. MCCRAY
JASON J. MCCUNE
IRVIN M. MCLAUGHLIN
RHONDA L. MCRAE
DEREK W. MEHRTENS
MARTIN J. MEINERS
SEAN P. MICHAELSON
RENEE M. MICHEL
EDWARD MIKKELSEN, JR.
ERIC A. MILLER
JASON C. MILLER
MATTHEW O. MILLER
PATRICK G. MILLER
EDWARD J. MINOR
MARISA P. MORAND
BENJAMIN T. MOREHEAD
GEORGE D. MORRISON
CARDY MOTEN III
CHRISTOPHER L. MUGG
PATRICK R. MUGG
CHRISTOPHER U. MUNAR
JUAN P. MURILLO
KEVIN C. MURNYACK
JASON P. MURPHY
BRIAN S. MURRAY
JACOB T. NAYLOR
ADAM K. NESTOR
SEAN P. NEWCOMB
BRAD A. NEWNUM
DAT T. NGUYEN
VINH Q. NGUYEN
BENJAMIN P. NICHOLAS
EDWARD F. NORRIS
EMILY A. NORTON
DONALD J. NUNEMAKER
ROBERTO NUNEZ
GERALD M. ODOWD
PAUL C. OGWO
HEATHER E. OKEMU
JASON M. ONEAL
EGAN L. OREILLY
MARK F. ORLANDI
ISMAEL ORTIZRIVERA
CHAD A. OTT
JEREMIAH S. OWOH
JASON A. PARDEE
RUSSEL T. PARHAM
AARON M. PARKER
BRIAN E. PATTON
ALLIE M. S. PAYNE
JARED G. PECK
ALEXANDRO N. PEDRAZA
STUART H. PEEBLES
NEIL E. PENTTILA
WINSTON A. PERRY
EDWARD T. PESKIE
JOCOLBY W. PHILLIPS
JACOB C. PIERCE
ANDREW B. POKORA
BENJAMIN POLANCO, JR.
MICHAEL A. POWELL
NEIL S. PRAKASH
LUIS E. PRECIADO
JASON W. PYSKA
JASON A. QUASH
CASEY L. RAMIREZ
MICHAEL A. RANADO
ANDREW C. REED
JASON G. REED
KETTY N. REED
CHRISTOPHER P. REILLY
CORY S. REITER
JESUS REYES
DAVE C. RICHARDS
HEATHER J. RICHARDS
BRADLEY R. RITZEL
OMAR M. ROBERTOCAEZ
MINERVA A. RODRIGUEZ
KENNETH W. ROEDL
GUILLERMO ROJAS, JR.
PETE ROONGSANG
MATTHEW T. ROSEN
BRYAN A. RUCKNAGEL
BRADLEY D. RUDY
RAMON A. RUIZ, JR.
MORGAN R. RUST
ALPHIE G. SACHNIK
DAVID SALAZAR
KYLE SALTZMAN
PEDRO R. SANABRIA
IREKA R. SANDERS
KELLY J. SANDERS
GREGORY E. SANDIFER
ERASMO SANDOVAL
STEPHEN J. SAPOL
KEEFE A. SAVIN
KALE D. SAWYER
KEVIN P. SCHIEMAN
ROBERT W. SCHMOR
BRIAN T. SCHNEIDER
BENJAMIN A. SCHNELLER
ROSS J. SCHUCHARD
DAVID V. SCHULZ
JASON D. SCHWAB
BLAKE E. SCHWARTZ
OCTAVIA R. SCOTT
LEWIS F. SEAU
GEORGE A. SEILER
MICHAEL S. SENFT
SHIRWEN C. SEPARA
ZACHARIAH SEPULVEDA
NICHOLAS J. SHALLCROSS
JESSE L. SHAW, JR.
CHRISTOPHER T. SHERBERT
JASON S. SHIN
JARROD S. SHINGLETON
JEREMY J. SIMMERMAN
ORLANDO C. SIMS
DANIEL M. SINGLETON
JOSEPH A. SMITH
JOSHUA J. SMITH
MICHAEL SMITH
JUNG S. SOH
PATRICK S. SOUTHERLAND
DARRELL V. STEPTER
WARREN B. STEWART
ADAM M. STINE
PETER K. SULEWSKI
KELLY K. SUNDERLAND
KENNETH S. TAKEHANA
TRACY B. TAWIAH
BRYAN T. TAYLOR
THOMAS W. TAYLOR II
SEANNERY J. TENNIMON
JOSHUA F. THOMAS
PAUL A. THOMAS
KAI J. THOMPSON
PAUL W. TOMLINSON II
FELIX TORRES
FELIX G. TORRES
NADIA L. TRAYLORMOSS
SERGIO R. TREJO, JR.
ADAM C. TUMBLIN
JENNIFER M. TUREK
AARON S. TURNER
TIMOTHY D. TYNER
BRYAN M. VADEN
JENNIFER E. VALDIVIA
STEPHAN A. VARGA
JOHN R. VOS
ALEXANDER M. VUKCEVIC
MATTHEW P. WALTER
ROMELL WARD
JAMES R. WARREN
RICHARD M. WATT
SCOTT J. WEEMAN
MICHAEL J. WEISMAN
CHRISTOPHER M. WELLS
SHAIN R. WERTHER
BRENT S. WILLIAMS
DONYEL L. WILLIAMS
JASON P. WILSON
KENTRELL R. WILSON
JUSTINE R. WONG
ADAM C. WOODBURY
ERIK J. WRIGHT
VICTOR M. YINH
PHILIP T. ZAPIEN
MICHAEL D. ZIBERT
NIKOLAUS J. ZIEGLER
MATTHEW A. ZIMMERMAN
DANIEL N. ZISA
D011553
D013416
D014097
D014356
D014441
D014525
D014715
D014809
D014820
D014822
D014853
D014865
D015012
D015194
G001019
G001454
G010006
G010092
G010107
G010121
G010172
G010191
G010279
G010334
G010347
G010449
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
JOHN R. ABELLA
TIMOTHY M. ADAIR
BRIAN J. ADKINS
JACOB W. ALFORD
DESHAUNDA R. ALLEN
MICAH E. ALLEN
XAVIER C. ALLEN
JORGE A. APONTE
MIGUEL A. AQUINO
JAIME L. ARIZMENDIAROCHO
NATHANIEL J. ARNOLD
MICHAEL E. ASHTON
CODY M. AUTREY
FREDERICK J. BABAUTA
CHRISTOPHER M. BALDWIN
TIMOTHY J. BALLAS
EMERSON F. BAMBA
JEANICE A. BARCINAS
JONATHAN BARRETO
AARON J. BECKER
JEFFREY M. BELCOURT
NOEL P. BERGERON
DAVID H. BERGMANN
DALE E. BERRY
LILLIAN A. BERRY
TRAVIS W. BLASCHKE
ANGELA C. BORDEN
JEREMY M. BOURQUE
BROOKS D. BOYD
ARTHUR G. BRONG
CURTIS E. BROOKER
CHRISTOPHER A. BROWN
DAVID L. BROWN
JONATHAN L. BROWN
MORRIS BROWN, JR.
TONI N. BROWN
LEE M. BRUNER III
MIA P. BRUNER
CORRIS L. BULLOCK
ALICIA M. BURROWS
KEVIN D. CAESAR
JOE D. CALDWELL, JR.
STEVEN E. CAMACHO
TAMIKO M. CAMPBELL
ANDREW S. CARPENTER
BRAD A. CATON
FRANK A. CENKNER
BRANDON M. CHAPMAN
SEAN M. CHERMER
THOMAS A. CHO
DAVID M. CHUDY
ANTONIO C. COFFEY
TORRANCE L. CONNER
BRICE A. COOPER
CORBIN E. COPELAND
ERIK A. CORCORAN
TRAVIS E. COREY
AMY M. CORY
REBECCA J. COZAD
MIRANDA R. CRAIG
JASON P. CRIST
CASSANDRA S. CROSBY
KIMBERLY M. CULVER
CHRISTEE S. CUTTINO
REBECCA A. DANGELO
CLAUDIA I. DANIEL
DAWN M. DANIELS
JONATHAN A. DANIELS
GREGORY L. DARDEN
JUSTIN L. DARNELL
BRIAN D. DAVIS
MARCUS D. DAVIS
OCTAVIA L. DAVIS
RYAN C. DAVIS
SCOTT M. DAVIS
CARTER G. DEEKENS
JOHN D. DEGIULIO
DAVID W. DENNETT
JOSEPH F. DENNING, JR.
JERRY A. DEQUASIE
LATIKA S. DIXON
CHARMAINE R. DOUCETTE
DENNY D. DRESCH
EARL L. ELAM
NKECHUKWUKU U. ENWEFA
LARRY L. EPPS, JR.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.015 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3132 May 23, 2019
CHRISTY L. ERWIN
GREGORY D. FINN
CHRISTOPHER L. FLORES
JAMES E. FLOTT
KEITH L. FORD
BENVERREN H. FORTUNE
ANTHONY L. FREDA
BURTON FURLOW, JR.
MATTHEW F. FURTADO
CHARLES G. FYFFE
EFRAIN A. GARCIACOLON
PROSPERO J. GATUS
CHRISTOPHER C. GETTER
TAWOFIK M. GHAZAL
NAQUAVA E. GLENN
MICHAEL G. GOODKNIGHT
CHRISTOPHER J. GORDON
LESLIE A. GRAYHAM
MARIA M. C. GREGORY
SCOTT M. GUM
NATHAN L. HADLOCK
KRIS B. HALEY
JEREON W. HALL
MICHAEL A. HALLINAN
DENNIS L. HAN
KEVIN M. HARPER
CHRISTOPHER G. HARRIS
CHARLES J. HASELBY
JOSHUA L. HEADLEY
PADRAIC T. HEILIGER
CHAD M. HENDERSON
CHRISTOPHER M. HILL
PAUL E. HOLT, JR.
JUSTIN T. HORSFALL
GREGORY HOWARD, JR.
DANIEL L. HOWSER
JANAY L. HURLEY
MATTHEW J. HURLEY
BRYAN C. HUTCHERSON
JESSE J. IGLESIAS
MARIO M. IGLESIAS
EDDIE L. IIAMS
CHRISTIAN D. INCREMONA
EUGENE IRBY
ALLAN S. JACKMAN
LARRY JACKSON, JR.
MATTHEW P. JACOBS
LATOYA M. JAMES
RAPHAEL A. JIMENEZRAMIREZ II
JASON L. JOHNSON
MELISSA E. JOHNSON
NAOMI S. JOHNSON
SHANNON I. JOHNSON
TAMMY D. JOHNSON
RACHEL J. JOSHUA
STACY L. KING
VALERIE KNIGHT
JOSEPH D. KOMANETZ
BONNIE S. KOVATCH
KELLI J. KULHANEK
JOHN D. LAMKIN
JOHN M. LANCASTER, JR.
MELINDA LATTING
CLEOPATRA W. LAWSON
ALBERT J. LEE
KATHERINE A. LEIDENBERG
DENNIS M. LEUNG
JAHREN D. LILJENQUIST
JONATHAN H. LINDSLEY
BLAKE L. LITTLE
JASON M. LOGAN
HANS J. LOKODI
EDGAR A. LOPEZ
ARLENE C. LOVELL
MIREYA K. LUMPKIN
JOSHUA H. LUNSFORD
JOEL M. MACHAK
JAMAAL A. MACK
CHRISTOPHER G. MANGANARO
THOMAS J. MARBURY
HARRY MARS
ROBERT P. MASSEY
CHRISTOPHER J. MASSON
JOHN V. MAUNTEL
ERIC S. MCCALL
MICHAEL R. MCCARTY
AARON M. MCCULLOUGH
CHRISTOPHER Q. MCKINDRA
PAUL D. MEDLEY
MEGAN C. MEINHOLZ
NICHOLAS J. MILLER
MATTHEW W. MISKOWSKI
JEANNETTE M. MOLINA
SCOTT R. MONTOYA
JODIE M. MOOREBARBIN
SCOTTY T. MORI
CARL M. MOSES
PATRICIA C. MURPHY
SHANE L. MURPHY
ANTHONY P. NEWMAN
CHRISTIAN S. NEWTON
TYLER D. OLSEN
HADIYA E. ONEAL
TIMOTHY N. PAGE
THERESA B. PALMORE
MATTHEW P. PANEPINTO
NICHOLAS P. PANEPINTO
MICHELLE L. PARLETTE
KATRINA M. PATTON
JEAN P. PAUL
JEREMY C. PAUL
AARON D. PEARSALL
RYAN D. PERUSICH
DWAYNE A. PETERSON
ERIX S. PHILLIPS
JON T. PHILLIPS
LANELLE PICKETT, JR.
CRISTIAN A. PINZON
ADRIAN L. PLATER
DREW T. PONIVAS
LEVITICUS D. POPE
MANUEL PRADO
KEITH N. PRATT
RICHARD A. PRAUSA
ROBERT T. PREMO
ALIM A. QAASIM
ERIK QUIRALTE
EUPHEMIA S. RAMEY
TINA L. RAMIREZ
ADRIANA R. RAMIREZSCOTT
WILLIE R. RAMSEY
KALIN M. REARDON
PATRICK J. REARDON
MARK C. REED
MICHAEL J. RIGNEY
MATTHEW C. RIVERA
STEVEN C. ROBINSON
TANGELA V. ROBINSON
DANIEL RODRIGUEZ, JR.
JEREMY J. ROGERS
CHRISTOPHER J. RONALD
JACQUELINE G. ROQUETA
BENJAMIN ROSARIOCAMACHO
SUN RYU
AMY A. SAAL
JEFFREY L. SACKS
RODRICK C. SALTER
DAVID A. SANCHEZ
ADIA H. SANDERS
RAUL SANDOVAL
MICHELLE P. SANTAYANA
SCOTT A. SCHMIDT
RALPH E. SCHNEIDER IV
JOHN B. SCHULKE, JR.
JEREMY D. SCOTT
ALAN W. SHOLES, JR.
JOHN D. SHORT
JAIME L. SIMMONS
BRADLEY C. SINES
DENNIS I. SLATTERY
TROY L. SMART
CRYSTAL V. SMITH
JOEL D. SMITH
KELLEY A. SMITH
STANTON W. SMITH
JOSHUA D. SOUTHWORTH
AMANDA K. STAMBACH
NICOLE R. STARR
MICHAEL R. STOCK
RICHARD J. STRAVITSCH
VIRGINIA A. SUPANICK
CAMILLA M. SWAIN
MATTHEW A. SWEENEY
JUAN TALAMANTES, JR.
DWAYNE M. TERRY
BENJAMIN M. TERWILLIGER
MUHAREM TERZIC
RANDY L. TESTER
GRANT T. THIMSEN
CHRISTOPHER D. THOMAS
JERMON D. TILLMAN
QUETABALA L. TOBIN
KEITH O. TONEY
ORLANDO L. TORRES
ROBERT J. TREMBLAY
DANIEL T. TROST
CHRISTOPHER J. URYNOWICZ
MIKLOS S. VAJDA
PLOURDE VALLON
PATRICK S. VANKIRK
IAN J. VARGAS
MELODY L. VARNER
FRANCISCO J. VAZQUEZ
ANGEL G. VEGA
HELEN M. WALLACE
ELIZABETH A. WALSH
CARLOS G. WANDEMBERGH
ASHLEY L. WATSON
LATASHA WATSON
CAREY E. WAY
JOHN D. WEISSENBORN
ALLEN S. WELLMAN
BRANDY L. WEST
ROBERT J. WEST
AMBER R. WHITE
CHANDRIA R. WHITE
CORNELIUS D. WILBERT
ADRIAN J. WILLIAMS
BRIAN M. WILLIAMS
DAVID C. WILLIAMS
DION E. WILLIAMS
NICHOLAS I. WILLIAMS
BENJAMIN E. WILSON
RICHARD S. WILT, JR.
MARK J. WINKER
MATTHEW P. WOOLSEY
NIKOLITSA WOOTEN
JAMES E. WORD
ANDREW P. YOUNG
D013350
D014691
D014810
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be captain
MEGER D. CHAPPELL
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
RYAN D. SCULLY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
BRANDON T. BRIDGES
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
MARK S. JAVATE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
CHANDLER W. JONES
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
JUSTIN R. TAYLOR
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
KRISTINE N. BENCH
DOMINIC F. DIMAGGIO
KYLE B. FRANKLIN
MARK A. HEBERT
CARTER L. JOHNSTON
COLLEEN M. MCDONALD
CHRISTOPHER M. MORRIS
MICHAEL J. PAPA
JEFFREY R. PORTELL
COLIN L. THORNTON
CHRISTOPHER K. TUGGLE
DAVID A. ZIEMBA
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
DIEGO F. ALVARADO
DANIEL ARANDA
JOSHUA A. CHISHOLM
RICHARD J. COILLOT
WILLIAM F. CUNNINGHAM
DANIEL R. FORD
CURTIS J. GOBERT, JR.
BEATA I. GONZALES
RACHAEL A. GOSNELL
MATTHEW C. HAMM
STEPHANIE C. LASTINGER
CHESTER LEE III
JENNIFER C. LIPSCOMB
KIMBERLY T. MANUEL
DANIEL M. MARZLUFF
WENDY S. NG
MICHAEL F. NUNZIATO
SAINATH P. PANJETI
STEPHEN D. RITTERMANN
FRANCISCO RIVERA
ROBERT J. STORER
ANDREW H. TAM
LEAH M. TUNNELL
JERRY Y. TZENG
JARED M. WILHELM
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
ANTHONY J. FALVO IV
ASHLEY A. HOCKYCKO
RICHLYN C. IVEY
AARON V. KAKIEL
JESSICA L. MCNULTY
NICOLE R. SCHWEGMAN
WILLIAM B. TISDALE
BRIAN T. WIERZBICKI
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
BECKY L. BUJAKI
MICHAEL A. FREAS
WILFRED H. JUDD III
MARK T. LOGAN
JASON T. MARTINSON
JARED M. MAULDIN
ALEJANDRO PALOMINO
JOSEPH E. STIERWALT
JOSEPH D. TINDELL
NICHOLAS T. WALKER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
ALBERT E. ARNOLD IV
CHAD M. BERMAN
BRADLEY W. FAIRFAX
RICARDO A. FERRA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.018 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3133
May 23, 2019
BRIAN C. FREDRICK
DAVID T. HURST
LUCAS R. KORAN
JUSTIN M. LETWINSKY
MATTHEW M. MCCLURE
JASON M. PETTITT
MARLIN R. SMITH III
MARK T. SUMMERLIN
JOHN L. THIESSEN
ERNESTO R. VILLALBA
JASON C. VINING
JAMES F. WRIGHTSON, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
BRIAN J. BANAZWSKI
NATHAN V. BEACH
TABITHA A. BOOTHSEAY
JAMES J. COLGARY, JR.
JONATHAN S. CONNELLY
YEVTTE A. DAVIS
LARIE A. DIXON
JASON W. DOWNS
JASON A. FLANAGAN
WENDELL R. HOLMES
CLAY I. JOHNSON
JOSE M. LAMBERTY
VIDAL C. LOZADA
SCOTT C. MILLHOUSE
BRANDON R. MONAGHAN
JARROD M. OZEREKO
MICHAEL A. SAMMATARO
JUSTIN K. STEPANCHICK
SPENCER V. TALLEY
ERIC J. THURKINS, JR.
CHRISTOPHER A. TILLEY
DAVID K. TIREY
GILBERT P. VIERA III
JAMES W. WALDREP
JOHNATHAN C. WALKER
WILLIAM M. WALKER
EVAN B. WILLIAMS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
SHANE L. BEAVERS
WILLIAM M. CORLEY
STEPHANIE K. HAYES
BRADLEY P. HENDERSON
LESLIE A. HUFFMAN
JEREMY N. HYLER
JEANINE A. LANG
ROBERT V. LIBERATO
ROBERT A. LINN
KAITLIN M. MCLEOD
ENDIA T. MENDEZ
DANIEL A. NELSON
MICHAEL J. PYNE
STEVEN J. RANCOURT
ALICIA M. SALERNO
PATRICK M. SALUKE
NICOLE A. SERRANO
LACEY M. SIZEMORE
DAMON R. SUMERALL
JOHN J. WILLIAMS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
LEVI DESJARLAIS
ANTHONY R. MURPHY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
MEERA CHEERHARAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
SELINA D. BANDY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
ROBERT W. BOASE
FRANK T. BORREGO
ADAM G. BORSMAN
CHRISTOPHER D. BRECKENRIDGE
PHILIP J. CAREY
EDWIN R. CATUBIG
REZA A. CHEGINI
MELISSA B. CHOPE
ROBERT S. COLLETT
SHAWN T. COLLINS
HERIBERTO CRUZ, JR.
JOHN M. DIAZ
WILLIAM D. DOUGHER
JEREMY D. ELMER
MICHAEL J. FELDHUES
OSCAR S. FLORES
THOMAS M. FOEGELLE, JR.
JAMES W. FOSTER
ANTHONY B. FRIES
PAUL K. GITZEN
PETRONILO S. GOMEZ
JOEL C. GORNY
GEORGE GROVNER III
ROGER D. HORNE
JACK L. HURLEY
ELOUISE M. HURST
FORREST B. JAMES III
TERRENCE U. JONES
CRAIG T. JOYCE
ROBERT G. KNAPP
EMMERICH V. LANGHAM
CRAIG H. MACDONALD
MARCUS J. MACHART
GREGORY P. MARTIN
RICHARD MARTINEZ
CHRISTOPHER A. MAY
BRIAN T. MUTSCH
TRAVIS L. SCOTT
BRADLEY W. SLAUGHTER, JR.
ARTHUR G. STEWART II
GREGORY L. TINER
JERIAHMI L. L. TINSLEY
JOE M. TOWLES
CHRISTOPHER VERDELL
WALTER J. ZAPF III
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
MATE W. AERANDIR
WILLARD E. BALL
CURTIS A. BELING, JR.
CHARLES F. BELL III
RONALD BETANCOURT
MATTHEW B. BIELIK
NICOLAS T. BOGAARD
CHRISTOPHER R. BOLTON
MICHAEL J. BONACORSA
JOSEPH C. BYROM
JUSTIN K. CONROY
STEPHEN D. CURTAS
NEIL J. CURTIS
EDWARD M. DAVID
CHRISTOPHER A. DUMAS
ERICA F. GOODWIN
WILLIAM L. V. GRENOBLE
CHRISTOPHER D. GUSTAFSON
ANDREW S. HAMILTON
FRANK C. KOVACS
HENRY D. LANGE
JOSE L. LEPESUASTEGUI
ROBERT A. MADDEN
HEATHER D. MADERIA
TROY M. MCCORMICK
PHILLIP P. MENARD VII
CHRISTOPHER M. MICHALSKI
BRIAN C. MOORE
MATTHEW D. MYERS
KRISTENE C. NEWBERRY
JOSEPH L. PRUCE
DIMITRI D. RANDALL
AMANDA B. RICHARDS
SCOTT E. RIFFLE
PAUL S. ROGERS
JOSEPH R. RUCK
ADAM D. SEILER
JAMES M. A. SPALL
DAVID J. TEBBE
EMMANUEL M. THOMANN
JEFFREY T. VANAK
FRANK A. WARNER
KHALIA S. WARNERBUTLER
GEOFFREY J. WEBER
DREW J. WHITTING
ROLLIE J. WICKS
JONATHAN M. WIENS
SHANE A. WINKER
REBECCA L. YOUNG
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
HANNAH L. BEALON
NATHAN A. BOEGER
ROBERT A. BUCKLES
ANTHONY C. CAGLE
NATHAN W. CONGER
JOHN M. CONNALLY
CHRISTOPHER S. DIAS
JONATHAN S. DURHAM
ANTHONY E. ELLIS
JOEL P. ELY
AARON J. GALL
CALVIN B. GATES
JOHNNIE L. GREEN, JR.
ROBERT C. GRIFFITH
ANTHEUS D. HEBERT
JAMES T. HERZOG
CORY S. HICKS
SCOTT T. HODGKINSON
CLIFTON E. JACKSON III
MATTHEW T. JOHNSON
RICHARD J. MASCOLO
RANDALL L. MCATEE
GREGORY C. MORRISON
SHAWN T. NEWMAN
CARLOS R. PESQUERA
ELAINE D. REID
RYAN A. RIPPEON
PETER J. SILVA, JR.
CARLTON B. SUMMERVILLE
ANTHONY O. THOMAS
EDWARD M. VALDEZ
JEFFREY P. WILCOX
JERRY L. WOODS
BILLY W. YOUNG
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
BRIELLE L. ADAMOVICH
KITAN BAE
KEVIN R. BARRETT
JASON J. BECKER
WILLIAM B. CAMPBELL
EREN D. CATALOGLU
MATTHEW O. CAYLOR
NICHOLAS A. COLE
MATTHEW G. DALTON
NEIL R. FLANDERS
KEITH A. GEHRKE
ELIAS J. GEORGE
DONNA R. GILBERT
MATTHEW E. HAGSTETTE
JULIA M. HUBERTZ
ADAM T. HUMPHREY
EDGAR W. JATHO III
CHRISTOPHER D. JOHNSON
JOSHUA D. KHOURY
MIRANDA C. LABASH
PETER B. MANZOLI
DANIEL E. MELEASON
NEIL A. MYERS
NATHANIEL D. RIGHTSELL
BRIAN M. SALTER
MICHAEL C. SCHAEFER
DAVID T. SPALDING
PHILIP J. STARCOVIC
JOSHUA C. STONEHOUSE
ROBERT W. THOMPSON
TONY V. H. TRAN
JULIEANNE K. WILKENING
DAVID T. WRIGHT
CHELSEY L. ZWICKER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
JOHN I. ACTKINSON
IAN P. ADAMS
BRANDON S. ALAMO
NICHOLAS E. ALFANO
JOHN R. ALLEN
TRAVIS S. AMERINE
ROBERT W. ANDERSON IV
GIEORAG M. ANDREWS
KEVIN C. ANTONUCCI
AARON S. ARKY
SERGIO A. ARMAS, JR.
ALYSSA B. Y. ARMSTRONG
COREY D. BARKSDALE
DAVID H. BARNHILL
JESSICA M. BARRIENTOS
CHARLES S. BARRS III
JOHN G. BARRY
CHAD D. BARTKUS
JEREMY D. BARTOWITZ
MATTHEW E. BAYER
DAVID R. BEAM
JOHN M. BEAR
CLAYTON C. BEAS
JAMES R. BEATY
JOHN P. BECKER
MATTHEW A. BECKER
MICHAEL J. BEER
BRIAN J. BERG
AARON G. BERGER
DANIEL J. BERRY
MASON W. BERRY
DYLAN C. BEYER
RYAN L. BIRKELBACH
ZACHARY A. BITTNER
GARTH J. BLAKELY
CHRISTOPHER H. BLAND
BRIAN K. BLASCHKE
SHANE R. BOBBE
NIKOLAUS J. BOCHETTE
THOMAS R. BOCK
DUSTIN L. BOEDING
ROBERT H. BOWER
MATTHEW D. BOYCE
MARSHALL T. BOYD
EDWARD H. BOYDSTON
RICHARD T. BRANNEN
JEREMY D. BRAUN
DOUGLAS A. BRAYTON
WALTER R. BRINKLEY, JR.
MATTHEW P. BROUILLARD
LUKE A. BROWN
NATHAN J. BROWNE
AMANDA G. BROWNING
ADAM L. BRYAN
GRANT T. BRYAN
JOSEPH BUBULKA
RALPH T. BUCKLES
WILLIAM W. BUHL III
IAN M. BURGESS
GABRIEL D. BURGI
CHRISTIANA M. BURGOS
ADAM R. BUSH
KYLE F. CALTON
ALBERT F. CALUAG
DAVID A. CAMP
TIMOTHY L. CAMPBELL
DAVID B. CANNADY
BENJAMIN R. CANTU
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.020 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3134 May 23, 2019
AIDAN CARRIGG
WILLIAM J. CARROLL
GRANT F. CARTER
PAUL M. CASE
MATTHEW E. CHANG
JAMES M. CHARAPICH
NATHANIEL J. CHASE
MICHAEL R. CHESNUT
LORI E. CHESTANG
JEFFREY T. CHEWNING
SCOTT F. CHIRGWIN
CLINTON J. CHRISTOFK
EARNEST F. CLARK, JR.
MICHAEL R. CLEES
CHRISTOPHER W. CLEVENGER
JASON E. COATES
ADAM COHEN
MATTHEW D. COLLINSWORTH
RANDY S. CONANT
BRIAN X. CONLAN
JASON A. CONLEY
ERIN N. CONNOR
CHRISTOPHER T. COOK
JOHN M. COOMBS
SEAN N. COOPER
WILLIAM R. COOPER
PETER E. CORNETT
WILLIAM G. COULTER
BENJAMEN L. COVERT
KELLY N. CRAFT
ANDREW C. CROUSE
KARI A. CUMMINS
GABRIELLE D. CUNNINGHAM
RYAN S. DAHLMAN
VIDAL DEJESUS
MATTHEW N. DELGADO
CHRISTOPHER M. DESCOVICH
GREGORY L. DESCOVICH
BROOKE H. DESROCHERS
MATTHEW T. DIEDERICH
GRAIG T. DIEFENDERFER
THOMAS E. DIGAN, JR.
MICHAEL F. DIMMITT
EMIL D. DINNOCENZO
PHILLIP S. DIPAOLO
THOMAS T. DIXON
DANIEL B. DOLAN
MATTHEW S. DOMINICK
JAMES J. DONCHEZ
KEVIN M. DORE
RICHARD A. DORSEY II
SEAN W. DOUGHERTY
CODY A. DOWD
RYAN R. DOWNING
PATRICK M. DURNIN
LUCAS R. EDWARDS
CARL A. ELLSWORTH, JR.
JORDAN D. ENETE
ERIC M. ETHERTON
THOMAS C. FALCONER
CHARLES R. FARLOW III
BILLIE J. FARRELL
MICHAEL R. FELBER
JESS B. FELDON
JACOB D. FERRARI
LEE R. FIKE
SEAN D. FINNER
WILLIAM F. FITZKEE
KELLY J. FITZPATRICK
PETER C. FLYNN
MARSHALL H. FOARD
WARREN H. FOGLER
JOSEPH M. FOSTER
TIMOTHY A. FOX
ALEXANDER J. FRANZ
DANIEL R. FREE
BRYAN M. GALLANT
ROWDY A. GARCIA
JONATHAN R. GARNER
NOMER I. GATCHALIAN
KENT A. GEBICKE
MATTHEW L. GEER
BENJAMIN C. GEIB
RYAN M. GERO
GRAHAM C. GILL
AMY E. GIRALDI
BENJAMIN J. GLASER
CARL R. GLASS
JOHN M. GLEASON
DEREK M. GOEBEL
ANDRE M. GOMEZ
ANGELA D. GONZALES
JOSHUA P. GOODIN
JUSTIN R. GROVER
LEIF E. GUNDERSON
ERIK H. GUSTAFSON
JOHN W. GUSTINE
SOPHIA M. HABERMAN
DOUGLAS G. HAGENBUCH
JAMES A. HALL
STEVEN A. HALLE
ERIK L. HALVORSON
JOSEPH S. HAMILTON
JEREMY M. HANSLER
BRANDON C. HARDIN
JUSTIN R. HARDY
DANIEL W. HARKINS, JR.
KEVIN M. HARRINGTON
CLARENCE S. I. HARRIS
STEFANIE J. HASEMAN
KARL HASSENFRATZ
CHRISTOPHER S. HATHAWAY
JOHN E. D. HEDRICK
CONOR L. HEELY
BENJAMIN N. HERRING
GRIFFIN HETRICK
LAWRENCE HEYWORTH IV
KYLE R. HICKMAN
DAVID P. HICKS
JAMES M. HIGGINS, JR.
MARC W. HINES
QUINCY W. HOCHARD
JOSHUA J. HODGE
ROBERT H. HODGES, JR.
NICHOLAS A. HOFFMANN
MATTHEW P. HOLLADAY
DANIEL K. HOLLINGSHEAD
JOHN E. HOLTHAUS
RODNEY B. HOOKS
GARETT T. HOUSTON
MICHAEL J. HUBER
JONATHAN A. HULECKI
JERALD T. HUMPHREY III
CHRISTINA L. HUMPHRIES
JAMES P. HUNT
DREW A. HUSTON
LUKE J. HUSTON
KENJI IGAWA
LUKE H. I. IM
PATRICK J. IMHOFF
ELY O. INFANTE
ISAIABENETTE E. INFANTE
KENNETH C. INGLE
CAMERON A. INGRAM
ROBERT B. INMAN
ROBERT D. IRELAND
BRIAN M. IRISH
JUSTIN E. IVANCIC
MATTHEW J. IWANCZUK
DILLON C. JACKSON
ALLEN W. JACOB
JOEL W. JACOBS
CARL D. JAPPERT
BRETT J. JASIONOWSKI
ALEXA F. JENKINS
JOSEPH G. JINDRICH
BRETT P. JOHNSON
KEITH A. JOHNSON
LAUREN M. JOHNSON
PHILLIP C. JOLLEY
BRANDON K. JONES
KEVIN A. JONES
JOHN W. KEEFE
MATTHEW T. KEEFE
CHRISTOPHER J. KEEN
CHRISTOPHER J. KEITHLEY
LUKE E. KELVINGTON
KEVIN J. KENNEDY
WESLEY G. KENNERLY
JAMES H. KEPPER IV
SAMEER KHANNA
JOSHUA C. KING
LUCIAN D. KINS
IAN J. KIRSCHKE
LEANDRA N. KISSINGER
REED A. KITCHEN
RYAN J. KLAMPER
KEITH F. KLOSTERMAN
ERIC J. KNEPPER
BRYAN J. KNICK
MICHAEL A. KNICKERBOCKER
DOMINIC J. KRAMER
KEVIN P. KREUTZ
BRYAN W. KRONCKE
DANIEL L. KURATKO
ANDREW A. LAMSON
AARON J. LEE
CLIFTON G. LENNON
TIMOTHY A. LEONARDI
JACOB A. LERNER
RANDALL J. LESLIE
TROY A. LEVERON
CHRISTOPHER J. LEWIS
JAMES J. LIGHT
SCOTT D. LIPPINCOTT
BRYAN R. LITTIN
CARNE M. LIVINGSTON
SEAN J. LOCKE
ALFRED W. LONG, JR.
JUNIOR C. LORAH
CORRY W. LOUGEE
ROBERT A. LOW
JOHN J. LOWERY
MICHAEL R. LUEBKERT
RALPH P. LUFKIN
KATIE J. LUNSER
MICHAEL J. LYNCH
JACOB E. MAGAN
KERRY M. MAJOR
ZUBIN J. MAJOR
LUDWIG MANN III
RYAN B. MANN
JEFFREY D. MARGALUS
BENJAMIN L. MARTINEZ
JOEL P. MARTINEZ
JORDAN A. MAYO
JARED B. MCCALEB
KEVIN K. MCCLELLAN
JOHN P. MCCRAY
CHRISTOPHER J. MCDONALD
CHRIS S. MCELROY
PATRICK F. MCINERNEY
KYLE S. MCVAY
CHRISTOPHER J. MERGEN
CHRISTOPHER C. MEYER
DAVID S. MICELI
JUSTIN L. MIDDLEBROOK
ADAM S. MILLER
BRANDON J. MILLER
MICHAEL J. MILLER
TRAVIS W. MILLER
SAMUEL C. MILLS
MATTHEW C. MOESER
DOMENICO MONACO
DAXTON H. MOORE
JAMES J. MOORE
JOSHUA J. MOORE
PHILLIP J. MOORE
MICHAEL G. MORAN II
DOUGLAS M. MOREA
MARCUS V. MORELAND
JOHN D. MORRIS IV
BRIAN M. MOWRY
SCOTTY L. MURPHY
KARL N. MURRAY
JAMES C. MUSE
BRAD W. MUSKOPF
SHAWN M. NAVINSKEY
JASON A. NERIO
JONATHAN D. NEW
JUSTIN A. NIXON
DAVIN C. OBRIEN
KYLE N. ODONOHOE
DAVID A. OECHSLEIN
RYAN J. OGDEN
CHRISTIAN L. OLSEN
DANIEL L. OSBOURN
MATTHEW J. OSTRYE
KENNETH C. PACKARD
WALTER J. PAK
PATRICIA A. PALMER
GARRETT T. PANKOW
DANIEL PEEL
JOHN C. PERKINS
CAROLYN K. PETERSON
KORY S. PETERSON
MATTHEW C. PIASECKI
CHRISTOPHER L. PICKEN
RYAN D. PIERCE
RYAN Z. PINEDA
JEFFREY R. PINKERTON
NICHOLAS R. PINKSTON
ANDREW W. PITTMAN
ANTHONY M. PIUNNO III
MARK K. POBLETE
CHRISTOPHER P. POLSON
JOSEPH W. POPE
DANA R. POTAK
JARED D. POWELL
TRAVIS B. POWELL
EDMUND J. POYNTON
KIRK T. PRESCOTT
JOSEPH F. PRESTON
REGINALD N. PRESTON
JOHN E. PRITCHETT
CHRISTOPHER W. PUTRE
NICHOLAS R. QUIHUIS
ROBERT T. RAGON
TREVIS L. RAINEY
JEFFREY W. RANSOM
JOSEPH F. REARDON
JUSTIN D. REEVES
CURTIS A. REISS
JEREMY B. REYNARD
ERIK S. REYNOLDS
JASON M. RICHTER
WILLIAM M. RIETVELD
MATTHEW F. RIGLER
MICHAEL P. RILEY
NICHOLAS A. ROA
DOUGLAS A. ROBB
DUSTIN W. ROBBINS
TAD J. ROBBINS
JAMES A. ROBERTS
JOHN N. ROBERTS
THOMAS M. ROBERTS
JEREMY D. ROBERTSON
MARY H. ROBINSON
CHRISTOPHER W. ROBISON
MICHAEL RODRIGUEZ
ERIC K. ROLFS
NIKOLAS G. RONGERS
CHRISTOPHER W. ROSE
RICHARD C. ROSENBUSCH
ADRIENNE L. ROSETI
BRIAN A. ROSS
JOHN H. ROSS
SAMUEL J. ROTH
THADDEUS RUSINEK
CRAIG T. RYAN
SETH D. SAALFELD
JONATHAN L. SABURN
JOSEPH H. SANDOVAL
MATTHEW H. SASS
GRAHAM C. SCARBRO
BLADE A. SCHALLENBERGER
ZACHARY P. SCHEETZ
TIMOTHY R. SCHEIDLER
DAVID M. SCHERR
NATHAN D. SCHILLING
JOSEPH R. SCHIPPERT
RORY J. SCHNEIDER
NICHOLAS J. SCHNETTLER
ERIC M. SCHWAB
JONATHAN P. SCOBO
VANCE D. SCOTT
ANDREW C. SERFASS
MATTHEW S. SHAW
JOHNATHAN E. SHEATER
JASON D. SHELL
ANTONIA K. SHEY
MICHAEL J. SIEDSMA
MICHAEL J. SIMMONS
STEPHANIE M. SIMONI
RICHARD W. SKINNELL
JARED L. SLABICKI
GABRIEL M. SLATER
RICHARD D. SLYE
GLENN J. SMITH
JOHANNES SMITH
JONATHAN D. SMITH
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.022 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3135
May 23, 2019
JUSTIN B. SMITH
JOSEPH P. SNELGROVE
JOSEPH W. SNYDER
PARINA SOMNHOT
JAVED P. SONDHI
DIRK C. SONNENBERG
CRYSTAL L. SOUCHEK
CHRISTOPHER J. SPEICHER
JASON W. SPRAY
JOSHUA C. STARR
PHILLIP A. STASO
CHARLES E. STEELE II
JAMES A. STEELE
ADAM M. STEIN
STEVEN L. STEINMETZ
EMILY C. STELLPFLUG
MICHAEL STENGEL
JONATHAN R. STEPHENS
GABRIEL T. STEVENS
WILLIAM C. STEWART
MARK P. STINES
ROBERT P. STOCHEL
JEFFREY C. STORER
NATHAN C. STUHLMACHER
DOUGLAS B. STUHLMAN
MICHAEL C. SULLIVAN
DENNIS A. SZPARA
THAD D. TASSO
DAVID L. TAYLOR
MARK A. TEDROW
DAVID R. TERRY
MICHAEL R. THERIOT
MATTHEW C. THIEN
ANDREW M. THOM
BRADLEY R. THOMPSON
MATTHEW G. THOMPSON
JAMES D. THORNTON
GALEN M. THORP
FRANCISCO TOBIO, JR.
DILLON J. TOLMIE
NEIL J. TOOHEY, JR.
DALE R. TOURTELOTTE
SAMUEL K. TRAIN
ARTURO TREJO
MICHAEL Q. TREMEL
BRIAN TRUONG
TERRY L. TURNER II
MICHAEL G. TYREE
TODD P. URKOWITZ
GREGORY M. VALDEZ
MATTHEW R. VANCE
CHRISTOPHER W. VANLOENEN
GREGORY T. VASILOFF
JOSLYN M. VENEY
FRANK P. VERDUCCI III
DANIEL J. VIRGETS
DAVID J. VITOLLO
CHRISTOPHER M. VONDERHEIDE
SHAWN M. VRABEL
CHAD C. WALKER
DESMOND K. WALKER
JAMES A. WALKER
KRISTOPHER WALKER
ADAM P. WALTERS
MATTHEW W. WALTERS
BRYAN T. WALTHERS
HUNTER D. WASHBURN
CHRISTOPHER F. WASKEY
GEORGE B. WATKINS
JAMES N. WATTS
JASON J. WEHMEYER
BENJAMIN R. WEISS
JOSHUA D. WEISS
ANDREW P. WHALEY
KATHLEEN R. WHITMAN
VES W. WHITTEMORE
STEPHEN V. WILLIAMS
MICHAEL J. WILLIS
MICHAEL K. WINTERS
MATTHEW W. WOLF
ANDREW C. WOOD
MATTHEW D. WOODS
DAVID A. WRIGHT
DAVID J. WRIGLEY
KARI E. YAKUBISIN
MARK E. YEDLOWSKI
CHRISTOPHER P. YOST
THOMAS J. YOUNG, JR.
TIMOTHY C. YUHAS
JOHN M. ZAHODNE
PETER J. ZETTEL
KENNETH W. ZILKA
GEORGE S. ZINTAK
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate May 23, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
WILLIAM BOOKLESS, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE PRINCIPAL
DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR, NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECU-
RITY ADMINISTRATION.
CHRISTOPHER FALL, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE DIRECTOR OF
THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MICHAEL J. FITZPATRICK, OF VIRGINIA, A CAREER
MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF
MINISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR.
JEFFREY ROSS GUNTER, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE AM-
BASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF
ICELAND.
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
JOHN BARSA, OF FLORIDA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT AD-
MINISTRATOR OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
RICHARD C. PARKER, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO BE AN
ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR OF THE UNITED STATES
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAMES S. GILMORE, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE U.S. REP-
RESENTATIVE TO THE ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY
AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE, WITH THE RANK OF AM-
BASSADOR.
KATE MARIE BYRNES, OF FLORIDA, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER–
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NORTH MACEDONIA.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
MICHAEL G. BAILEY, OF ARIZONA, TO BE UNITED
STATES ATTORNEY FOR THE DISTRICT OF ARIZONA FOR
THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
BRENT R. BUNN, OF IDAHO, TO BE UNITED STATES
MARSHAL FOR THE DISTRICT OF IDAHO FOR THE TERM
OF FOUR YEARS.
ERIC S. GARTNER, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF
PENNSYLVANIA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
TIMOTHY J. DOWNING, OF OKLAHOMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES ATTORNEY FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF
OKLAHOMA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
WILLIAM TRAVIS BROWN, JR., OF LOUISIANA, TO BE
UNITED STATES MARSHAL FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT
OF LOUISIANA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
MICHAEL BLAINE EAST, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO BE
UNITED STATES MARSHAL FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF NORTH CAROLINA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be brigadier general
COL. EDWARD S. SMITH
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS TO THE GRADE
INDICATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be brigadier general
COL. MARCUS B. ANNIBALE
COL. MELVIN G. CARTER
COL. ROBERT C. FULFORD
COL. JOSEPH A. MATOS III
COL. JASON L. MORRIS
COL. THOMAS B. SAVAGE
COL. DANIEL L. SHIPLEY
COL. JAMES B. WELLONS
COL. BRIAN N. WOLFORD
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. DUANE A. GAMBLE
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. SCOTT D. CONN
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE ARMY AND APPOINTMENT IN
THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 601
AND 7033:
To be general
GEN. JAMES C. MCCONVILLE
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RE-
SERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. MARC H. SASSEVILLE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. ERIC T. FICK
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS VICE CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE ARMY AND APPOINT-
MENT IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE IN-
DICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPOR-
TANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 601 AND 7034:
To be general
LT. GEN. JOSEPH M. MARTIN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. LAURA J. RICHARDSON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. ROBERT P. WHITE
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
VICE ADM. WILLIAM R. MERZ
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. ROSS A. MYERS
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS TO THE GRADE
INDICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPOR-
TANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. ERIC M. SMITH
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be general
LT. GEN. ARNOLD W. BUNCH, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be brigadier general
COL. DAVID A. HARRIS, JR.
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS AND APPOINTMENT IN
THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 601
AND 8033:
To be admiral
ADM. WILLIAM F. MORAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS VICE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS AND APPOINT-
MENT IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS
601 AND 8035:
To be admiral
VICE ADM. ROBERT P. BURKE
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS TO THE GRADE
INDICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPOR-
TANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. HERMAN S. CLARDY III
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. PETER B. ANDRYSIAK, JR.
BRIG. GEN. JONATHAN P. BRAGA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.024 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3136 May 23, 2019
BRIG. GEN. JOHN W. BRENNAN, JR.
BRIG. GEN. MIGUEL A. CORREA
BRIG. GEN. CLEMENT S. COWARD, JR.
BRIG. GEN. PATRICK J. DONAHOE
BRIG. GEN. CHRISTOPHER T. DONAHUE
BRIG. GEN. SCOTT L. EFFLANDT
BRIG. GEN. MICHAEL R. FENZEL
BRIG. GEN. DAVID J. FRANCIS
BRIG. GEN. BRADLEY T. GERICKE
BRIG. GEN. NEIL S. HERSEY
BRIG. GEN. LONNIE G. HIBBARD
BRIG. GEN. DIANA M. HOLLAND
BRIG. GEN. OMAR J. JONES IV
BRIG. GEN. STEPHEN J. MARANIAN
BRIG. GEN. MATTHEW W. MCFARLANE
BRIG. GEN. CHRISTOPHER O. MOHAN
BRIG. GEN. LAURA A. POTTER
BRIG. GEN. THOMAS A. PUGH
BRIG. GEN. ROBERT A. RASCH, JR.
BRIG. GEN. JOHN B. RICHARDSON IV
BRIG. GEN. KENNETH T. ROYAR
BRIG. GEN. STEPHEN G. SMITH
BRIG. GEN. THOMAS H. TODD III
BRIG. GEN. KEVIN VEREEN
BRIG. GEN. ROBERT F. WHITTLE, JR.
BRIG. GEN. DAVID WILSON
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RE-
SERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be brigadier general
COL. TRACY D. SMITH
THE FOLLOWING NAMED AIR NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RE-
SERVE OF THE AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12212:
To be brigadier general
COL. FRANK W. ROY
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. LEOPOLDO A. QUINTAS, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. KENNETH A. NAVA
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. FRANCIS J. EVON, JR.
BRIG. GEN. DAVID J. MIKOLAITIES
THE FOLLOWING ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE RE-
SERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. MARK J. SCHINDLER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADES INDI-
CATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. JOHN F. HUSSEY
BRIG. GEN. ANDREW J. JUKNELIS
To be brigadier general
COL. JAN C. NORRIS
COL. MICHAEL K. PYLE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be brigadier general
COL. NICOLE M. BALLIET
COL. JAMES A. BENSON
COL. BRIAN D. BOBO
COL. RODNEY C. BOYD
COL. ANDRE J. CHEVALIER
COL. MICHAEL N. CLEVELAND
COL. AMY F. COOK
COL. TIMOTHY D. COVINGTON
COL. RONALD A. CUPPLES
COL. JAMIE J. DAILEY
COL. RONNIE B. DELFIN
COL. THOMAS C. FRILOUX
COL. KEVIN A. FUJIMOTO
COL. DOYLE GILLIS, JR.
COL. CHARLES D. HAUSMAN
COL. CINDY H. HAYGOOD
COL. LYNN M. HENG
COL. LARRY L. HENRY
COL. SCOTT W. HIIPAKKA
COL. CHRISTINE L. HOFFMANN
COL. BRYAN M. HOWAY
COL. JACK A. JAMES
COL. NICK JOHNSON
COL. ROBERT J. LARKIN
COL. JOHN A. LEBLANC
COL. DAVID A. LOPINA
COL. CORWIN J. LUSK
COL. ROGER D. LYLES
COL. THOMAS H. MANCINO
COL. TIMOTHY S. MCLAUGHLIN
COL. ALBERTO L. MIRANDA
COL. JENNIFER R. MITCHELL
COL. JESSE M. MOREHOUSE
COL. ALAN B. NAUGHER
COL. JOHN T. OAKLEY
COL. DOUGLAS A. PAUL
COL. JOHN A. PELLERITI
COL. JOHN J. PERKINS
COL. DEAN A. PRESTON
COL. STEPHEN L. RHOADES
COL. CHRISTOPHER S. SANDISON
COL. STEPHEN E. SCHEMENAUER
COL. MATTHEW D. SMITH
COL. WALLACE E. STEINBRECHER
COL. ROBIN B. STILWELL
COL. CRAIG W. STRONG
COL. BLAIR E. TINKHAM
COL. MICHAEL A. TOUGHER III
COL. MICHAEL E. WEGSCHEIDER
COL. BRIAN F. WERTZLER
COL. RICHARD A. WHOLEY
COL. RICHARD D. WILSON
COL. JOHN J. WOJCIK
COL. JAMES A. ZOLLAR
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be brigadier general
COL. BRADLEY J. COX
COL. CARL C. DANBERG
COL. DANIEL H. DENT
COL. RALPH R. ROBOVSKY
COL. ADAM C. VOLANT
THE FOLLOWING ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF THE
UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE
RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADES INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be brigadier general
COL. ANDREW C. DIEFENTHALER
COL. JAMES M. JONES
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
REAR ADM. SEAN S. BUCK
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS TO THE GRADE
INDICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPOR-
TANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. JOHN J. BROADMEADOW
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS TO THE GRADE
INDICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPOR-
TANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. BRIAN D. BEAUDREAULT
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS TO THE GRADE
INDICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPOR-
TANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. GEORGE W. SMITH, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS TO THE GRADE
INDICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPOR-
TANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. ROBERT F. HEDELUND
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADES INDI-
CATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. RODNEY L. FAULK
BRIG. GEN. DEBORAH L. KOTULICH
BRIG. GEN. FREDERICK R. MAIOCCO
BRIG. GEN. GREGORY J. MOSSER
BRIG. GEN. JOHN H. PHILLIPS
BRIG. GEN. JOE D. ROBINSON
BRIG. GEN. ALBERTO C. ROSENDE
BRIG. GEN. RICHARD C. STAATS, JR.
BRIG. GEN. KEVIN C. WULFHORST
To be brigadier general
COL. TIMOTHY E. BRENNAN
COL. CARY J. COWAN, JR.
COL. CHRISTOPHER J. DZIUBEK
COL. JEFFREY M. FARRIS
COL. ROBERT E. GUIDRY
COL. MICHELLE A. LINK
COL. LAURENCE S. LINTON
COL. PAMELA L. MCGAHA
COL. STEVEN B. MCLAUGHLIN
COL. JOSEPH A. PAPENFUS
COL. JOSEPH A. RICCIARDI
COL. PATRICIA R. WALLACE
COL. DAVID P. WARSHAW
COL. STUART E. WERNER
COL. WANDA N. WILLIAMS
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. DAVID S. NAHOM
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10 U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. MARSHALL B. WEBB
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be brigadier general
COL. JACK M. DAVIS
COL. PAULA C. LODI
COL. MARK W. THOMPSON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. JEFFERY D. BROADWATER
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BRIDGET A. BRINK, OF MICHIGAN, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER–
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC.
JOHN JEFFERSON DAIGLE, OF LOUISIANA, A CAREER
MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF
MINISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF CABO VERDE.
MATTHEW S. KLIMOW, OF NEW YORK, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO TURKMENISTAN.
IN THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF CHRISTOPHER B.
ATHEARN, TO BE COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ERIKA O.
BERNARDO AND ENDING WITH CAROLE M. Y.
VILLAMARIA, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY
THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON APRIL 11, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH COREY T.
BEALS AND ENDING WITH CHRISTOPHER R. WILLIAMS,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
APRIL 11, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF DANIEL W. SCHLIEDER, TO
BE MAJOR.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH DEBORAH
J. ANGELES AND ENDING WITH KERI L. YOUNG, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 11,
2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF DOUGLAS P. WICKERT, TO
BE COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF RICHARD T. COONEY, JR.,
TO BE COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH TAMMIE A.
CANADA AND ENDING WITH DOUGLAS N. SCHNEEKLOTH,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
APRIL 29, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ALEX-
ANDER A. ADELEYE AND ENDING WITH DESBAH R.
YAZZIE, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON APRIL 29, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH LEO J.
BURKARDT AND ENDING WITH DAVID M. MAURER, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 29,
2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MICHAEL R.
CABRAL AND ENDING WITH RAY A. ZUNIGA, WHICH NOMI-
NATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 29,
2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF TANN S. JONES, TO BE
MAJOR.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.002 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3137
May 23, 2019
IN THE ARMY
ARMY NOMINATION OF THEODORE W. KLEISNER, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ROBERT W. HUGHES, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF LARRY R. JORDAN, JR., TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF KONTRINA S. PARK, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF MARCUS L. JORDAN, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ROBERT M. HUD-
SON AND ENDING WITH JAMES D. SIZEMORE, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 4,
2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JOHN E.
CALLIHAN II AND ENDING WITH JEFFREY F. RYAN,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
APRIL 4, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF BOGUSLAW A. AUGUSTYN, TO
BE COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JAMES R.
ACHENBACH AND ENDING WITH KEITH B. WEBER, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 4,
2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH KEITH A. ARCHI-
BALD AND ENDING WITH FRANK L. WITSBERGER, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 4,
2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH TIMOTHY B.
ALEXANDER AND ENDING WITH WING Y. YU, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 4,
2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF CHRISTOPHER L. METZGER, TO
BE MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JONATHAN W. ANDERSON, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATION OF BRIAN J. REED, TO BE COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF THOMAS J. WARGO, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF TERRENCE SOMMERS, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF DAVID M. ROZELLE, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF TONY L. DEDMOND, JR., TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF RAY G. MCCULLOCH II, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF CORY J. COUSINS, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF DAMON L. AUGUSTINE, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF PAUL J. STAMBAUGH, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF BRENTON D. GRIFFITH, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ANDREW E. RADBILL, TO BE
MAJOR.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH RICHARD ELIAS
AND ENDING WITH WILLIAM A. WATTS, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 29, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MARLON G.
BURNS AND ENDING WITH MICHAEL F. WOOD, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 29,
2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH PAUL R. BARBO
AND ENDING WITH MARK A. WURTH, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 29, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH FREDERICK W.
ALF III AND ENDING WITH MICHAEL D. LEWIS, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 29,
2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH TIMOTHY S.
ADAMS AND ENDING WITH DENNIS R. TURNER, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 30,
2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH CAROL A. AN-
DERSON AND ENDING WITH ABDUL R. WILLIS, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 30,
2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH THOMAS A. BRY-
ANT AND ENDING WITH ARTHUR F. YEAGER, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 30,
2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JEREMY J.
BEARSS AND ENDING WITH MICHELLE THOMPSON,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
APRIL 30, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF REBECCA A. BRAWNER, TO BE
MAJOR.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
MARINE CORPS NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH LESLIE
S. ALBERS AND ENDING WITH SEAN E. ZUKOWSKY, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 11,
2019.
IN THE NAVY
NAVY NOMINATION OF STEVEN J. DEBICH, TO BE COM-
MANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF NEIL PARTAIN, TO BE COM-
MANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF ROBERT G. GRAHAM, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF LAURA C. GILSTRAP, TO BE
COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF MICHEAL K. WAGNER, TO BE
CAPTAIN.
NAVY NOMINATION OF JASON T. STEPP, TO BE CAP-
TAIN.
NAVY NOMINATION OF STEPHEN C. PLEW, TO BE CAP-
TAIN.
NAVY NOMINATION OF MICHAEL D. KRISMAN, TO BE
CAPTAIN.
NAVY NOMINATION OF MICHAEL J. CIRIVELLO, TO BE
COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF ZACHARY J. CONLEY, TO BE
COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF BRENTONE E. HELBIG, TO BE
COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF PATRICK H. O’MAHONEY, TO BE
CAPTAIN.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH GUY W. JENSEN
AND ENDING WITH VENITA M. SIMPSON, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 4, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATION OF MARISSA A. MAYOR, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF ADAM C. HANCOCK, TO BE CAP-
TAIN.
NAVY NOMINATION OF JOHN J. EASTMAN, TO BE COM-
MANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF TERENCE B. MCADOO, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF DONALD A. SINITIERE, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ROBERT H. BAT-
TLE AND ENDING WITH KEITH E. WILBER, WHICH NOMI-
NATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 11,
2019.
NAVY NOMINATION OF RILEY A. WALLS, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF BENJAMIN D. ADAMS, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF JESSICA M. MILLER, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF FRANK R. BITTNER, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF DAVID M. GROVES, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COMMANDER.
FOREIGN SERVICE
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
KENNETH H. MERTEN AND ENDING WITH KEVIN M.
WHITAKER, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY
THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON MARCH 25, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATION OF LISA ANNE RIGOLI.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
TIMOTHY RYAN HARRISON AND ENDING WITH RACHEL
LYNNE VANDERBERG, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RE-
CEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD ON APRIL 10, 2019.
f
WITHDRAWAL
Executive Message transmitted by
the President to the Senate on May 23,
2019 withdrawing from further Senate
consideration the following nomina-
tion:
SCOTT A. MUGNO, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT SECRETARY OF LABOR, VICE DAVID MORRIS MI-
CHAELS, WHICH WAS SENT TO THE SENATE ON JANUARY
16, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A23MY6.005 S23MYPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E659
May 23, 2019
RECOGNIZING PH 79 FOR BEING
AWARDED THE JAMES BEARD
FOUNDATION AWARD
SPEECH OF
HON. HARLEY ROUDA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 22, 2019
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, today I’d like
to recognize Ph 79 for receiving the James
Beard Foundation Award in the America’s
Classics category. These awards are also
known as the ‘‘Oscars of the Food World’’,
and the America’s Classics category rewards,
‘‘quality food that reflects the character of their
communit[y]’’. Ph 79, founded by Liu Trn
and Th Trn, is in California’s 48th Congres-
sional District in Garden Grove and was one
of the original businesses that comprised what
would become Little Saigon.
Founded in 1982 as one of the first ph res-
taurants in Southern California, Ph 79, with
its cozy and modest atmosphere, belies the
nondescript corner of Garden Grove it sits on.
The restaurant introduced Americans to that
eponymous broth soup of Vietnamese cuisine,
served with meatballs, tenderloin, or tripe and
seasoned with bean sprouts, lime, mint
leaves, and pepper. But, of course, the res-
taurant continues to garner acclaim for its sig-
nature oxtail soup.
Just as the restaurant introduced Americans
to some of the best examples of Vietnamese
cuisine, Ph 79, if only during a meal, recon-
nected Orange County’s Vietnamese-Amer-
ican refugee community to their homeland—in-
cluding those who came seeking asylum in the
days and years following the Vietnam War and
the children and grandchildren of those refu-
gees. Those memories are reflected in the
restaurant’s name, which commemorates the
year that the Trns arrived in the United
States. Their story is a testament to entrepre-
neurship, hard work, and the strength of the
Vietnamese-American community.
With the Trn family continuing to prepare
the food and work the restaurant, Ph 79 re-
mains a fixture in Little Saigon and has played
a crucial role in pioneering Vietnamese cuisine
in California’s 48th District and across South-
ern California. Their James Beard Foundation
Award in the America’s Classics category is
richly deserved, and I give to them my warm-
est congratulations and best wishes for contin-
ued success.
f
THE WOMEN’S SUFFRAGE CENTEN-
NIAL AND THE EVERY WORD WE
UTTER STATUE
HON. JOE NEGUSE
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, this week
we honored the 100th anniversary of the
House passage of the 19th Amendment.
One hundred years ago on May 21st, the
House passed HJR 1 proposing an amend-
ment to the Constitution extending the right to
vote to women. It took just over a year to ratify
this amendment, forever enshrining women’s
right to vote in our Constitution.
At the forefront of this effort was a diverse
group of women. From their first official call for
equality at the Seneca Falls Convention,
across multiple generations, from farms and
villages throughout our nation, women orga-
nized, educated, and demanded enfranchise-
ment. Through this brave and enduring move-
ment, women received the vote.
It is in tribute to the fearlessly bold women
who championed equality in our nation that I
stand before you today, and ask for your sup-
port of H.R. 473 to establish the first outdoor
statue dedicated to the Suffrage movement in
Washington, D.C.
I want to ensure that my daughter and every
girl growing up alongside her feel represented
and are assured of the fundamental role they
play in our society. Passing H.R. 473 and es-
tablishing this monument is a critical way to
guarantee just that, and to inspire the next
generation to continue advocating for justice
and equality for one another and for all who
will follow them. I urge your support for H.R.
473.
f
RECOGNIZING JIM SARGENT OF
GREAT FALLS
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Jim Sargent of Great Falls, a
strong, reliable advocate for Montana’s agri-
cultural and veterans organizations as well as
Montana Special Olympics. As a media and
public relations professional, Sarge has volun-
teered countless hours to promote outreach
and fundraising efforts for these and other
civic groups.
‘‘Sarge,’’ as he is known to his friends and
radio listeners, grew up on a farm near Ches-
ter, in northcentral Montana. He began his
media career 28 years ago covering agri-
culture news and sporting events. Sarge says
the strength of Montana’s close-knit commu-
nities grounds his connection to ag and civic
organizations.
In his service to Montana’s agricultural orga-
nizations, Sarge is closely involved with the
Montana FFA Association and Montana 4-H,
helping promote and host events for both
groups. He also helped launch the Electric
City FFA chapter. Both organizations have
recognized Sarge with distinguished service
awards.
‘‘Jim has always jumped in with both feet
where ever we needed him,’’ said Jim Rose,
state advisor for Montana FFA. ‘‘He’s invalu-
able as a promoter, but I think his biggest con-
tribution is in the support and encouragement
he gives our youth. He helps them gain con-
fidence in their abilities and develop their lead-
ership skills.’’
A member of the Montana Farm Bureau
Federation, Sarge served as membership di-
rector, and he served as vice president of the
Cascade County Farm Bureau.
For the past five years, Sarge has helped
promote and host the Stand Down in Great
Falls. The event is a benefits fair for Montana
veterans and active-duty members of the mili-
tary. Organizations at the event provide serv-
ices, including clothing, health care services,
and other resources and benefits.
Sarge also contributes his time and talents
to Montana Special Olympics. A past presi-
dent of the Great Falls chapter, Sarge regu-
larly hosts events and fundraisers for the orga-
nization. Jim and Sue, his wife of 35 years,
also sponsor the Exceptional Rodeo for the
group. In 2018, the organization recognized
Jim as its Media Personality of the Year.
Madam Speaker, for selflessly dedicating
his time and talents to Montana’s civic organi-
zations, from our agricultural and veterans
groups to Montana Special Olympics, I recog-
nize Jim Sargent for his spirit of Montana.
f
QUIET COMMUNITIES ACT OF 2019
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Ms. MENG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the millions of Americans who suffer
from noise pollution caused by aircrafts. Noise
from aircraft is a constant source of torment,
even if you don’t live right near an airport, but
under a regular flight path. Chronic exposure
to excessive noise can lead to sleep depriva-
tion, task interruptions, among other negative
consequences which result in untold costs on
society in diminished work productivity.
That is why today, I introduced the ‘‘Quiet
Communities Act of 2019’’. This bill would re-
establish the Office of Noise Abatement and
Control (ONAC) in the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency. Noise abatement programs
across the country currently lie dormant. While
the EPA retains the authority to study noise
effects and make recommendations to mitigate
these effects and limit environmental exposure
to noise, it is unable to practically do so with-
out a functioning ONAC.
As population growth and air traffic continue
to increase, noise pollution is likely to become
an even greater problem in the future. Cur-
rently, the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) is tasked with air transport-related noise
concerns. It is responsible for developing flight
paths and regulating the airline industry, but
the FAA neither has the resources nor the
mission priorities to adequately address intol-
erable levels of noise.
Madam Speaker, it is time to allow the EPA
the resources it requires to resume its role in
combating noise pollution and include flight
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23MY8.042 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E660 May 23, 2019
noise in its jurisdiction by re-establishing
ONAC. This bill would also require the EPA
Administrator to carry out a study of airport
noise and examine the FAA’s selection of
noise measurement methodologies, health im-
pact thresholds, and abatement program ef-
fectiveness.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this critical legislation—so that Con-
gress does its part to help alleviate the avia-
tion noise issues that impacts the health and
welfare of Americans across our nation.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE MEDICARE
IVIG ENHANCEMENT ACT
HON. GEORGE HOLDING
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. HOLDING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the month of May as GBS/CIDP
Awareness Month. I encourage my colleagues
to join me in supporting those impacted by
CIDP and a related disorder, MMN, by co-
sponsoring H.R. 2905, the Medicare IVIG En-
hancement Act.
Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating
Polyneuropathy (CIDP) is a rare and debili-
tating autoimmune disorder that affects the pe-
ripheral nerves. Multifocal Motor Neuropathy
(MMN) is a related rare disorder in which
one’s nerves are attacked by their own im-
mune system. Both conditions have a dev-
astating impact on quality of life and require
intensive care.
While CIDP and MMN patients may eventu-
ally develop resistance to common treatments
and therapies, intravenous immune globulin
(IVIG) therapy, a form of plasma therapy, has
proven to be a safer and more effective alter-
native for treatment.
Please join me in supporting the Medicare
IVIG Enhancement Act, which would provide
CIDP and MMN patients the opportunity to re-
ceive IVIG therapy in their homes, which will
improve quality of life for patients and care-
givers alike.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF ROBERT
PEAR
HON. RICHARD E. NEAL
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
recognize the life and service of Robert Pear,
a longtime reporter for the New York Times,
and someone who has been critical to the
conversation around health care for more 40
years. Robert Pear was a fixture in the Halls
of Congress with his unassuming style, quiet
voice and insightful questions. Robert spent
countless hours in the Ways and Means Com-
mittee room reporting on health care debates
of our generation—the Clinton Health Care
legislation, Medicare Part D and the Affordable
Care Act. Robert’s knowledge and expertise
were unrivaled. His ability to take complex
issues and present them in a clear and con-
cise manner was a testament to his under-
standing of the policy but also what the Amer-
ican people needed to know.
Robert was born in our nation’s capital on
June 12, 1949 to Philip and Marion Pear.
Growing up in our nation’s capital, Robert was
immediately fascinated with policy and poli-
tics—even leading him to produce ‘‘The Pear
Press’’ while in high school. He later went on
to Harvard University, where he worked on the
literary magazine ‘‘The Advocate’’ and eventu-
ally graduated magna cum laude in 1971. He
would then go on to earn his Master of Philos-
ophy from Balliol College in Oxford, and a
Master’s in Journalism from Columbia Univer-
sity Graduate School of Journalism.
Robert joined The New York Times in 1981.
It was here that he was able to communicate
the complexity of issues such as health care
with remarkable clarity. It was his meticulous,
exacting reporting that most recently helped
keep the American public informed and en-
gaged on the failed Republican ‘‘repeal-and-
replace’’ efforts in 2017. Robert made it his
life’s duty to ensure the American people fully
understood the intricacies of Washington.
Over his 40 years with the New York Times,
he helped produce or support more than 6,700
New York Times articles.
Many a member or press secretary can re-
count stories of picking up the phone and
hearing Robert’s distinctive voice on the other
end of the line late at night or early in the
morning, working to glean one more insight or
critical piece of information for his next article.
His follow up questions on both the politics
and substance showed he keenly understood
the currents swirling well below the surface.
While Robert Pear will be missed by all who
had the pleasure to get to know him, he will
be remembered for his critical work, his per-
sistence, and his lifelong commitment to public
service and the American people.
f
IN HONOR OF STAFF SERGEANT
ROBERT STANTON
HON. DAVID LOEBSACK
OF IOWA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. LOEBSACK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and service of SSgt.
Robert Stanton of Davenport, Iowa. On De-
cember 11, 1942, at just 18 years of age,
Robert enlisted in the United States Marine
Corps and went on to serve as a Gunner in
Marine Scout Bomber Squad 142. On March
24, 1945, while flying over the Philippines, en-
gine trouble caused a forced landing on Panay
Island. SSgt. Stanton was taken as a prisoner
of war by Japanese forces and killed soon
after. SSgt. Stanton left behind his loving fam-
ily, including his father, Bryan Jennings Stan-
ton, and mother, Harriett Elizabeth Conley.
As a military parent, I am honored to recog-
nize the bravery of a fellow Iowan who an-
swered the call to serve at just 18 and trag-
ically died as a prisoner of war. Before serving
his country in World War II, Robert Stanton
was an amateur boxer known for his knockout
punch. A fighter to the end, SSgt. Stanton
made the ultimate sacrifice for his nation. For
his sacrifice, and the sacrifice of all the men
and women who have served in the United
States Armed Forces, we must never forget
their service and remain eternally grateful.
HONORING THE 100TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA, LOS ANGELES
HON. ADAM B. SCHIFF
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the University of California, Los An-
geles upon its centennial anniversary.
Established in 1919, UCLA is geographically
the smallest of the UC campuses, yet the larg-
est student body. Nearly one third of current
undergraduates are first-generation students
and more than 35% of current undergraduates
receive Pell Grants. Notably, UCLA is the
most applied to university for undergraduate
education and the highest ranked public uni-
versity in the country, according to the U.S.
News and World Report in 2019. UCLA’s
graduates have gone on to achieve great suc-
cess and merit in a variety of professional
fields, including 13 MacArthur Fellows, 3 Pul-
itzer Prize winners, and 38 Academy Award
winners. Impressively, UCLA has also pro-
duced 14 Nobel Prize winners, including Ralph
J. Bunche, the first person of color to receive
a Nobel Peace Prize.
It is no surprise to learn that UCLA is a vital
contributor to the California economy, contrib-
uting $11 billion annually, including $4 billion
in the Los Angeles area. During the 2016–
2017 school year alone, 251 patents were
issued to UCLA and 24 startup companies
launched using technologies developed at
UCLA. UCLA’s athletic programs are among
the best in the nation, with UCLA Bruins hav-
ing won 261 Olympic medals, 133 of which
were gold.
UCLA is a wonderful resource to the Los
Angeles region, California, and the nation as a
whole, providing an outstanding education to
students from a variety of backgrounds.
It is my pleasure to honor UCLA for marking
100 years of exceptional achievement. I ask
all members to join me in commending their
accomplishments.
f
HONORING JUDGE WILEY DANIEL
HON. JOE NEGUSE
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, today I offer
you my heartfelt condolences to the Daniel
family on the loss of their father and husband
Judge Wiley Daniel. Judge Daniel was a chief
judge for the U.S. District Court of Colorado
and was my home state’s first African-Amer-
ican federal judge.
Judge Daniel was not only an incredible
legal mind, but also a role model for aspiring
attorneys. I was lucky enough to try several
cases in Judge Daniel’s court, and found him
to be tough and fair-minded, always pushing
the attorneys before him to present the best
and most sound case that we could put for-
ward. He made each of us better at our craft.
Being a ‘‘first’’ for any community is difficult
and brave, but if the work stops at getting
through the door, then it does not leave a true
legacy. Judge Daniel was the first through but
then spent so much of his energy ensuring
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K23MY8.002 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E661
May 23, 2019
that door remained open and welcoming for
every generation that followed. In my mind, his
legacy is not just that he was the first, it is that
he ensured he would not be the last.
I am grateful to have known Judge Daniel
and ask that my colleagues join me in sending
condolences to the family of this pioneer of
our legal system and inspiration to our entire
nation.
f
IN HONOR OF THE VA ANN ARBOR
HEALTHCARE SYSTEM FOR
THEIR EXEMPLARY SERVICE
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the VA Ann Arbor
Healthcare System for their critical work pro-
viding medical services to our nation’s vet-
erans. Their continued excellence in patient-
centered healthcare is worthy of commenda-
tion.
Since its foundation in 1953, the VA Ann
Arbor Healthcare System has provided essen-
tial healthcare services to veterans throughout
Michigan and northwestern Ohio. The main
campus operates as a referral center for com-
plex specialty care and boasts state-of-the-art
facilities and several satellite outpatient clinics.
Beyond the medical care it offers, VAAAHS is
a major research center, participating in over
400 active studies in basic science, health
services, and rehabilitation.
The VA Ann Arbor Healthcare System
stands as a role model in providing exemplary
healthcare to our nation’s veterans. Their work
has had a profound impact on Michigan and
Ohio by ensuring access to preventive and ac-
tive treatment. We thank VAAAHS and its staff
for their continued dedication to providing
high-quality medical services to veterans, sup-
porting clinical research, and promoting edu-
cation on public health programs. We also
congratulate the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare
System as they begin construction of a new
veteran welcome center. Once finished, this
new structure will expand the available capac-
ity of the medical center and expedite critical
care for its visitors.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the VA Ann Arbor Healthcare
System for their exemplary work in healthcare
access, education, and research. Their efforts
have been instrumental in ensuring care for
the brave servicemen and women that protect
our country.
f
CELEBRATING THE 100 YEAR
ANNIVERSARY OF UCLA
HON. KEVIN McCARTHY
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the
University of California, Los Angeles, which
has distinguished itself as one of the finest in-
stitutions of higher learning in the State of
California and across the country.
In the past 100 years, 14 Nobel Prize win-
ners, 13 MacArthur Fellows, 9 National Medal
of Science winners, 3 Pulitzer Prize winners, 1
Field Medalist, 2 Turing Award winners, and
38 Academy Award winners have called UCLA
home. Every year, UCLA receives more appli-
cations for admission than any other univer-
sity. It is for these reasons and more that
UCLA was ranked this year as the number
one public university in the country by U.S.
News and World Report.
The influence of UCLA and its impact on
California is wide-reaching and expansive.
Even in my district, two hours away from
Westwood, thousands of constituents call
UCLA their alma mater. UCLA’s influence in
my district cannot be overstated. For many
students who are unfamiliar with the chal-
lenges of applying for college, UCLA provides
mentorship and a tangible path to higher edu-
cation, actively organizing workshops and
school visits to guide them. UCLA does not
limit itself to just educating the next generation
of leaders; it has tracked groundwater loss in
my district and throughout the Central Valley,
demonstrating the need to expand our current
water storage and infrastructure. As many
people know, UCLA’s Ronald Reagan Medical
Center provides world-class care for countless
individuals, but it also directs clinical trials
back home in my district—ensuring that the
residents of the 23rd District receive cutting-
edge treatment and care. On behalf of Califor-
nia’s 23rd District, I am proud to congratulate
UCLA on 100 years of great accomplishments.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE LIFE,
LEGACY, AND SERVICE OF MAS-
TER SERGEANT DONALD
CHARLES BETTINE
HON. MIKE GALLAGHER
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life, legacy, and service of
Master Sergeant Donald Charles Bettine.
MSG Bettine passed away on Monday, April
29, 2019 at the age of 89. He was born in
Green Bay on August 12, 1929 to Charles and
Elva Bettine.
After graduating from Central Catholic High
School in 1947, he enlisted in the U.S. Army.
Upon completion of basic training, MSG
Bettine went to Japan where he was an in-
structor in the Eight Army Ordinance School.
After a brief return to the U.S., he was de-
ployed to Korea to serve in the Korean War.
As a part of the 3rd Infantry, he participated in
the evacuation of Hungnam in 1950. MSG
Bettine charged enemy snipers in a frontal at-
tack, allowing his platoon to advance forward.
For this display of bravery, he earned his
Bronze Star with the ‘‘V’’ for Valor. Dubbed
the ‘‘Christmas Miracle,’’ the incredible evacu-
ation resulted in the rescue of nearly 200,000
troops and civilian refugees.
After his service in the Korean War, MSG
Bettine was stationed near Moscow, Idaho
where he met the love of his life, Evelyn Sum-
ner. They were married on December 19,
1953, and shortly after relocated to Germany,
where he was stationed for 4 years. Following
his time in Germany, he was stationed in sev-
eral places across the U.S., and was later
sent to Korea for a second time where he was
stationed in Seoul. During his time in Seoul,
MSG Bettine became heavily involved in one
of the local orphanages, dedicating his time to
the children there. Upon his return to the
states, MSG Bettine was assigned to Fort
McCoy. He retired from active duty in 1968.
Following his retirement from active duty,
MSG Bettine continued his service to others
as the JrROTC instructor at Premontre High
School in Green Bay, WI where he taught for
over 20 years. Affectionately known as
‘‘Sarge,’’ MSG Bettine strived to instill the val-
ues and lessons he learned during his time in
the military to his students. MSG Bettine took
an active interest in his students’ futures, and
often followed their careers through the Armed
Forces. It was not unusual for him and his stu-
dents to stay in touch years after their gradua-
tion.
MSG Bettine joined the Knights of Colum-
bus in his late 20s, and he was ultimately hon-
ored for over 60 years of service. In line with
his character and values, he joined the
Knights of Columbus to serve his community
beyond his service in the military. He was a
Fourth Degree Knight and served as District
Deputy, Programs Coordinator, and District
Marshall.
Words cannot justly thank MSG Bettine for
his many years of service to our country. My
sincerest condolences go to his family.
f
BIRTHDAY OF DR. IRENE HUSTON
HON. MARK DeSAULNIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the service of a long-time
community leader, Dr. Irene Huston.
In her early years, Irene and her family
moved from Mississippi to the Bay Area in the
‘‘Second Great Migration’’ to escape racist
labor and housing practices. Irene attended
Contra Costa College before earning a Bach-
elor’s Degree from International Seminary in
Plymouth, Florida. Today, Dr. Huston holds
graduate degrees from Phoenix University,
Antioch Christian University, and Elbon-Solu-
tions College of Ministry, as well as an hon-
orary degree from the National Theological
Seminary of the Commonwealth University.
Although her interests and successes cast a
wide net—she has served as a lecturer at San
Jose State University, opened her own cloth-
ing boutique, and authored several books and
a play—her focus has always been the
church.
Dr. Huston has been in the ministry for 50
years, and has devoted the majority of this
time to supporting women and families. She is
internationally ordained and has ministered
around the world, including in India, Nigeria,
England, and Israel. Additionally, at home in
California, she worked with the West Contra
Costa Unified School District’s adult education
program.
Irene has founded a number of faith-based
service organizations, including Irene’s Wom-
en’s Faith Foundation, and she continues her
efforts today to motivate and empower young
women and serve her community.
Please join me in wishing Dr. Irene Huston
a happy 81st birthday, and in thanking her for
a life of service and dedication.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23MY8.003 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E662 May 23, 2019
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF JEFFREY MCDONALD OF CAR-
MEL, INDIANA
HON. SUSAN W. BROOKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the life and legacy of Jef-
frey McDonald, an enterprising entrepreneur,
youth mentor, and community leader. Born in
Woodland, California on April 5, 1967, to Alan
and Mary McDonald, Jeffrey would come to
Indiana and graduate from Indiana University,
earning a Bachelor of Science in Business
and Marketing. Jeffrey was known throughout
his community for his selfless leadership in
business and his desire to help those in need
of guidance to reach their full potential.
As longtime lauded business leaders in their
community, Jeffrey and his wife Shelli McDon-
ald started their e-commerce pet food and
treat supply business, Raw Paws Pet Food, in
2014. Their mission in business was not only
to provide a profitable living for themselves
and their employees, but to create products
that better served the health of pets through
proper nutrition and diet. Sourcing their prod-
ucts from responsible and ethical farms they
have become leaders in their industry.
Beyond his many successes in the business
world, Jeffrey’s impact was also felt through-
out his community through his participation
and exemplary leadership in philanthropic or-
ganizations. Jeffrey served on the boards of
many community groups including The United
Way, The Indianapolis Zoo, and The Young
Presidents’ Organization (YPO). Jeffrey’s com-
munity engagement allowed him to pursue his
passions of animal welfare and the empower-
ment of women. His remarkable talent for con-
necting with people ensured that his vital work
with these organizations made a lasting im-
pact on Central Indiana, not to be forgotten.
His achievements show us the immense in-
fluence one person can have within their com-
munity and inspire us to aim higher. Jeffrey
had the unique ability to see the best in every
one of life’s situations. His caring and genuine
nature put those around him at ease, and his
zest for life was infectious to those in his pres-
ence.
On behalf of Indiana’s Fifth Congressional
District, I extend my deepest condolences to
Jeffrey’s wife Shelli, and numerous friends and
relatives who mourn his loss.
f
IN HONOR OF KARL W. MICHLER
HON. ANDY BARR
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. BARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of a special man, Mr. Karl
Michler of Lexington, Kentucky. Mr. Michler is
part of a special group of heroes that served
our nation during World War II. Mr. Michler
celebrates his 99th birthday on June 5.
Mr. Michler enlisted in the service at the age
of 22. He was a proud member of the United
States Army. He served as a medical corps-
man. His assignments took him to locations in
the United States, France and Germany. He
served for 4 years and was honorably dis-
charged in February of 1946.
Mr. Michler returned home and married
Jean Vogt. Following his service in the Army,
he took over the family business, Michler’s,
which was started by his grandfather Carl
Michler in 1900. He continued that very suc-
cessful business for many years. His son,
John, and later his grandson, Robin, kept the
business growing and thriving.
Mr. Michler and his fellow veterans are true
heroes. As members of the ‘‘Greatest Genera-
tion’’, they willingly served to protect and de-
fend the freedoms that we enjoy today. I am
humbled to honor the service of Mr. Karl W.
Michler and to celebrate his upcoming 99th
birthday before the United States Congress.
f
RECOGNIZING PRESIDENT HARRY
S. TRUMAN’S LEGACY IN FIRE
PREVENTION, FIRE SAFETY, AND
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
HON. BILL PASCRELL, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, between
May 5 and 7 of this year, national leaders rep-
resenting every facet of the fire service gath-
ered together in Key West, Florida for three
days of discussions on the future of fire pre-
vention, public education, and fire service
challenges in general. They attended the
event at the invitation of the Harry S. Truman
Foundation. Each year, the Truman Founda-
tion conducts an annual symposium at the
Truman Little White House to reflect on the
legacy of our nation’s 33rd President. The
theme of the 2019 symposium was, ‘‘Truman’s
Legacy Towards Fire Prevention, Fire Safety,
and Historic Preservation.’’ In 1947, President
Truman convened a conference on fire pre-
vention following a series of devastating fires
that captured the attention of the nation. Hun-
dreds of representatives from government,
business, non-government organizations, and
the fire service attended the Washington con-
ference. In his remarks to the attendees, Tru-
man stated, ‘‘Safety from fire should not be a
topic for discussion during only one or two
weeks of the year. It is definitely a year-round
public responsibility.’’ Seventy-two years later,
President Truman’s words inspired the assem-
bly of prominent fire service leaders to meet in
Key West.
The Truman Foundation asked the National
Fallen Firefighters Foundation to serve as a
co-facilitator of the recent program. By every
account, both organizations did an exemplary
job in conducting the event. Presentations by
notable fire service leaders addressed a broad
range of issues that span the important work
in fire prevention. For example, on the third
day, the National Fallen Firefighters Founda-
tion conducted a forum to identify key areas
for advancing fire prevention in our nation.
Watching the recent success in Florida, I re-
main so impressed by the ability of the na-
tional fire organizations to work together to ad-
dress the needs of firefighters and public safe-
ty. This ability is something I have witnessed
throughout my years as a co-Chair of the Con-
gressional Fire Services Caucus.
Seventy-two years have passed since the
1947 conference, and during that time, the
number of victims dying in fires has decreased
to approximately 3,000 each year. This isn’t a
coincidence. But the fire service leaders as-
sembled in Key West this month didn’t see
this as an achievement; instead, they recog-
nized that more work needs to be done.
The strength of our nation has always been
the indomitable spirit of our citizens. The fire
service personifies that spirit. I commend the
Harry S. Truman Foundation and the National
Fallen Firefighters Foundations for bringing to-
gether our nation’s leading fire officials. And I
pledge my continued support for the more
than one million firefighters across the nation
who are prepared to respond to the next call
for help and to the family members who lose
loved ones in the line of duty. God bless all of
them.
f
HONORING JOANN GAMA
HON. VICENTE GONZALEZ
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor JoAnn Gama, an educa-
tor, innovator, and leader.
JoAnn Gama was born and raised on the
north side of Houston, Texas. In 1997, she
joined Teach For America, committing two
years to teaching in public schools in under-
served communities. After moving to the Rio
Grande Valley, JoAnn enrolled at the Univer-
sity of Texas-Pan American, now known as
the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley,
and eamed her master’s degree in Edu-
cational Leadership.
In 1998, JoAnn co-founded the IDEA Acad-
emy within the Donna Independent School
District with fellow Teach For America corps
member, Tom Torkelson. After one year as a
‘‘school within a school,’’ JoAnn and Tom ap-
plied for a state charter. Nearly 20 years ago,
in August of 2000, they opened the IDEA
Academy Charter School with 150 students,
grades 4 through 8.
JoAnn is the co-founder and chief of
schools, and led many efforts to replicate the
original school. Currently, IDEA Public Schools
educate nearly 45,000 students in 79 schools
across five regions—the Rio Grande Valley,
San Antonio, Austin, El Paso and Southern
Louisiana. In 2017, U.S. News & World Report
ranked IDEA Donna, IDEA Quest, and IDEA
Frontier in the top 1 percent of all public high
schools in the United States and the top 40
best public charter schools in the nation.
Madam Speaker, JoAnn Gama has worked
tirelessly to give countless students the tools
they need to succeed. She is a pillar of our
community and an example to us all. It is an
honor to represent a selfless, committed indi-
vidual like her who has forever changed and
strengthened the foundation of education in
South Texas. I wish JoAnn, her husband
Juan, and her children Gaeland and Jimena
the best in their future endeavors.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY8.005 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E663
May 23, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 100TH
BIRTHDAY OF TOMMIE LOUISE
CAUDLE
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I ask for the House’s attention to recognize
the 100th birthday of Tommie Louise Caudle.
Ms. Caudle was born on June 5, 1919 to
J.H. Caudle and Sallie White Caudle in
Sylacauga, Alabama. She graduated from
Sylacauga High School in 1937 and started
working at Southern Bell Telephone as a tele-
phone operator at age 16.
She attended Judson College her freshman
year during which she was a member of Bap-
tist Young People’s Union. She also attended
the University of Alabama. Ms. Caudle worked
for South Central Bell until she retired in 1974.
Madam Speaker, please join me in wishing
Ms. Caudle a happy 100th birthday.
f
WELCOMING CHAPLAIN THOMAS E.
FUSSELL, JR.
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, it is my honor
to recognize today’s guest chaplain, Chaplain
Thomas E. Fussell, Jr., and welcome him to
the United States House of Representatives.
Chaplain Fussell, a major in the United
States Air Force, is currently assigned to the
45th Space Wing, stationed at Patrick Air
Force Base in Brevard County, Florida. The
duties of the 45th Space Wing—including sup-
porting the Department of Defense (DOD), the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion (NASA), and commercial manned and un-
manned space programs at Patrick Air Force
Base—are critical to the success of space pro-
grams operating out of Cape Canaveral.
As Deputy Wing Chaplain to the 45th Space
Wing, Chaplain Fussell advises commanders
and first sergeants, ensures the free exercise
of religion, and provides spiritual care, moral
and ethical advice, and pastoral care and
counseling to all military personnel and their
families. Along with other chaplains serving in
the Space Command, he is part of the spiritual
backbone of American operations in space.
Chaplain Fussell received his Master of Di-
vinity degree from Asbury Theological Semi-
nary in 2000. In 2004, he was ordained as an
elder in the South Georgia Conference and, in
2005, he commissioned as a chaplain.
In light of his many years of service, I am
thankful that Chaplain Fussell could be with us
today and offer a prayer in anticipation of Me-
morial Day. May the Lord bless all the brave
men and women in uniform who have given
their lives to protect our great nation, the
United States of America.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. MICHAEL R. TURNER
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. TURNER. Madam Speaker, on May 22,
2019, I was unable to vote due to a classified
briefing. Had I been present, I would have
voted YEA on Roll Call No. 222.
f
RECOGNIZING LAVEDA BROWN
HON. BILL FLORES
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. FLORES. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Laveda Brown of Waco, Texas,
who is retiring as the president of the Cen-Tex
African American Chamber of Commerce.
Laveda comes from a strong business back-
ground and knows the value of hard work.
Prior to joining the chamber, Laveda worked
as a Procurement Specialist/Business Consult-
ant at McLennan Community College Small
Business Center and the Caruth Small Busi-
ness Development Center at Abilene Christian
University.
Her successful history of business develop-
ment made her a compelling choice to lead
the Cen-Tex African American Chamber of
Commerce. Laveda’s many years of experi-
ence in minority business certification, pur-
chasing, economic development, and govern-
ment contracting has helped her provide many
small businesses with the tools to succeed.
When Laveda assumed leadership of the
Chamber in 2007, its membership hovered
around 30 members and numbers were dwin-
dling quickly. Thanks to her efforts, member-
ship is now above 250 members and their fi-
nancial support has expanded dramatically.
Some of her biggest contributions, however,
go beyond numbers. Under Laveda’s direction,
the chamber opened Esther’s Closet, an initia-
tive to assist unemployed women by providing
interview and workplace clothing at no cost.
Additionally, Esther’s Closet assists with re-
sume writing, interview skills, job performance,
and financial management. Since its grand
opening in 2016, Esther’s Closet has helped
more than 400 individuals and provided more
than 5,000 outfits.
In addition to her chamber duties, Laveda
has been a member of many organizations in-
cluding the Waco Education Alliance, the
Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative,
the City of Waco Policy Academy, and the
Junior League Advisory Committee. She also
served on the boards of the City of Waco Pub-
lic Improvement and Development, the Texas
Partnership for Out of School Time, and the
YMCA of Central Texas. She was also the
Vice President of the Texas Association of Af-
rican American Chambers of Commerce.
She is a person of great courage, faith, in-
sight and wisdom who has a very unselfish
and loving spirit. She has dedicated her life to
sharing her wealth of knowledge and experi-
ence to enlightening and motivating those
around her to do their best. Laveda has a way
of getting others to see the big picture and to
overcome their differences in order to work to-
gether for the common good of all. Her great-
est gift is her passion for encouraging and em-
powering others.
Madam Speaker, I would like to thank
Laveda Brown for her many years of impactful
service to our Central Texas community. I
wish her the best in her future endeavors and
look forward to seeing the Cen-Tex African
American Chamber of Commerce’s continued
success.
I have requested that a United States flag
be flown over our Nation’s Capitol to recog-
nize the community service and accomplish-
ments of Laveda Brown.
I urge all Americans to continue praying for
our country, for our veterans, for our military
men and women who protect us, and for our
first responders who keep us safe at home.
f
IN HONOR OF REVEREND FRAN
HAYES FOR HER EXEMPLARY
SERVICE TO THE COMMUNITY OF
DEARBORN
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Reverend Fran Hayes for
her tireless work in service of the residents of
Dearborn, Michigan. She has been an instru-
mental member of the community as the head
of the Dearborn Area Interfaith Network.
Reverend Fran Hayes has served the Dear-
born community for 22 years as the pastor of
Littlefield Presbyterian Church. A graduate of
Princeton Theological Seminary, Reverend
Hayes dedicated her career to celebrating di-
versity of faith and culture. As the head of the
Dearborn Area Interfaith Network; she has
made a concerted effort to celebrate the vi-
brant, diverse community of Dearborn by
building deep relationships between Christians
and Muslims. Under her leadership, the
church has engaged in deliberate efforts to
educate parishioners in Islamic scripture
through interfaith programs and activities.
Reverend Hayes’ work represents a cele-
bration of creed and culture. A staunch advo-
cate for diversity, Reverend Hayes leaves a
legacy of inclusivity and justice through her
continued efforts to transcend barriers of faith
and culture. We thank Reverend Hayes for her
commitment to embracing people of all faiths
and cultures and we congratulate her on her
retirement. Her dedicated leadership will be
missed, but we wish her good health and
every happiness in her retirement years.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Reverend Fran Hayes for her
exemplary service to Dearborn. Her work cele-
brating diversity of faith is worthy of com-
mendation.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 150TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE LAFAYETTE
CHURCH OF CHRIST
HON. JOHN W. ROSE
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Lafay-
ette Church of Christ in honor of their 150th
anniversary on June 19, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23MY8.009 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E664 May 23, 2019
A longstanding pillar in the Macon County
community, the Lafayette Church of Christ is
widely known for its heart for service, love for
others, and commitment to Christian prin-
ciples. The congregation was founded by
Isaac T. Reneau on June 19, 1869. Upon its
founding, members met in various locations
throughout Macon County. On January 11,
1874, the congregation held its first worship
service in their first building on the town
square in Lafayette. In 1963, a new building
was constructed at 212 Church Street in La-
fayette, which is where the congregation con-
tinues to meet. Today, that building is now
part of a 9.5-acre campus that also includes a
new auditorium, Fellowship Hall, and Refuge
building for youth activities. However, the con-
gregation’s most enduring legacy will be its
commitment to spreading the Gospel through-
out its community.
The Lafayette Church of Christ has a rich
heritage of upstanding families and strong be-
lievers. In efforts to care for their neighbors,
the congregation offers a food pantry, utility
bill assistance, furniture for those in need, and
eager volunteers ready to answer the call of
those in their community. Following the dev-
astating tornado that hit Lafayette in 2008, it is
well remembered that the members of the
congregation eagerly coordinated response
crews to those needing assistance and their
fellowship hall served as a resource distribu-
tion center for the community.
The Lafayette Church of Christ is faithfully
led by Elders Bobby Bransford and Barry
Doss, along with Pulpit Minister Jeny Mercer
and Youth Minister Cameron Miller. Today, the
Lafayette Church of Christ is comprised of 250
members and routinely hosts local chapters of
the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Cub Scouts, and
American Red Cross blood drives. The con-
gregation faithfully follows God’s Biblical com-
mands and seeks to be Christ’s church in its
community. The congregation is anchored in
knowing that God gave His only begotten Son
so that through baptism, we might live. I pray
that this group of Christians may continue
under our Father’s protection in preaching,
teaching, and sharing the great story of Christ.
To my House colleagues today, I hope you
will join me in congratulating the Lafayette
Church of Christ on 150 years of service to
the community and unwavering faith. I am
confident their impact on Macon County will
continue for generations to come.
f
SUPPORTING THE SECURE ACT
HON. TERRI A. SEWELL
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise today in support of the Setting Every
Community Up for Retirement Enhancement
Act—The SECURE Act.
Almost 60 percent of Americans do not
have any retirement account assets. That
means they haven’t put away a single dollar
for retirement. Not one.
The SECURE Act includes many provisions
to expand opportunities for Alabamians to in-
crease their retirement savings.
The bill: makes it easier for small busi-
nesses to offer retirement plans to their em-
ployees; provides retirement benefit opportuni-
ties to home care workers; allows long-time,
part-time workers to participate in a 401(k)
plan; and much more.
Also included in the SECURE Act is a provi-
sion that I introduced with my colleagues ear-
lier this month. It will deliver an urgently-need-
ed fix for Gold Star military families who saw
a drastic tax hike as a result of the Republican
tax bill.
The SECURE Act goes a long way in ensur-
ing that Americans get the economic security
they deserve, and I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes.’’
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF PHYLLIS WATT WUSTENBERG
HON. KURT SCHRADER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. SCHRADER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and legacy of Phyllis
Watt Wustenberg a constituent of mine from
Bay City, Oregon who recently passed away
at the age of 92.
Phyllis was a remarkable woman and be-
loved member of the community who leaves
behind an incredible legacy of a life that was
dedicated to service. The Tillamook County
area won’t be the same without her. Today I
would like to include in the RECORD Phyllis’
obituary and extend my sincere condolences
to Phyllis’ family and the people of Tillamook
County.
OBITUARY FOR PHYLLIS WATT WUSTENBERG
Phyllis Wustenberg, age 92, passed away
peacefully on May 7, 2019 while seated at the
desk of her home in Bay City, OR. There
were messages on the answering machine,
minutes and notes from recent nonprofit
board and public commission meetings, and
treasured memories from five generations of
her Oregon family within arm’s reach. Phyl-
lis Watt Wustenberg—pioneer, matriarch,
scholar, mink rancher, gardener, civic lead-
er, philanthropist, sorority sister, and great
grandmother—was busy living right to the
last moment. It was a life well lived, dedi-
cated to the betterment of her family, com-
munity, and state she loved so dearly.
She was born July 25, 1927 in Vancouver,
WA to Robert, son of settler, farmer, logger
and lumber mill owner Robert Watt, and
Jean Morris Watt, who he met in Haines, AK.
The Watt family journey from Scotland and
contributions as pioneers in the coastal re-
gion are documented in the 1974 book, Five
Watt Brothers. Phyllis attended Bay City
school with siblings Barbara, Joan and Rob-
ert. She graduated in 1945 in a class of nine,
received her B.S. from Oregon State Univer-
sity in 1949 and was one of the first women to
achieve a Master’s in Fisheries Management
in 1951. Phyllis was on faculty at OSU from
1951 to 1953, where her work was described in
Fur Animal Research where, in 200, editor
J.E. Oldfield remembers: ‘‘I moved from
U.B.C. to Oregon State University in 1949 and
found a mink research program in the De-
partment of Fisheries and Wildlife (then
‘‘Fish and Game’’) which was ably directed
by Phyllis Watt (now Wustenberg). If I need-
ed any encouragement to continue my inter-
est with mink, Phyllis certainly supplied it.
Raised on a mink ranch at Bay City, Oregon,
she combined her knowledge of the industry
and its needs with her research abilities to
form an effective program which she oper-
ated with great good humor.’’
She met and married Donald Wustenberg
of Chico, CA in 1953 while at OSU, and in
1955, after he graduated with a Master’s in
Fisheries Biology. They relocated to the
farm in Bay City to create a life closer to
their shared ideal for raising a family. Mark
was born in 1954 and William (Bill) in 1957.
Don and Phyllis combined their unique re-
search skills in animal science and genetics
to create innovative data management prac-
tices that produced among the finest natural
black mink in the world for over 45 years.
During that time they were active leaders in
the Ninth American mink industry: Phyllis
served as chair of the National Mink Farm-
er’s Research Foundation and was in demand
as a renowned speaker; Don was on the board
of the Great Lakes Mink Association during
years of the famous ‘‘What Becomes A Leg-
end Most’’ Richard Avalon ad campaign.
Phyllis served her community and state
with a gifted ability to see possibilities and
respect history. She believed that people’s
lives can be improved, young and old, with a
free book, a trip to a museum, a walk in a
nature center, or a scholarship for higher
education. Near to her heart was the Watt
Brothers Scholarship Trust, where she
served as chair for over 30 years, that annu-
ally gifts about $100,000 to Tillamook County
graduates. She was a dedicated founder of
the Bay City Planning Commission,
Tillamook County Pioneer Museum and
Kilchis Point Reserve boards, serving until
her last day. She sat on the Tillamook Coun-
ty Extension Committee and Tillamook
County Library Board. In 1994 Phyllis was
appointed to the Oregon State Board of
Higher Education and served until it was dis-
banded in 2004. She was the Board’s rep-
resentative to the Center for Applied Agri-
cultural Research Board during that period
and was a tireless advocate for Oregon State
University Cascades to ensure four-year uni-
versity education was available to the east-
ern half of the state. Former Vice Chancellor
for Academic Affairs Shirley Clark reflected
with great admiration that, ‘‘Phyllis
changed the world and made friends along
the way.’’
Phyllis did indeed bestow her deepest love
upon family and close friends. She nutured
her sons through Willamette University and
Oregon State Veterinary College and was
deeply proud that they each accomplished
distinguished careers and raised close-knit
families with core values that mirrored her
own. Her home was a destination for large
gatherings of family, annual OSU Delta
Delta Delta Sorority picnics, international
guests, drop-by visitors, and the occasional
elected official seeking advice. She is sur-
vived by: son, Dr. Mark Wustenberg (Judy),
Bay City, OR; Dr. William Wustenberg
(Wendy), Farmington, MN; four grand-
children—Dr. Ben Wustenberg (Dr. Leticia),
Carlton, OR and their children Tristan and
Emma; Liam Wustenberg (Jennifer), Forest
Grove, OR and their son Everett; Russell
Wustenberg, living in Toronto, CA; and
Lauren Wustenberg, South Royalton, VT;
her sisters Barbara and Joan; beloved neph-
ews and nieces and extended family by birth
and marriage here in the United States and
abroad. She is preceded in death by her hus-
band, Don, both parents and her brother Rob-
ert.
Mark recalls that his mother said, ‘‘Heav-
en is our memories carried forward in the
lives of those we love and hold dear.’’ The
public is invited to join the family at
Tillamook County Pioneer Museum, 2106 2nd
St. Tillamook, OR 97141, Sunday June 9, 2019
from 2–5 p.m. Memorials are requested in
lieu of flowers to honor Phyllis’ lifelong
dedication to the good works of the Watt
Brothers Scholarship Trust, c/o Simpson &
Roesener, LLP, 2216 4th St. Tillamook, OR
97141 and the Tillamook County Pioneer Mu-
seum, c/o Gary Albright, 2106 2nd St.
Tillamook, OR 97141.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23MY8.014 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E665
May 23, 2019
When she accepted the 2016 Bay City Pearl
Festival Honoree Award Phyllis said, ‘‘If you
love the place you live, you are extremely
blessed.’’ A more complete story about Phyl-
lis Watt Wustenberg’s lifelong love of Oregon
and the blessings that will continue due to
her dedicated efforts will be available online
at http://www.tcpm.org later this week.
The public is invited to celebrate the life
of Phyllis Watt Wustenberg on Sunday June
9 from 2–5 p.m. at the Tillamook County Pio-
neer Museum, 2106 2nd St., Tillamook, OR
97141.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. VICKY HARTZLER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, on
Wednesday, May 22, 2019, I was unable to
vote on roll call no. 222. If I had been present,
I would have voted Yea.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, on May 20,
2019, my vote on Roll Call vote 219 was inad-
vertently not recorded. If it had been, I would
have voted Yes.
f
HONORING WALSH UNIVERSITY’S
PRESIDENT RICHARD
JUSSEAUME RETIREMENT
HON. ANTHONY GONZALEZ
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio. Madam Speaker, I
rise to pay tribute to President Richard
Jusseaume, who is retiring this year after 18
years of leadership at Walsh University. Ohio’s
second longest serving president of a four-
year private university, President Jusseaume
has ushered in unprecedented growth in al-
most every facet of the university’s operations.
In total, he has spent five decades at Walsh
University in various roles including student,
Dean of Students, Board of Directors member,
and President.
Through the tireless work and effort of
President Jusseaume, Walsh University has
cemented its status as a leading academic in-
stitution. During his tenure, full-time under-
graduate enrollment has increased by more
than 60 percent, the university has more than
doubled its number of undergraduate majors
and launched its first doctorate programs, and
the number of buildings on Walsh’s North
Canton campus has more than doubled from
11 to 27 buildings.
What happens at a university is richer than
passing on intellectual knowledge. Classrooms
shape our habits, thoughts, and practice, thus
developing the future citizens of our liberal so-
ciety. President Jusseaume has steadfastly
dedicated himself to developing students into
leaders in service to others and prepared a di-
verse student body to thrive, and positively im-
pact local and global communities.
As you and I know, strong leadership is crit-
ical to academic success. President
Jusseaume’s clear vision and unwavering
commitment to students has shaped Walsh
University into one of our nation’s finest aca-
demic institutions, attracting the best and
brightest. I congratulate and thank President
Jusseaume for living out the passion and prin-
ciple of the university’s mission statement and
wish him and his family all the best.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE NATIONAL
VACCINE INJURY COMPENSATION
PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT ACT
OF 2019
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the National Vaccine Injury Com-
pensation Program Improvement Act of 2019.
This bill would further encourage the develop-
ment of important vaccines by doubling the
maximum number of special masters the
Court of Federal Claims can assign to vaccine
cases. I am pleased to be introducing this in
conjunction with Senator BOB CASEY, who is
introducing a companion bill in the Senate.
Vaccines are a vitally important component
of our public health system. The National Vac-
cine Injury Compensation Program (‘‘Pro-
gram’’) was created by Congress in 1988 so
that individuals and families of individuals in-
jured by childhood vaccines could receive fi-
nancial compensation. This ‘‘no-fault’’ system
caps the amount of compensation allowed
under the Program for vaccine-related injuries,
thus meeting the dual goals of encouraging
further development of vaccines and compen-
sating anyone injured by them.
The Program was also designed to accel-
erate the compensation process so plaintiffs
would not have to undergo a full trial before
receiving damages that could potentially be
used to address their injuries. However, as the
number of vaccines covered under the Pro-
gram has increased, so, too, has the number
of cases brought before the court and the spe-
cial masters. The number of petitions filed has
increased from 24 in fiscal year 1988 to 1,120
in fiscal year 2016.
Congress capped the number of special
masters at eight when it first authorized the
Program, and has not increased the number
since, despite the increase in covered vac-
cines and petitions filed. To meet the demand
caused by the increased number of these
complex cases, my bill would increase the
maximum number of special masters allowed
to 16. Moreover, the court may reduce the
number of special masters should the number
of cases drop, as this is a statutory ceiling, not
a floor.
This is an important measure to ensure
compensation when necessary and further im-
portant medical development. I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill.
IN RECOGNITION OF CAPE FEAR
CHRISTIAN ACADEMY’S SOFT-
BALL TEAM
HON. GEORGE HOLDING
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. HOLDING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the Cape Fear Christian Academy
Women’s Softball team for winning the North
Carolina Independent Schools Athletic Asso-
ciation 1A state championship. Led by coach
Sterling Holmes and assistant coach Craig
Autry, the CFCA softball team has officially
won seven state titles.
As a 4th seed road team, the Cape Fear
Christian Academy Eagles had an impressive
record in the Final Four. In their first game of
the weekend, the Eagles challenged the No. 1
seed Lawrence Academy and beat them with
a score of 7–2. Both their batting and fielding
was remarkable in their later game against
No. 2 seed Ridgecroft School, which they won
with 11 points against Ridgecroft’s zero. The
final score for the state title was 9–6 against
Pungo Christian Academy.
I am very proud of the Eagles on this major
accomplishment. Madam Speaker, please join
me in congratulating Aubree Bass, Kristen
Bass, Leah Brannon, Natalia Brocious,
McKenzie Burris, Gabbi Chiodo, Rebekah
Ennis, Shelby Hodges, Harmony Horne, Jada
Horne, Rhyleigh Horne, Trinity Olive, Paige
Jeffries, Anslee McLamb, Claire Parker,
Meghan Taylor, and Averi Williams, as well as
their coaches, families, fans, and Cape Fear
faculty who supported them on their road to
victory.
f
CONGRATULATING HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATES ENLSITING IN OUR
ARMED FORCES
HON. BRIAN J. MAST
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
commend and congratulate recent high school
graduates from Palm Beach County who have
made the decision to enlist in our Armed
Forces. I would like to thank them for volun-
teering to serve our country. They include:
Scott Carroll, Aspen Draeger, Gopal
Harpalani, Tyler Huntoon, Ryan Keip, Michael
Mee, Jaslyn Senger, Patrick Tierney, Devinity
Salon, Deiontae Shannon, Andrew Hogan,
Abigail Dasilva, Jaime Bustillo, John Dowd,
Casey George, Peter Kanelidis, Stephen
Manley, Andres Moreno, Ashton Skinner,
Brandon Suh, and Skylar Thompson.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF NATIVO
LOPEZ
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the memory of Nativo Lopez, a long-
time voice for the Mexican American commu-
nity in Southern California and a champion of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23MY8.016 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E666 May 23, 2019
immigrant rights. Mr. Lopez passed away on
Sunday, May 20th.
Mr. Lopez grew up in Los Angeles County
in a family that had lived in the United States
for six generations. He studied Spanish lit-
erature at California State University,
Dominguez Hills.
Nativo Lopez was best known for changing
the political landscape in Orange County. His
determination and ability to organize volun-
teers, workers, people who had never been
active in politics, led the start of the Orange
County blue wave. Nativo began advocating
and organizing at an early age. At the age of
13, he joined picket lines to protest funding
cuts at a community center in East Los Ange-
les. As an 18-year-old at Excelsior High
School, he and his brothers led a walkout of
more than 200 Mexican American students to
raise awareness for educational reform.
As a young professional, Mr. Lopez was a
court interpreter in Los Angeles County. Mr.
Lopez founded a Santa Ana chapter of
Hermandad Mexican National, a group that
provides services to and protects the needs
and rights of Spanish-speaking immigrants.
Nativo Lopez led Hermandad Mexicana for
more than 30 years. His passion for ensuring
that immigrant workers and their families, with
or without documents, were treated with dig-
nity and respect often sparked controversy,
but his commitment to the cause never
wavered.
In 1985, his name made national news
when he helped more than 500 Santa Ana
families stage a successful rent strike. Mr.
Lopez won a seat on the Santa Ana Unified
School District Board of Trustees in 1997. One
of his most influential efforts was his creation
of Assembly Bill 60, allowing unauthorized im-
migrants to apply for driver’s licenses. Mr.
Lopez was soon recognized as the undisputed
champion of immigrant rights in Southern Cali-
fornia.
Unfortunately, his life was cut short by can-
cer. Nativo Lopez leaves behind a legacy in
fighting for civil rights, immigration rights, edu-
cational access, and community empowerment
through civic engagement.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Lopez is truly a legend
in the history of Latino leaders in Orange
County and Los Angeles. His dedication and
passion to serving the Hispanic community are
truly unmatched. I ask my colleagues to join
me in celebrating the life of Nativo Lopez and
his lifelong dedication to serving our commu-
nity.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF BRYNN
BROWN AND ELI STOWERS
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to congratulate Guyer High School sopho-
mores Brynn Brown and Eli Stowers, who re-
cently won gold medals at the 2019 UIL Texas
State Track and Field meet.
The students’ victories are well-earned. Fol-
lowing her regional meet, Ms. Brown was a
self-proclaimed underdog. At the beginning of
her mile run, Ms. Brown was seeded fourth in
a competitive array of runners. Despite these
circumstances, she finished first with a mile
time of 4.28 minutes. Impressively, Ms. Brown
won a second gold medal in the 3,200-meter
run.
In the high jump competition, Mr. Stowers
reached a remarkable 6 feet and 10 inches to
claim the gold medal. Persevering through in-
clement weather, he rose to the challenge—a
testament to his hard work and diligent prepa-
ration.
I commend Guyer High School track and
field coaches Jonathan Ponsonby, Megan
Hardesty, and Aaron Roberts for their leader-
ship and dedication. It is a privilege to rep-
resent Guyer High School in the U.S. House
of Representatives. I am pleased to recognize
the achievements of Brynn Brown and Eli
Stowers, and I wish them continued success
in their athletic and academic endeavors.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF ALINA T.
HUDAK’S 35 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO MIAMI-DADE COUNTY
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I rise in
honor of my friend, Alina Hudak, Deputy
Mayor of Miami-Dade County, and her 35
years of public service to the greater Miami
community.
Alina began her career in the Miami-Dade
County government as a management trainee
in 1984. In 1993, she became the first His-
panic woman appointed to the position of As-
sistant County Manager. In 1996, she was
tapped for the position of Director of the Gen-
eral Services Administration. In 1998, she re-
joined the County Manager’s Office, and she
took over the post of County Manager in 2011.
She currently serves as Deputy Mayor of
Miami-Dade County as well as Director of the
Solid Waste Management Department.
Alina has worked with nearly every depart-
ment of Miami-Dade’s extensive administra-
tion, and she possesses an unrivaled knowl-
edge of the County. Throughout her career,
she has overseen an impressive portfolio of
departments, including the nationally recog-
nized Police and Fire Rescue, Animal Serv-
ices, Elections, Transit, Public Works, the Citi-
zen’s Independent Transportation Trust, and
the Public Health Trust. She spearheaded the
County’s Haitian Relief Efforted, the United
Way campaign, the Making Strides Against
Breast Cancer campaign, and has acted as li-
aison for numerous county tournaments and
events.
Alina continues to give to the Miami-Dade
community. She is an active alumna of the
University of Miami, where she earned a bach-
elor’s degree in Business Administration and a
master’s degree in Public Administration. She
is also deeply involved in the American Soci-
ety for Public Administration and the Inter-
national Women’s Forum.
We have all witnessed Alina’s extraordinary
skill and dedication to Miami-Dade County.
She has served with grace and heart, and I
look forward to seeing the impact she will con-
tinue to make on our community for years to
come.
EQUALITY ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. DAVID B. McKINLEY
OF WEST VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. MCKINLEY. Mr. Speaker, let me be
clear: I oppose discrimination in all forms, and
agree that individuals should have protections
against discrimination on the basis of sexual
orientation and gender. Unfortunately, H.R. 5,
the Equality Act, is a radical overreach that
goes beyond the scope of discrimination and
would harm doctors, families, women, religious
groups, and many others.
The Equality Act fails to include conscience
protections for doctors who have a moral or
religious objection to the services they will be
required to provide under the legislation. This
bill would force doctors to forego their exper-
tise and provide gender-affirming therapies,
even if it goes against their best medical
judgement. It could also force doctors and
nurses to perform abortion-related services,
regardless of their religious or moral objec-
tions.
This legislation also harms protections for
women’s sports provided by Title IX. Women
are already beginning to lose sporting com-
petitions and scholarships to their biologically
male competitors who identify as females.
These women have worked hard for their
achievements and deserve the chance to
compete on a level playing field.
Most importantly, the Equality Act would
prevent parents from making health care
choices that impact their own children and
could even lead to parents losing custody of
their children. In some states, like Ohio, this is
already happening. A judge recently removed
a biological girl from her parents custody after
they did not allow her to take testosterone
supplements to help her transition to a male.
The federal government should not play a role
in these important decisions.
This legislation does not serve as a con-
structive path forward to addressing the issue
of discrimination in our country. That is why I
voted against the Equality Act. It is yet another
example of a messaging bill that will not be
taken up in the Senate and therefore, will
never be signed into law. Isn’t it time that Con-
gress finally put American families ahead of
divisive, partisan politics?
f
SETTING EVERY COMMUNITY UP
FOR RETIREMENT ENHANCE-
MENT ACT
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 1994, the Set-
ting Every Community Up for Retirement En-
hancement (SECURE) Act.
After a lifetime of work, all Americans
should have access to retirement savings that
will meet their needs and allow for each Amer-
ican to spend these years with friends, family,
and doing what makes them happy. The SE-
CURE Act includes numerous provisions to
expand the opportunities for Americans to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23MY8.023 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E667
May 23, 2019
easily save more for retirement and fixes pro-
visions what would have drastically increase
taxes on military survivors and Gold Star fami-
lies.
This is a good, bipartisan bill that represents
Congress working together and will improve
saving for retirement for all Americans.
I support the SECURE Act and voted in
favor of the bill. Unfortunately, due to an error
in the voting process my ‘‘Yea’’ vote was not
officially recorded when the full House consid-
ered this bill on the floor.
f
HONORING THE 165TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF PROVIDENCE UNITED
CHURCH OF CHRIST IN CHESA-
PEAKE, VIRGINIA
HON. ROBERT C. ‘‘BOBBY’’ SCOTT
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor Providence United Church
of Christ in Chesapeake, Virginia on its 165th
anniversary.
Providence Church began as an informal
group of slaves and freed blacks coming to-
gether to worship. In the beginning, they gath-
ered for worship in parishioners’ homes and in
public spaces. This time together was impor-
tant for African-Americans because it provided
spiritual support and a sense of community.
In 1854, Providence Church was officially
organized by Reverend Scott. Under his lead-
ership, the congregation met every Sunday
and grew in size. As the number of parish-
ioners increased, the church was able to pur-
chase property on Railroad Road and build a
church. The church was built in 1872 and was
located in the city of South Norfolk, Virginia.
South Norfolk later became Chesapeake, Vir-
ginia in 1963.
Providence Church was renamed Provi-
dence United Church of Christ in 1957 when
they joined the United Church of Christ family.
Twenty years after joining the denomination
and more than 100 years after the church’s
founding, Providence United Church of Christ
expanded again in 1978. They were fortunate
to build another addition in the form of an edu-
cational wing in 2003. Today many of their
ministries take place in this new space.
Over the last 165 years, Providence United
Church of Christ has continued to be a leader
in the Hampton Roads community. The church
serves the community through several min-
istries including the Christian Education Min-
istry, Senior Citizens Ministry and the
Foodbank Ministry. Annual events include va-
cation bible schools, Kwanza celebrations,
community confitmation classes, youth revivals
and senior citizen celebrations. A unique fea-
ture of the church is that its congregation is di-
vided into 12 tribes. These tribes provide a
way for Providence United Church of Christ to
reach different parts of the community.
It is impossible to commemorate the 165th
anniversary of Providence United Church of
Christ without recognizing its former pastors
who helped build and grow this historic
church—Reverends Scott, J. Jones, A. Harris,
G.T. Hall, A.B. Jones, J.J. Faulk, J.R. Alston,
R.R. Briggs, Ben E. Cox, V. Chambers, Clifton
Thomas, Dr. Isaac McDonald, Dr. Samuel
Varner, Dr. Alexander Jamison, Sr. and cur-
rently Dr. A. Jerome Danage, Sr.
Madam Speaker, as Providence United
Church of Christ celebrates this historic mile-
stone this weekend, its congregation can take
pride in an inspiring 165 years of fellowship,
worship and service. I would like to congratu-
late Reverend Dr. A. Jerome Danage, Sr. and
all the members of the church’s congregation
on this joyous occasion, and I wish them
many more years full of growth, prosperity and
service to our community.
f
IN SUPPORT OF H.R. 2898 THE
‘‘BUDDY CHECK WEEK ACT’’
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, yes-
terday, I introduced H.R. 2898, the ‘‘Buddy
Check Week Act of 2019,’’ which provides
support and training to organize outreach
events and educate veterans on how to con-
duct peer wellness checks and recognize
signs of problems in fellow veterans that indi-
cate suicide risks.
The Buddy Check Week Act directs the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation
with veterans, non-profits that serve veterans,
mental health experts, and members of the
Armed Forces, to develop and implement col-
laborative education opportunities for veterans
to learn how to conduct wellness checks.
A wellness check involves contacting vet-
erans who may be demonstrating signs of
having difficulty and making sure they receive
visits to see how they are doing and provide
support for any needs.
The VA will provide online or in-person
training to individuals, as well as provide op-
portunities for Veterans Service Organizations
(VSOs) to learn how to: train individuals to
conduct peer wellness checks, transfer phone
calls to the Veterans Crisis Line, and be resil-
ient when handling a veteran in crisis.
The bill inspired by the American Legion’s
‘‘Buddy Check National Week of Calling,’’ held
March 11–16, 2019.
The American Legion unveiled this new ini-
tiative to connect past and present veterans
and ensure that they receive the care they
need.
A Buddy Check Week will provide the time,
space, and resources needed to help these
veterans through personal interaction and
kindness.
This legislation will amplify the work of the
American Legion and support efforts to con-
duct outreach to veterans across the nation.
Madam Speaker, veteran suicide is a perva-
sive and critical issue, threatening the lives of
many of our bravest and most patriotic Ameri-
cans.
Although, the VA has screening protocols
designed to aid veterans and stage suicide
interventions, some 6,000 veterans a year
tropically fall through the cracks of this sys-
tem, finding themselves without the necessary
aid and resources that were promised to them
by the VA and commit suicide.
Many Suicide Prevention Coordinators and
offices specializing in veterans affairs report
being overworked and unable to keep up with
their many responsibilities.
On average, about 20 veterans die every
day by suicide, and since 2017, 25 veterans
have taken their lives on the grounds of Vet-
erans Affairs hospitals, including seven this
year and at least four last month, actively
seeking help from an unprepared agency be-
fore committing suicide.
It is long past time for the federal govern-
ment to provide the necessary legislation to
address the troubling uptick in veteran sui-
cides and help improve suicide prevention and
mental health resources at the at VA.
To truly address this issue, we need to
make sure that the VA and veterans aid orga-
nizations have the tools needed to serve every
veteran that walks through their doors.
It is critically important that we provide train-
ing on the signs that a veteran may be in cri-
sis and the needed make it easier to get them
the help that they need.
I believe this bill is a step in the right direc-
tion toward making sure that happens.
Madam Speaker, it is unconscionable that a
veteran will commit suicide every hour.
The fact that veterans make up just 20 per-
cent of the male population, yet veterans
make up close to 32 percent of all male sui-
cides is shocking and must spur our action.
It does not have to be this way, Madam
Speaker, and we can do something about it,
starting with the passage of H.R. 2898, the
‘‘Buddy Check Week Act.’’
f
CONGRATULATING THE CHRISTUS
SANTA ROSA HEALTH SYSTEM
HON. JOAQUIN CASTRO
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate the CHRISTUS
Santa Rosa Health System on its 150th anni-
versary year serving the health care needs of
San Antonio and South Texas. Three Catholic
Sisters left their families and native country of
France 150 years ago in 1869, and traveled to
San Antonio, Texas to answer a call to care
for victims of a deadly cholera outbreak. This
marked the beginnings of the Congregation of
the Sisters of Charity of the Incarnate Word in
San Antonio and the Santa Rosa Infirmary,
which still serves the community today. A cen-
tury and a half later, the infirmary, now known
as CHRISTUS Santa Rosa Health System and
The Children’s Hospital of San Antonio, has
grown and expanded to meet the new health
care needs of diverse populations throughout
the south Texas region.
From those three founding Sisters, a net-
work of hospitals and clinics has grown
around the world, employing thousands of
health care professionals who are still re-
sponding with compassion and love to Bishop
Dubuis’ call 150 years ago.
In 2019, we celebrate the Congregation’s
Sesquicentennial in CHRISTUS Health loca-
tions throughout Texas, Mexico, South Amer-
ica and the United States. And during this
celebration, we remember the first ministry,
where it all began—CHRISTUS Santa Rosa.
CHRISTUS Health is now one of the top ten
Catholic health systems in the United States
and a leading provider of uncompensated care
among not-for-profit health care systems.
I congratulate CHRISTUS Santa Rosa on its
150th anniversary and recognize its significant
contribution to the state of Texas as a leader
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23MY8.027 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E668 May 23, 2019
and provider of quality, faith-based compas-
sionate healthcare. Patients served by
CHRISTUS Santa Rosa, including my con-
stituents of the 20th District, are grateful to
each of the thousands of nurses, doctors, as-
sociates and volunteers who have helped their
communities through the years with a commit-
ment to the CHRISTUS Santa Rosa mission
of ‘‘extending the healing ministry of Jesus
Christ.’’
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE
FITZPATRICK FAMILY AND THE
RED LION INN
HON. RICHARD E. NEAL
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I would like to
take this opportunity to recognize and con-
gratulate the Fitzpatrick Family on their 50th
anniversary as owners of the iconic Red Lion
Inn in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. The Red
Lion Inn has been a cultural and historic insti-
tution of western Massachusetts for more than
two centuries and has continued on as such in
the modern era thanks to the Fitzpatrick Fam-
ily. Our community has benefited immeas-
urably as a result, and we are incredibly grate-
ful.
The Town of Stockbridge was founded in
1734 and became a popular resort destination
during the Gilded Age. It also became home
to one of America’s greatest 18th century ho-
tels, the Red Lion Inn, which first opened in
1773. The World Wars of the 20th century,
however, as well as the Great Depression,
took a toll on the region and the Red Lion Inn
with it. But 1969 would prove to be a monu-
mental year for Stockbridge and the rest of the
Berkshires. As new attractions reenergized the
area, the grand reopening of the Red Lion Inn
took place on account of Senator Jack
Fitzpatrick and his wife, Jane. The Fitzpatricks
did more than just save the Red Lion Inn from
being razed. They renovated it and preserved
most of the art, antiques, furniture, and—
thus—charm that are essential to the Inn’s
character and allure. They also continued to
grow their impact on the community by helping
local projects thrive and injecting a fresh
sense of prosperity to the Berkshires. Still fur-
ther, they have prided themselves on pro-
viding high quality service and hospitality to all
of their guests and making them feel right at
home in the heart of the Berkshires.
Once again, Madam Speaker, the 50th year
of Fitzpatrick Family ownership of the Red
Lion Inn is certainly worthy of celebration and
recognition. It is a testament to the vibrancy
and cultural substance of Stockbridge and the
Berkshires. Jane and Jack Fitzpatrick’s bounti-
ful legacy lives on through the Fitzpatrick
Trust, the Red Lion Inn, and—most impor-
tantly—the new generation of family members.
I wish the Fitzpatrick Family, including of
course Jack and Jane’s daughter Nancy, and
Nancy’s stepdaughter Sarah Eustis, who is the
third-generation owner and operator of the Inn,
all the best in their future endeavors and at
the 50th Anniversary Gala Dinner to be hosted
on May 29.
OBSERVING THE 101TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF AZERBAIJAN’S REPUB-
LIC
HON. STEVE CHABOT
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. CHABOT. Madam Speaker, I rise today
as a Co-chair of the Congressional Azerbaijani
Caucus, to honor the Republic of Azerbaijan
as it celebrates its 101st Republic Day on May
28, 2019. This important milestone marks the
very first time a parliamentary democratic re-
public was established in any predominantly
Muslim country.
Unfortunately, Azerbaijan’s independence
was short-lived, as it was soon occupied by
the Soviets. Many Azerbaijanis lost their lives
in 1920, trying to keep their independence
alive and after years of living under Soviet rule
re-gained their independence in 1991.
Since regaining its independence, Azer-
baijan has become a key ally to the United
States in a strategically important region. It is
a secular state with a predominantly Muslim
population that has been home to vibrant
Christian and Jewish communities for over a
millennium.
Azerbaijan continues to offer critical support
for NATO operations in Afghanistan, particu-
larly by enabling supplies to reach Coalition
forces. Azerbaijan also provides vital support
to U.S. nonproliferation efforts in a very tough
neighborhood.
In addition to supporting U.S. security inter-
ests in the region, Azerbaijan plays an impor-
tant role in contributing to the energy security
of our European allies and Israel. It is very re-
markable that roughly 40% of Israel’s oil is
provided by Azerbaijan.
I believe the U.S. should stand with Azer-
baijan and work with them to strengthen their
independence as our proven partner is sub-
jected to substantial pressure from Russia and
Iran.
It is my pleasure to encourage my col-
leagues to join me in honoring Azerbaijan on
its 101st Republic Day and celebrate the ro-
bust U.S.-Azerbaijan partnership.
f
HONORING JESPY HOUSE AND THE
MICHAEL OCH HOUSE
HON. DONALD M. PAYNE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate a nonprofit organization that helps
serve the intellectually and developmentally
disabled community in my district. For the past
forty years, JESPY House has been a vital
part of South Orange, New Jersey.
JESPY House has provided housing, job
training, and life skills to hundreds of disabled
people during its long history as a public serv-
ice organization. In two weeks, JESPY House
will host the grand opening of its newest ex-
pansion—the Michael Och House, a Center
for Aging at JESPY.
The Och House is part of JESPY’s ‘‘Aging
in Place’’ program, which provides for people
with intellectual or developmental disabilities to
live in a client-centered, community-based set-
ting during their senior years.
The Och House will help JESPY to ensure
its clients are able to age with dignity. They
will have increased nursing and health care
screenings, healthy living workshops, on-site
physical therapists, and age-appropriate ac-
cessibility furnishings.
I am proud to represent organizations that
are doing great things for those in need.
JESPY House is a model for advancing inde-
pendence among adults with intellectual and
developmental disabilities. I ask that my col-
leagues join me in honoring them.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained. Had I been present, I
would have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 222,
223, 224, and 225; NAY on Roll Call No. 226;
YEA on Roll Call No. 227; and NAY on Roll
Call No. 228.
f
IN HONOR OF REVEREND DOCTOR
EMMETT SCOTT ANITON, JR.
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor an outstanding Man of
God, a devoted spiritual leader, and dear
friend of longstanding, Rev. Dr. Emmett S.
Aniton, Jr., who will be celebrating his 40th
anniversary as the distinguished pastor of
Friendship Baptist Church in Columbus, Geor-
gia on Friday, May 24, 2019, at 6:30pm.
Emmett Scott Aniton, Jr. was born on March
8, 1940, in Oneonta, Alabama to the union of
Mr. Emmett Scott Aniton, Sr. and Mrs. Estella
Aniton Woods. He attended Southside High
School in Etowah County, Alabama, where he
graduated in 1959, before earning his Bach-
elor of Theology degree from Selma University
in 1964. He entered the United States Army
and completed a tour of duty in Qui Nho’n,
Vietnam, and returned home to Alabama
where he matriculated at Alabama A&M Uni-
versity, earning Bachelor of Arts degree in So-
ciology in 1971.
After responding to God’s call to preach the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, Rev. Aniton pastored
the First Baptist Church in Jacksonville, Ala-
bama from 1966 to March of 1979. For more
than 12 years, Rev. Aniton was the shepherd
at First Baptist where he ministered to the
needs of his flock christening babies, bap-
tizing believers, performing marriages, and
consoling bereaved families, while developing
and honing his skills as a church administrator
and inspiring preacher.
Then in November of 1978, the congrega-
tion of Friendship Baptist Church called and
the Holy Spirit sent Rev. Aniton to Columbus,
Georgia. His pastoral duties began in April of
1979 and he has faithfully and effectively
served for over 40 years. Under Reverend
Aniton’s dynamic and spirit-filled leadership,
the Friendship Baptist Church has experi-
enced tremendous growth—spiritually, numeri-
cally, and in its physical facilities. But most im-
portantly, under his leadership, Friendship has
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23MY8.030 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E669
May 23, 2019
been a beacon of hope and salvation for the
congregation through its many ministries
which share the good news of our Lord and
Savior, Jesus Christ.
Yet, Madam Speaker, the outstanding serv-
ant leadership demonstrated by Rev. Aniton
did not stop at Friendship Baptist Church. His
impact has been felt in the larger community
and beyond. He has served on the boards of
the Pastoral Institute, the Liberty Theatre, the
Metro Columbus Urban League, and the
Fourth Street Towers. He has been President
of the Mount Calvary Congress of Christian
Education and the Muscogee County Clergy
Association; instructor for the General Mis-
sionary Baptist Convention of Georgia Con-
gress of Christian Education and the American
Baptist Theological Seminary (off-campus). He
received the NAACP Religious Affairs Award,
Rainbow PUSH Coalition Lifetime Achieve-
ment Award, the PUHL (Peace, Unity, Hon-
esty, and Leadership) Award; and in May of
2011, received an Honorary Doctorate of Di-
vinity Degree from St. Thomas Christian Col-
lege in Jacksonville, Florida.
Reverend Aniton has achieved much in his
life, but none of it would have been possible
without the Grace of God and the love and the
support of his late wife, Mrs. Dorothy Rigby
Aniton; his children, Minister Rhonda Aniton
Bell, Emmett Scott Aniton Ill, and Keisha
Aniton Simmons; his grandchildren and other
family members. He is an outstanding mentor,
a strong leader, and a faithful servant of God.
On a personal note, I have been blessed by
Rev. Aniton’s sage counsel and enduring
friendship over the four decades I have known
him and I am proud to call him my friend.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
my wife, Vivian, and me, along with the
730,000 residents of Georgia’s Second Con-
gressional District, in congratulating Rev. Dr.
Emmett S. Aniton, Jr. for 40 outstanding years
of leadership at Friendship Baptist Church, for
over 50 remarkable years of ministry, and for
a lifetime of selfless service to God, the
church, and to humankind. To God be the
glory for the things He has done through His
humble servant, Rev. Dr. Emmett S. Aniton,
Jr.
f
INTRODUCTION OF RESOLUTION
FOR AUTHORIZING AND DIRECT-
ING THE COMMITTEE ON THE JU-
DICIARY TO INVESTIGATE
WHETHER SUFFICIENT GROUNDS
EXIST FOR THE HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES TO EXERCISE
THE POWER VESTED BY ARTI-
CLE 1, SECTION 2, CLAUSE 5 OF
THE CONSTITUTION IN RESPECT
TO ACTS OF MISCONDUCT BY
DONALD JOHN TRUMP, PRESI-
DENT OF THE UNITED STATES
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
to announce to the House that I have intro-
duced H. Res. 396, a resolution authorizing
and directing the Committee on the Judiciary
to investigate whether sufficient grounds exist
for the House of Representatives to exercise
the power vested by Article 1, Section 2,
Clause 5 of the Constitution in respect to acts
of misconduct by Donald John Trump, Presi-
dent of the United States.
I invite every Member of the House to join
me in cosponsoring this important and nec-
essary step to uphold the rule of law, preserve
the strength of our democracy, and affirm the
rightful place of the Congress as a co-equal
branch of government with the constitutional
duty to check and hold accountable a way-
ward head of the Executive Branch.
This resolution is both necessary and timely.
Last week, hours before the House Judici-
ary Committee was to vote to hold Attorney
General Bill Barr in contempt of congress, the
President indicated that he intended to assert
executive privilege to deny Congress and the
American people the Mueller Report.
Yesterday, the White House Counsel indi-
cated that it believes that the House Judiciary
Committee’s inquiry was an improper exercise
of its oversight powers and was instead in-
tended to ‘‘harass’’ the President.
The White House Counsel, in mistaken be-
lief that the Mueller Investigation was the final
word into investigations concerning this Presi-
dent, stated that Congress was not permitted
‘‘an unauthorized do-over of exhaustive law
enforcement investigations conducted by the
Department of Justice.’’
The White House position is clearly wrong
on history, on the law, and on the Constitution,
but more that than, it is reckless and desta-
bilizing.
It disregards or misapprehends the nature,
structure, and purpose of the system of gov-
ernment devised by the Framers that served
us well for nearly 250 years.
It contemplates branches of government su-
perior to others and represents an indiffer-
ence, belligerence and disrespect towards Ar-
ticle I of the Constitution unseen in American
history.
Congressional requests for documents have
been ignored, subpoenas have been flouted,
witnesses refuse to appear for congressional
oversight hearings, norms shattered.
This is intolerable and why, in consultation
with and by working with my colleagues, I
have introduced H. Res. 396, a resolution au-
thorizing and directing the Committee on the
Judiciary to investigate whether sufficient
grounds exist for the House of Representa-
tives to exercise the power vested by Article 1,
Section 2, Clause 5 of the Constitution in re-
spect to acts of misconduct by Donald John
Trump, President of the United States.
This is a significant measure because it
invoives not just the standing committees but
the whole House of Representatives, the body
that is vested by the Constitution with the
‘‘sole power of impeachment.’’
Madam Speaker, if approved by the House,
H. Res. 396 gives the Committee on Judiciary
a broad and affirmative mandate by the body
that is vested with the sole power conveyed
by Article 1, Section 2, Clause 5 to investigate
the areas of possible misconduct listed in the
Resolving clause.
Since 1900, responsibility for conducting in-
vestigations of the type envisioned by the res-
olution has been delegated by the House to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
Nothing in the resolution preempts or fore-
closes any other Committee of the House from
exercising its oversight authority and adoption
of the resolution will convey to the Administra-
tion, the public, and relevant witnesses the se-
riousness to which the House takes its re-
sponsibilities to act as a check on a wayward
Executive and the gravity of the findings and
conclusions set forth in the Mueller Report.
Finally, nothing in the resolution compels
the Committee on the Judiciary to reach a par-
ticular result or make a particular rec-
ommendation; rather, the resolution charges
the Committee with undertaking a comprehen-
sive investigation following the evidence where
it leads and reporting its conclusions and rec-
ommendations to the full House.
Madam Speaker, the time has come to re-
assert proper oversight in our system of gov-
ernment.
During the first two years of this administra-
tion, House Republicans shirked their over-
sight responsibilities.
This new House majority, propelled by the
largest class of women and the most diverse
class in history, will do its job to ensure the
preservation of this government of the people,
by the people, and for the people.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF GOLF LEGEND, ALICE DYE
HON. SUSAN W. BROOKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the life and legacy of
Alice Holliday Dye, an Indiana golf legend and
accomplished amateur champion. Known as
the ‘‘First Lady’’ of golf course architecture,
Alice and her husband, Pete, co-designed
some of the country’s most high-profile cham-
pionship golf courses, including Crooked Stick
Golf Club in Carmel, Indiana. The people of
Indiana’s Fifth Congressional District are for-
ever grateful for Alice’s significant contribu-
tions to the City of Carmel, Hamilton County,
the state of Indiana, and the nation.
Alice was born on February 19, 1927, in In-
dianapolis, Indiana, where she won the Indi-
ana State Junior championship at the age of
15. She graduated from Shortridge High
School and graduated with honors from Rol-
lins College in Florida, where she was captain
of the women’s golf team and a member of
the men’s team. Following her graduation, she
worked as a life insurance saleswoman, be-
coming one of the few women in the business
at the time, eventually earning a spot in the
Women’s Quarter Million Dollar Roundtable.
A trailblazer, Alice was a female pioneer in
the golfing community. Alice’s passion for golf
began at a young age, spending time at the
Woodstock Club in Indianapolis. It was there
she fell in love with the beautiful fairways and
the game itself. Later, Alice went on to have
a standout career in golf, winning over 50
amateur championships during her lifetime in-
cluding nine State Championships in Indiana,
the Woman’s North and South, the Women’s
Eastern, the National Ladies Club Champion-
ship, two USGA Senior and two Canadian
Senior Tournaments, as well as five Women’s
Western Senior Tournaments, National Ladies
Club Championship, and played on the 1970
Curtis Cup Team. Alice also won a gold medal
in golf at the Senior Olympics.
Collaborating with her husband, Pete Dye,
she co-designed Crooked Stick Golf Club in
Carmel, Indiana, where she and Pete had a
home on the 18th hole. Alice and Pete also
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23MY8.035 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E670 May 23, 2019
worked together to design Harbour Town Golf
Links in Hilton Head, South Carolina, Whistling
Straits in Kohler, Wisconsin, and the TPC
Sawgrass, with its famous par-3 17th hole with
an island green, in Ponte Vedra Beach, Flor-
ida. Through her success on the greens and
the remarkable course designs, Alice was re-
lentlessly dedicated to ensuring that women
players were not forgotten and is credited as
the champion for the two tee system that
made formidable courses more playable for
women.
Alice’s work is a true testament to her out-
standing career and selfless contributions.
Alice served the sport by becoming the first
woman president of the American Society of
Golf Course Architects in 1997 and the first
woman to serve as an independent director of
the PGA of America in 1999. She was hon-
ored with numerous awards and accolades, in-
cluding being inducted into the Indiana Golf
Hall of Fame in 1976 and was voted PGA’s
First Lady of Golf in 2004.
In her personal life, Alice was known as a
loving mother. She truly loved the sport and
the fairways became one of her favorite
places to go with her family and close friends.
Born and raised in Indianapolis, she worked to
bring affordable junior golf programs to youth
of all backgrounds through the establishment
of The First Tee of Indiana. Children of all
ages can practice their swings on four 9-hole
courses, named in their honor, at the Pete &
Alice Dye Golf Experience, part of the Sports
Legend Experience at the Children’s Museum
of Indianapolis. Over the years, Alice’s pas-
sion for golf has inspired countless individuals
and her leadership as the First Lady of golf ar-
chitecture has left a remarkable legacy.
Alice will be forever missed by her family,
friends, colleagues, and the entire golf com-
munity. On behalf of Indiana’s Fifth Congres-
sional District, I extend my deepest condo-
lences to Alice’s husband, Pete, her son,
Perry, and his wife, Ann, her son, P.B., and
his wife, Jean, her two grandchildren, her two
great grandchildren, and to her entire ex-
tended family and the friends who mourn her
loss.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE AND
SERVICE OF FRANK BRYANT
HON. MARK DeSAULNIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the life and service of long-
time Walnut Creek resident, Mr. Frank Bryant.
Frank was born on April 24, 1936 in Elko,
Nevada to parents Howard and Charlotte Bry-
ant. After his family moved to California, Frank
attended San Jose State University before set-
tling in Walnut Creek with his wife Susan.
Frank and Susan resided in Walnut Creek for
over 50 years. Throughout this time, Frank
was deeply committed to serving the East Bay
community.
An architect by trade, Frank designed sev-
eral commercial and residential buildings
throughout Walnut Creek. A strong partner
with the City of Walnut Creek, Frank designed
a community theater and renovated an East
Bay landmark, the Borges Ranch House.
Frank also used his architectural expertise
in his positions on the Walnut Creek Design
Review Commission, the Civic Arts Associa-
tion, and the Walnut Creek Planning Commis-
sion. As a further testament to his commitment
to the community, Frank was a founding mem-
ber and the first president of the Kennedy-
King Memorial College Scholarship Fund, an
organization that pays tribute to two American
heroes while helping provide students access
to educational opportunities.
Please join me in honoring Frank Bryant,
whose devotion to public service had a pro-
found impact on his community.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE TRADI-
TION OF BREAKFAST ON THE
FARM IN BROWN COUNTY
HON. MIKE GALLAGHER
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the tradition of Breakfast
on the Farm in Brown County.
Breakfast on the Farm is an iconic Wis-
consin tradition that provides the community
an opportunity to see first-hand how a dairy
farm operates, and to learn about the signifi-
cant role the dairy industry plays in Wiscon-
sin’s economy. Community members meet
dairy farmers, explore the barns and equip-
ment, and enjoy a delicious meal prepared on
the farm.
In 1997, Dennis and Mary Zirbel moved
from Collins, WI, to establish DenMar Acres,
their dairy farm in Greenleaf, WI. Their sons
Jeremy, Jeff, and Jesse are partners on the
farm where the family milks 950 cows and
manages 1,900 acres. Always pursuing inno-
vative practices, DenMar Acres implements
advanced technologies such as the Juno robot
Feed Pushers, to help increase yields and im-
prove efficiency on their farm. I am grateful to
DenMar Acres for hosting the 2019 Brown
County Breakfast on the Farm.
Brown County Dairy Promotion has been or-
ganizing Breakfast on the Farm since 2001,
recruiting farm hosts, sponsors, and volun-
teers to support this terrific event. To continue
the promotion of agriculture throughout the
year, all proceeds of Breakfast on the Farm
are donated to provide free educational pro-
grams to students studying agriculture in
Brown County.
Madam Speaker, I urge all members of this
body to join me in commending the efforts of
Breakfast on the Farm to educate the commu-
nity through this time-honored tradition. Thank
you to the Zirbels, Brown County Dairy Pro-
motion, and the countless sponsors and volun-
teers for their continued support of Wiscon-
sin’s dairy industry.
f
RECOGNITION FOR VIRGINIA
DEANGELIS, PH.D.
HON. KEVIN McCARTHY
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Dr. Virginia DeAngelis for her
life of work and service to our community.
Jinny is stepping down as the Chief Executive
Officer of Desert Area Regional Training
(DART), an organization that advocates for,
and employs, people with disabilities in
Ridgecrest, California, which I represent.
Jinny was born and raised in Wisconsin,
graduating cum laude from the University of
Wisconsin, Stevens Point, and later obtained
her Master’s degree and Doctorate in Busi-
ness Administration, with an emphasis in Or-
ganizational Leadership. After all those years
in the cold Midwest, Jinny wanted warmer
weather, eventually bringing her to the com-
munity of Ridgecrest. She taught at the Sierra
Sands Unified School District, educating future
generations and inspiring them to become the
next leaders of our community. In 1993, she
started as a Case Manager for DART, and
through her hard work as an industrious
champion for people with disabilities, she was
deservedly appointed CEO in 2003.
As an executive, Jinny continued to dedi-
cate her energy to serving our local commu-
nity, managing and guiding the development
of DART’s mission and facilities, all while si-
multaneously advocating for people with dis-
abilities. DART has managed and operated a
thrift store, providing an opportunity for em-
ployment for many people with disabilities in
Ridgecrest. Because of the generosity in our
community, DART recently had to open a
new, bigger location that allowed for more
space in the shop and greater work experi-
ence.
Jinny’s presence in our community has
been prolific; she serves on multiple boards
and volunteers her time for many local organi-
zations, including the Rotary Club of China
Lake, Girl Scouts USA, and Ridgecrest Mayor
Peggy Breeden’s Special Committee on the
Handicapped for the City of Ridgecrest. Jinny
is a true believer in the power of education
and has lent her expertise to others in Kern
County through her work with the Autism Task
Force in Kern County and the Kern Commu-
nity College District Adult Education Consor-
tium. For her service and dedication to people
with disabilities, she has received many
awards, including Rotarian of the Year in
2014, 2015, and 2016.
On behalf of the constituents of the 23rd
Congressional District of California, I applaud
Jinny for her over 40 years of dedication, hard
work, and service to educating and advocating
on behalf of people with disabilities. I wish her
well as she embarks on the next chapter in
her life.
f
IN HONOR OF CHIEF ROBERT
PFANNES FOR HIS EXEMPLARY
SERVICE
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Police Chief Robert
Pfannes for his dedicated service to the city of
Ann Arbor. His exceptional work ensuring the
safety of his community is worthy of com-
mendation.
A graduate of Madonna University and the
Eastern Michigan University School of Police
Staff and Command, Chief Robert Pfannes
committed his career to protecting the commu-
nity. Initially serving in the Detroit and Garden
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23MY8.037 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E671
May 23, 2019
City Police Departments, Chief Pfannes joined
the Ann Arbor Police Department in 1998 as
a patrol officer. He worked in the patrol, major
crimes, and narcotics divisions, before being
promoted to Detective Lieutenant in 2012,
where he served as the commander of the
Detective Section. Beyond his work in public
safety, Chief Pfannes has dedicated numerous
hours in service of education, teaching at the
Western Wayne Regional Police Academy for
the last 23 years.
Chief Pfannes’ efforts demonstrate a deep
commitment to justice, public safety, and edu-
cation. His critical work has been instrumental
in protecting the Ann Arbor community. Chief
Pfannes’ 21 years as a member of the Ann
Arbor Police Department exemplifies the self-
lessness of public service. We are grateful for
the exceptional work he has done protecting
the Ann Arbor community, and we congratu-
late him on his retirement. His dedicated lead-
ership will be missed, and we wish him good
health and every happiness in his retirement
years.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Police Chief Robert Pfannes
for his many years of exemplary service. He
has effectively served Michigan and its resi-
dents through his selflessness and leadership.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:19 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23MY8.041 E23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D592
Thursday, May 23, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate passed S. 151, TRACED Act, as amended.
Senate passed H.R. 2157, Supplemental Appropriations Act, as amended.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S3065–S3137
Measures Introduced: Sixty-nine bills and eight
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
1627–1695, and S. Res. 219–226. Pages S3104–07
Measures Reported:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Further Revised Alloca-
tion to Subcommittees of Budget Totals for Fiscal
Year 2019’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–42)
S. Res. 135, expressing the gratitude and appre-
ciation of the Senate for the acts of heroism and
valor by the members of the United States Armed
Forces who participated in the June 6, 1944, am-
phibious landing at Normandy, France, and com-
mending those individuals for leadership and bravery
in an operation that helped bring an end to World
War II, and with an amended preamble. Page S3104
Measures Passed:
TRACED Act: By 97 yeas to 1 nay (Vote No.
127), Senate passed S. 151, to deter criminal robocall
violations and improve enforcement of section 227(b)
of the Communications Act of 1934, after agreeing
to the committee amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute. Pages S3075–77
Supplemental Appropriations Act: By 85 yeas to
8 nays (Vote No. 129), Senate passed H.R. 2157,
making supplemental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, after agreeing to
the motion to proceed, and the following amend-
ment proposed thereto: Pages S3084–85
Adopted:
McConnell (for Shelby/Leahy) Amendment No.
250, in the nature of a substitute. Page S3084
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 84 yeas to 9 nays (Vote No. 128), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, pursuant to section 904 of
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and the waiv-
er provisions of applicable budget resolutions, Senate
agreed to the motion to waive all applicable sections
of the Act and applicable budget resolutions with re-
spect to the bill, as amended. Page S3084
National Public Works Week: Committee on the
Judiciary was discharged from further consideration
of S. Res. 213, designating the week of May 19
through May 25, 2019, as ‘‘National Public Works
Week’’, and the resolution was then agreed to.
Page S3127
Vision To Learn: Senate agreed to S. Res. 222,
recognizing Vision To Learn as a national leader in
improving access to prescription eyeglasses for stu-
dents in low-income communities, thereby helping
those students succeed in school, and for providing
vision exams to 200,000 students since its founding.
Pages S3116–17
DIPG Pediatric Brain Cancer Awareness Day:
Senate agreed to S. Res. 223, expressing support for
the designation of May 17, 2019, as ‘‘DIPG Pedi-
atric Brain Cancer Awareness Day’’ to raise awareness
of and encourage research on diffuse intrinsic pontine
glioma tumors and pediatric cancers in general.
Page S3117
National Nurses Week: Senate agreed to S. Res.
224, supporting the goals and ideals of National
Nurses Week, to be observed from May 6 through
May 12, 2019. Page S3117
International Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chron-
ic Fatigue Syndrome Awareness Day: Senate agreed
to S. Res. 225, supporting the goals of International
Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syn-
drome Awareness Day. Pages S3117–18
National Foster Care Month: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 226, recognizing National Foster Care Month as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23MY9.REC D23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D593
May 23, 2019
an opportunity to raise awareness about the chal-
lenges of children in the foster care system, and en-
couraging Congress to implement policy to improve
the lives of children in the foster care system.
Page S3118
Republic of the Marshall Islands: Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources was discharged from
further consideration of S. Con. Res. 3, recognizing
the rich history, heritage, and strategic importance
of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and the
Marshallese population residing in the United States,
and the resolution was then agreed to. Page S3128
National Flood Insurance Program: Senate
passed S. 1693, to reauthorize the National Flood
Insurance Program. Page S3128
Congressional Budget—Agreement: Senate began
consideration of the motion to proceed to consider-
ation of S. 1332, to set forth the congressional budg-
et for the United States Government for fiscal year
2020 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary
levels for fiscal years 2021 through 2029. Page S3086
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the bill,
and, in accordance with the provisions of Rule XXII
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, and pursuant to
the unanimous-consent agreement of Thursday, May
23, 2019, a vote on cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m.
on Monday, June 3, 2019. Page S3086
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3 p.m. on Monday,
June 3, 2019, Senate resume consideration of the
motion to proceed to consideration of the bill; and
that notwithstanding the provisions of Rule XXII,
the cloture motions filed during the session of
Thursday, May 23, 2019 ripen at 5:30 p.m. on
Monday, June 3, 2019. Page S3128
Indian Water Rights Settlement Extension Act—
Referral: A unanimous-consent agreement was
reached providing that the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources be discharged from further
consideration of S. 886, to amend the Omnibus Pub-
lic Land Management Act of 2009 to make the Rec-
lamation Water Settlements Fund permanent, and
the bill be referred to the Committee on Indian Af-
fairs. Page S3128
Pro Forma Sessions—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
Senate adjourn, to then convene for pro forma ses-
sions only, with no business being conducted on the
following dates and times, and that following each
pro forma session, the Senate adjourn until the next
pro forma session: Friday, May 24, 2019, at 9:45
a.m.; Tuesday, May 28, 2019, at 11:30 a.m.; Friday,
May 31, 2019, at 10:30 a.m.; and that when the
Senate adjourns on Friday, May 31, 2019, it next
convene at 3 p.m., on Monday, June 3, 2019.
Page S3128
Saul Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consider-
ation of the nomination of Andrew M. Saul, of New
York, to be Commissioner of Social Security.
Page S3086
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of S. 1332, to set forth the congressional budget for
the United States Government for fiscal year 2020
and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for
fiscal years 2021 through 2029. Page S3086
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3086
Schenker Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of David Schenker,
of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Secretary of State
(Near Eastern Affairs). Page S3086
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Andrew M. Saul, of New York,
to be Commissioner of Social Security. Page S3086
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3086
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3086
Tarbert Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Heath P. Tarbert, of
Maryland, to be Chairman of the Commodity Fu-
tures Trading Commission. Page S3087
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of David Schenker, of New Jersey,
to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Near Eastern
Affairs). Page S3087
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3086
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3087
Tarbert Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Heath P. Tarbert, of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23MY9.REC D23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D594 May 23, 2019
Maryland, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. Page S3087
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland,
to be Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. Page S3087
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3087
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3087
Combs Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Susan Combs, of
Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior.
Page S3087
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland,
to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. Page S3087
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3087
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3087
Holte Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Ryan T. Holte, of Ohio,
to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal
Claims. Page S3087
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Susan Combs, of Texas, to be
an Assistant Secretary of the Interior. Page S3087
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3087
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3087
Alston Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Rossie David Alston,
Jr., of Virginia, to be United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of Virginia. Page S3087
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Ryan T. Holte, of Ohio, to be
a Judge of the United States Court of Federal
Claims. Pages S3087 –88
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3087
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3087
Hertling Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Richard A. Hertling,
of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States
Court of Federal Claims. Page S3088
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Rossie David Alston, Jr., of
Virginia, to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Virginia. Page S3088
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3088
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3088
Baranwal Nomination—Agreement: A unani-
mous-consent agreement was reached providing that
at a time to be determined by the Majority Leader,
in consultation with the Democratic Leader, Senate
begin consideration of the nomination of Rita
Baranwal, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of Energy (Nuclear Energy); and that Senate
vote on confirmation of the nomination, with no in-
tervening action or debate, and that no further mo-
tions be in order.
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
William Bookless, of California, to be Principal
Deputy Administrator, National Nuclear Security
Administration.
Christopher Fall, of Virginia, to be Director of the
Office of Science, Department of Energy.
Richard C. Parker, of North Carolina, to be an
Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency
for International Development.
John Barsa, of Florida, to be an Assistant Admin-
istrator of the United States Agency for International
Development.
Michael J. Fitzpatrick, of Virginia, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Ecuador.
James S. Gilmore, of Virginia, to be U.S. Rep-
resentative to the Organization for Security and Co-
operation in Europe, with the rank of Ambassador.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23MY9.REC D23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D595
May 23, 2019
Jeffrey Ross Gunter, of California, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Iceland.
Michael G. Bailey, of Arizona, to be United States
Attorney for the District of Arizona for the term of
four years.
William Travis Brown, Jr., of Louisiana, to be
United States Marshal for the Middle District of
Louisiana for the term of four years.
Eric S. Gartner, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States Marshal for the Eastern District of Pennsyl-
vania for the term of four years.
Brent R. Bunn, of Idaho, to be United States
Marshal for the District of Idaho for the term of four
years.
Timothy J. Downing, of Oklahoma, to be United
States Attorney for the Western District of Okla-
homa for the term of four years.
Michael Blaine East, of North Carolina, to be
United States Marshal for the Eastern District of
North Carolina for the term of four years.
Bridget A. Brink, of Michigan, to be Ambassador
to the Slovak Republic.
John Jefferson Daigle, of Louisiana, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Cabo Verde.
Matthew S. Klimow, of New York, to be Ambas-
sador to Turkmenistan.
Kate Marie Byrnes, of Florida, to be Ambassador
to the Republic of North Macedonia.
8 Air Force nominations in the rank of general.
132 Army nominations in the rank of general.
15 Marine Corps nominations in the rank of gen-
eral.
6 Navy nominations in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Foreign
Service, Marine Corps, and Navy.
Pages S3088–91, S3135–37
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
LaJuana S. Wilcher, of Kentucky, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural
Mortgage Corporation.
Brian Callanan, of New Jersey, to be General
Counsel for the Department of the Treasury.
Brent James McIntosh, of Michigan, to be an
Under Secretary of the Treasury.
Erin Elizabeth McKee, of California, to be Ambas-
sador to the Independent State of Papua New Guin-
ea, and to serve concurrently and without additional
compensation as Ambassador to the Solomon Islands
and Ambassador to the Republic of Vanuatu.
Stephen R. Bough, of Missouri, to be a Member
of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman
Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring Decem-
ber 10, 2021.
Elizabeth J. Shapiro, of the District of Columbia,
to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen
years.
2 Air Force nominations in the rank of general.
1 Army nomination in the rank of general.
1 Navy nomination in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, and Navy.
Pages S3128–35
Nomination Withdrawn: Senate received notifica-
tion of withdrawal of the following nomination:
Scott A. Mugno, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of Labor, which was sent to the Senate
on January 16, 2019. Page S3137
Messages from the House: Page S3102
Measures Referred: Page S3102
Executive Communications: Pages S3102–04
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S3104
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S3107–09
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S3109–14
Additional Statements: Page S3102
Amendments Submitted: Pages S3118–17
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S3127
Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today.
(Total—129) Pages S3077, S3084–85
Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and
adjourned at 6:34 p.m., until 9:45 a.m. on Friday,
May 24, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S3128.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Finance: Committee ordered favorably
reported the nominations of David Fabian Black, of
North Dakota, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social
Security, and Emin Toro, of Virginia, to be a Judge
of the United States Tax Court.
ARIA IN ACTION
Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on East
Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity
Policy concluded a hearing to examine the Asia Re-
assurance Initiative Act in action, focusing on the
benefits of economic diplomacy, after receiving testi-
mony from Carlyle Currier, Colorado Farm Bureau,
Centennial; and Matthew P. Goodman, Center for
Strategic and International Studies, and Joanna I.
Lewis, Georgetown University Edmund A. Walsh
School of Foreign Service, both of Washington, D.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23MY9.REC D23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D596 May 23, 2019
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
BUDGET
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee concluded a hearing to examine the
President’s proposed budget request for fiscal year
2020 for the Department of Homeland Security,
after receiving testimony from Kevin K. McAleenan,
Acting Secretary of Homeland Security.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 83 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 2938–3020; and 9 resolutions, H.
Res. 400–408, were introduced. Pages H4160–65
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H4167–68
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 1716, to direct the Secretary of Commerce,
acting through the Administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, to con-
duct coastal community vulnerability assessments re-
lated to ocean acidification, and for other purposes,
with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–81);
H.R. 988, to provide for a study by the Ocean
Studies Board of the National Academies of Science
examining the impact of ocean acidification and
other stressors in estuarine environments, with
amendments (H. Rept. 116–82, Part 1);
H.R. 2960, making appropriations for energy and
water development and related agencies for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020, and for other pur-
poses (H. Rept. 116–83); and
H.R. 2968, making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of Defense for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2020, and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–84).
Page H4160
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Luria to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H4123
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Chaplain (Major) Thomas E. Fussell,
United States Air Force, Patrick Air Force Base,
Cape Canaveral, Florida. Page H4123
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by a yea-and-nay vote of 223 yeas to
194 nays with two answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No.
229. Page H4123, H4146
Setting Every Community Up for Retirement En-
hancement Act of 2019: The House passed H.R.
1994, to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
to encourage retirement savings, by a yea-and-nay
vote of 417 yeas to 3 nays, Roll No. 231.
Pages H4124–46, H4146–49
Rejected the McHenry motion to recommit to the
Committee on Ways and Means with instructions to
report the same back to the House forthwith with
an amendment, by a recorded vote of 200 ayes to
222 noes, Roll No. 230. Pages H4146–48
Pursuant to the Rule, the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by the Committee
on Ways and Means now printed in the bill, modi-
fied by the amendment printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–79, shall be considered as adopted.
Page H4124
Agreed that in the engrossment of the bill, the
Clerk be authorized to make technical corrections
and conforming changes. Page H4149
H. Res. 389, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 1500) and (H.R. 1994) was agreed
to Tuesday, May 21st.
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 11 a.m. tomorrow, May 24th. Page H4149
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes and
one recorded vote developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H4146, H4148, and
H4148–49. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 1:41 p.m.
Committee Meetings
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Transportation, and Housing and
Urban Development, and Related Agencies held a
markup on the Departments of Transportation, and
Housing and Urban Development, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020. The Depart-
ments of Transportation, and Housing and Urban
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations
Bill, FY 2020 was forwarded to the full Committee,
without amendment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23MY9.REC D23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D597
May 23, 2019
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Admin-
istration, and Related Agencies held a markup on
the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, and Related Agencies Appropria-
tions Bill, FY 2020. The Agriculture, Rural Devel-
opment, Food and Drug Administration, and Re-
lated Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020 was
forwarded to the full Committee, without amend-
ment.
SUMMER DRIVING DANGERS: EXPLORING
WAYS TO PROTECT DRIVERS AND THEIR
FAMILIES
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Consumer Protection and Commerce held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Summer Driving Dangers: Exploring Ways
to Protect Drivers and their Families’’. Testimony
was heard from public witnesses.
THE INSULAR AREAS MEDICAID CLIFF
Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘The Insular Areas Medicaid
Cliff’’. Testimony was heard from Esther L. Muna,
Chief Executive Officer, Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands Healthcare Corporation;
Helen C. Sablan, Director, Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands State Medicaid Agency;
Maria Theresa Arcangel, Chief Administrator, Guam
Division of Public Welfare; Michal S.A. Rhymer-
Browne, Assistant Commissioner, U.S. Virgin Islands
Department of Human Services; Sandra King Young,
Medicaid Director, American Samoa Government;
and Angela Avilá, Executive Director, Puerto Rico
State Health Insurance Administration.
MISSION IMPERATIVE: DIVERSITY AND
INCLUSION IN THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Mission Imperative:
Diversity and Inclusion in the Intelligence Commu-
nity’’. Testimony was heard from Kari Bingen, Prin-
cipal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Intel-
ligence, Department of Defense; Rita Sampson, Chief
of Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity,
Office of the Director of National Intelligence; and
Harry Coker, Executive Director, National Security
Agency.
CREATING A CLIMATE RESILIENT
AMERICA
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Creating a Climate Resilient
America’’. Testimony was heard from Keith Hodges,
State Delegate, 98th District, Virginia; and public
witnesses.
BUSINESS MEETING
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress: Full
Committee held a business meeting to consider pro-
posed recommendations on transparency. The pro-
posed recommendations on transparency were or-
dered reported.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
MAY 24, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to re-
ceive a briefing with the House Committee on Financial
Services on trade-based money laundering, 9:30 a.m.,
2360, Rayburn Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23MY9.REC D23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D598 May 23, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:45 a.m., Friday, May 24
Senate Chamber
Program for Friday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
11 a.m., Friday, May 24
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 11 a.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Barr, Andy, Ky., E662
Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga., E668
Brooks, Susan W., Ind., E662, E669
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E666
Castro, Joaquin, Tex., E667
Chabot, Steve, Ohio, E668
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E665
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E665
DeSaulnier, Mark, Calif., E661, E670
Dingell, Debbie, Mich., E661, E663, E666, E670
Flores, Bill, Tex., E663
Gallagher, Mike, Wisc., E661, E670
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E659
Gonzalez, Anthony, Ohio, E665
Gonzalez, Vicente, Tex., E662
Hartzler, Vicky, Mo., E665
Holding, George, N.C., E660, E665
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E668
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E667, E669
Loebsack, David, Iowa, E660
Mast, Brian J., Fla., E665
McCarthy, Kevin, Calif., E661, E670
McKinley, David B., W.Va., E666
Meng, Grace, N.Y., E659
Neal, Richard E., Mass., E660, E668
Neguse, Joe, Colo., E659, E660
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E665
Pascrell, Bill, Jr., N.J., E662
Payne, Donald M., Jr., N.J., E668
Posey, Bill, Fla., E663
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E663
Rose, John W., Tenn., E663
Rouda, Harley, Calif. E659
Schiff, Adam B., Calif., E660
Schrader, Kurt, Ore., E664
Scott, Robert C. ‘‘Bobby’’, Va., E667
Sewell, Terri A., Ala., E664
Shalala, Donna E., Fla., E666
Turner, Michael R., Ohio, E663
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:15 May 24, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D23MY9.REC D23MYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
