Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H2765
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019 No. 51
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. LOWENTHAL).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
March 25, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable ALAN S.
LOWENTHAL to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
SOCIALISTS’ BIG LIE
PROPAGANDA EXPOSED
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. BROOKS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, a ‘‘big lie’’ is a political propaganda
technique made famous by Germany’s
National Socialist German Workers’
Party. But more on that later.
For more than 2 years, Socialist
Democrats and their fake news media
allies, CNN, MSNBC, The New York
Times, Washington Post, and countless
others, have perpetrated the biggest
political lie, con, scam, and fraud in
American history.
Attorney General Barr’s executive
summary of Mueller’s report has pub-
licly confirmed what many of us have
known for a long time. The accusations
of collusion between President Trump
and Russia in the 2016 elections are
nothing but a big lie.
The Mueller investigation was mas-
sive. It ‘‘employed 19 lawyers who were
assisted by a team of approximately 40
FBI agents, intelligence forensic ac-
countants, and other professional staff.
The special counsel issued more than
2,800 subpoenas, executed nearly 500
search warrants, obtained more than
230 orders for communication records
. . . and interviewed approximately 500
witnesses.’’
After tens of millions of wasted
American tax dollars, the finding is
succinct: ‘‘The report does not rec-
ommend any further indictments, nor
did the special counsel obtain any
sealed indictments that have yet to be
made public. . . .’’
The investigation ‘‘did not establish
that members of the Trump campaign
conspired or coordinated with the Rus-
sian Government in its election inter-
ference activities.’’
The Mueller report vindicates Presi-
dent Trump and his 2016 campaign from
the Socialists’ baseless, reckless, and
false big lie charges of Russian election
collusion.
Equally important, there is a con-
verse to President Trump’s vindica-
tion.
Mueller’s report confirms that So-
cialist Democrats and their fake news
media allies made up nonexistent alle-
gations and engaged in the most sordid
of fake news, big lie propaganda, scam,
fraud, and smear campaign in Amer-
ican history.
Socialist Democrats and their fake
news media allies were shameless,
shameless in their big lie scam that
has inspired hatred against President
Trump and violence against Americans
who support America’s foundational
principles.
If Socialists and the fake news media
had any honor, they would cleanse
their souls and atone for their sins by
uttering mea culpas and apologizing to
the American people for the fraud and
scam committed.
More likely, however, they will dou-
ble down and propagate even more big
lies, because doubling down is essential
to big lie theory. In that vein, I quote
from another Socialist who mastered
big lie propaganda to a maximum and
deadly effect.
‘‘In the big lie, there is always a cer-
tain force of credibility; because the
broad masses of a nation are always
more easily corrupted in the deeper
strata of their emotional nature than
consciously or voluntarily; and thus in
the primitive simplicity of their minds
they more readily fall victims to the
big lie than the small lie, since they
themselves often tell small lies in lit-
tle matters but would be ashamed to
resort to large-scale falsehoods.
‘‘It would never come into their
heads to fabricate colossal untruths,
and they would not believe that others
could have the impudence to distort
the truth so infamously. Even though
the facts which prove this to be so may
be brought clearly to their minds, they
will still doubt and waver and will con-
tinue to think that there may be some
other explanation.’’
Who is this big lie master? That
quote was in 1925 by a member of Ger-
many’s National Socialist German
Workers’ Party. That is right, Ger-
many’s Socialist Party, more com-
monly known as the Nazis. The author
was Socialist Adolph Hitler in his
book, ‘‘Mein Kampf’’.
Mr. Speaker, America can either
learn from history or be doomed to re-
peat it.
When it comes to big lie political
propaganda in America, as the Mueller
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.000 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2766 March 25, 2019
report confirms, America’s Socialists
and their fake news media allies are
experts and have no peers.
Regardless, America must reject
their big lies or succumb to the danger
that lurks and horrific damage that re-
sults.
f
NATIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. HILL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker,
today I rise on National Medal of
Honor Day to recognize the recipients
of our Nation’s highest military dis-
tinction for acts above and beyond the
call of duty.
Twenty-five Medal of Honor recipi-
ents hail from Arkansas. Their stories
of self-sacrifice are not forgotten.
Today, we pay tribute to those indi-
viduals for their meticulous service,
sacrifice, and heroism.
I would like to also recognize and
thank Arkansas Boy Scout Donald J.
Fitzgerald for his outstanding work to
preserve the legacy of Medal of Honor
recipients and their stories.
Over the last 3 years, Donald has vis-
ited the graves of over 160 Medal of
Honor recipients, documenting several
Medal of Honor recipients’ stories and
lives.
He chose to share with the world
what he learned, and wrote a book
about his travels titled, ‘‘Our Missions
of Honor’’.
I applaud Donald for his initiative,
his efforts, and dedication to all Medal
of Honor recipients past and present.
We pray that their efforts may be
long remembered by our citizens.
GULF WAR MEMORIAL
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize two fellow Ar-
kansans, Jeff Kurczek and Brenten
Byrd, for their valiant efforts to memo-
rialize the bravery and legacy of vet-
erans who served in Operation Desert
Storm.
Operation Desert Storm was one of
the most successful operations in
American military history. Over 700,000
Americans were deployed overseas to
liberate Kuwait from Saddam Hussein’s
invasion. 383 Americans lost their lives
in that conflict, including four Arkan-
sans.
Last month, former Vice President
Dick Cheney and others took part in
the dedication of the future site for the
National Operation Desert Storm Me-
morial located on the National Mall in
Washington, D.C.
Jeff, a Sherwood, Arkansas, account-
ant, served our country for the dura-
tion of the Gulf war and acts as the or-
ganization’s treasurer and CFO.
Brent lives in Elm Springs, Arkan-
sas, where he works with the Veteran’s
Affairs Department on the mental well-
being of our veterans. He served honor-
ably in the U.S. Marines and later in
the U.S. Army during Desert Storm. He
now acts as the organization’s commu-
nications director.
I thank them for their service to our
Nation and commend their good work
and efforts to honor the brave men and
women who took part in Operation
Desert Storm.
VAN BUREN COUNTY WELLNESS COMMITTEE
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to commend the efforts of
the committed professionals at Van
Buren County and their determination
to improve that community’s health
and well-being.
The Van Buren County Wellness
Committee, founded by former County
Judge Roger Hooper in 2017, seeks to
create a bridge between local health re-
sources, information, and initiatives to
improve the health and well-being of
the residents.
At present, three grant-funded
health-awareness kiosks have been in-
stalled across the county featuring
asset mapping of community health re-
sources and county health initiatives.
These kiosks allow residents to find
the best doctors and healthcare serv-
ices within their communities, con-
necting individuals with the services
they need, from food insecurity to
mental health support and recovery.
I would like to extend a hand of grat-
itude and congratulations to Roger and
the entire Van Buren County Wellness
Committee for their worthwhile invest-
ment in the health of our citizens in
that county.
f
WE MUST STAND WITH OUR
FRIENDS IN ISRAEL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, this
past week, President Trump and Sec-
retary Pompeo took a bold step to af-
firm Israel’s sovereignty over the
Golan Heights. I support this adminis-
tration and our long-time friend and
ally, Israel, in this fight to protect
their homeland.
I have stood on the mountains of the
Golan where Abraham and his nephew
Lot parted ways some 4,000 years ago. I
could hear the cannons and the mis-
siles and the tanks just miles away in
war-stricken Syria. We learned how, in
a matter of hours during the Yom
Kippur war of 1974, Syrian forces
overran the Golan, jeopardizing both
Israeli and American security.
This small range of mountains, less
than 125 miles from Jerusalem, serves
as a buffer from Israel and its many
foes who desire nothing more than to
wipe them off of the face of the Earth.
From the 3rd millennium B.C., the
occupants of the Golan Heights have
included the Amorites, Arameans,
Israelites, Assyrians, Babylonians, Per-
sians, the Israelites again, Alexander
the Great, and the Roman Empire. In
later centuries, Christians crusaded,
Mongols ruled, and the Ottomans con-
quered the land.
Starting in 1885, Jewish families
bought and lived on the land in the
Golan Heights, and stayed there until
1920, when riots drove them out. For
the next 40 years, the boundaries of
this area were debated and defined by
the French and the British.
We all know the State of Israel was
born in 1948, and the Golan was mutu-
ally shared with neighboring countries.
This, however, led to constant raids
and civil unrest in the region and de-
bate over a scarce item in the area,
water.
Finally, in the 1960s, Syria ignored
previous water agreements and at-
tempted to divert water from Israel.
This led to the armed War over Water,
which was won by Israel in 1967, and
pushed the Syrians out of the Golan,
leaving Israel in control once again.
This is where most leftist naysayers
will begin their history, as if Israel had
no claim to the land in the first place
or as if it never had been contested.
This matters for America for a vari-
ety of reasons. Set aside the fact that
Israel is our most loyal and strategi-
cally vital ally in the Middle East.
Let’s look at Russia. Americans are
rightly concerned about the cyber and
geopolitical moves of that adversarial
nation. The Golan, however, is an ex-
ample of where those on the left are
turning a blind eye.
Since the time of Peter the Great and
Catherine the Great, Russia has sought
a warm-water port in the Mediterra-
nean and to stake their claim to land
south of the Black Sea. Not only does
Syria provide them both, it also pre-
sents an opportunity for Russia and
their ally Iran, as the leaders have
said, to wipe Israel off the map.
We cannot let this happen. We
mustn’t let this happen. We must con-
tinue to stand up to thugs like Putin
and Assad, and with our friends in
Israel.
THERE WAS NO COLLUSION
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, no
collusion, no collusion, no collusion.
That is right. After 2 years, Mr.
Speaker, let me say that again: there is
no collusion.
After 2 years and a cost of more than
$25 million, that is $50,000 a day spent
on this witch hunt of taxpayer money,
there was no collusion.
And indeed, there was no pot of gold
at the end of the media’s rainbow;
nothing besides fool’s gold yet again.
Mr. Speaker, how can you spend
$50,000 a day on an investigation?
As I think back, I may have been the
first person in the Chamber to call this
investigation for what it was: a witch
hunt.
Now, I am not a lawyer, but Kansas
common sense would suggest if there
was no collusion, no corrupt intent by
the President, and no crime com-
mitted, there would be absolutely no
case for an obstruction of justice
charge. But I am sure Kansas common
sense is the last thing on the minds of
some Members of Congress.
So now, during every waking hour for
675 straight days, Democrats and the
media have had a field day smearing
the President, his friends, and his fam-
ily.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.002 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2767
March 25, 2019
They have hired 19 lawyers, 40 FBI
agents, and issued nearly 3,000 sub-
poenas, all of which have further con-
firmed what we already knew before
the investigation started: there was no
collusion.
b 1215
Importantly, Mueller confirmed that
no one with the Trump campaign con-
spired or coordinated with the Russian
Government. Additionally, we found
out through this investigation the Rus-
sians made many attempts to offer to
help the Trump campaign, and time
and time again, the Trump team stood
up and rejected Russia.
I want the media, which spent thou-
sands of hours painting a picture of
collusion and conspiracy, to cover
these Mueller findings that show the
President stood firm against the Rus-
sian’s multiple attempts. And I ask the
Democrats, who misled the public for
months, to come forward and speak the
truth.
Instead, what does the biased media
and Democrats say in response to
Mueller’s verdict? Absolutely nothing.
You could almost hear a pin drop as I
walked through the Capitol today. It is
so quiet. No Democrats are here today
for morning-hour debate. What does
that say?
As I stand on the House floor today,
I have one question for this Chamber
and for this Nation: Can we please
move on and work with our President,
rather than against him, and focus on
policy rather than fantasy?
f
NEBRASKA FLOODING AND
SEVERE WEATHER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Nebraska (Mr. SMITH) for 5 minutes.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise to bring attention to the
harsh weather and flooding experienced
throughout the State of Nebraska over
the past few weeks.
On Wednesday, March 13, a large
storm, known as a bomb cyclone, hit
our State of Nebraska and much of the
Midwest. It brought with it blizzard
conditions, high wind, and large
amounts of rain, followed by highly de-
structive flooding, which continues in
some areas today.
As I spent the past week touring
damage and recovery efforts, one
theme was clear: Nebraskans don’t
scare from a challenge, nor do they
stand by as their friends and neighbors
suffer. Entire communities have come
together to fill sand bags, open shel-
ters, and rescue neighbors in need.
Ranchers across the State have battled
to clear pastures, reunify herds, and
reach newborn calves.
I appreciate President Trump moving
quickly to approve a Federal disaster
declaration requested by Governor
Ricketts and supported by the entire
Nebraska congressional delegation.
Governor Ricketts has estimated the
cost of rebuilding infrastructure de-
stroyed by the storm at more than $400
million, and the Nebraska Farm Bu-
reau estimates the toll from lost crop
and livestock production could top
even $1 billion.
The recovery will not be easy, but
the hard work and dedication of Ne-
braskans across the State will be on
full display as we recover, rebuild, and
renew what was lost in these tragic
events.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 17
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. LOWENTHAL) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Gracious God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
Send us Your spirit. Enlighten the
hearts of those who are faithful and
tireless in securing equal justice under
the law. Fulfill the hopes of those who
long for peace and security for their
children. Guide and protect all elected
officials and all who choose to serve
this Nation and local communities
through public service.
May Your will be done in and
through those who pray for divine
guidance and who trust in Your provi-
dence, even in the midst of conflicting
opinions, philosophical differences, and
the threat of violence.
Unite Your people and keep them fo-
cused on essentials that reflect Your
kingdom. May the fires of Your love,
and human freedom, renew the face of
the Earth.
And may all that is done this day be
for Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4:45 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 2 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1645
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. LOWENTHAL) at 4 o’clock
and 45 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
VENEZUELA ARMS RESTRICTION
ACT
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 920) to restrict the transfer of de-
fense articles, defense services, and
crime control articles to any element
of the security forces of Venezuela that
is under the authority of a government
of Venezuela that is not recognized as
the legitimate government of Ven-
ezuela by the Government of the
United States, and for other purposes,
as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 920
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Venezuela
Arms Restriction Act’’.
SEC. 2. RESTRICTION ON EXPORT OF COVERED
ARTICLES AND SERVICES TO CER-
TAIN SECURITY FORCES OF VEN-
EZUELA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, covered articles or
services may not be exported from the
United States to any element of the security
forces of Venezuela that is under the author-
ity of a government of Venezuela that is not
recognized as the legitimate government of
Venezuela by the Government of the United
States.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of State, in consultation with the
Secretary of Commerce and the heads of
other departments and agencies as appro-
priate, shall—
(1) determine, using such information that
is available to the Secretary of State, wheth-
er any covered article or service has been
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.004 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2768 March 25, 2019
transferred since July 2017 to the security
forces of Venezuela without a license or
other authorization as required by law; and
(2) submit such determination in writing
to the appropriate congressional commit-
tees.
SEC. 3. REPORT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in consultation with
the Secretary of Commerce as appropriate,
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report on the transfer
by foreign persons of covered articles or
services to elements of the security forces of
Venezuela that are under the authority of a
government of Venezuela that is not recog-
nized as the legitimate government of Ven-
ezuela by the Government of the United
States.
(b) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The report
required by subsection (a) shall include the
following:
(1) A list of all significant transfers by for-
eign persons of covered articles or services to
such elements of the security forces of Ven-
ezuela since July 2017.
(2) A list of all foreign persons who main-
tain an existing defense relationship with
such elements of the security forces of Ven-
ezuela.
(3) Any known use of covered articles or
services by such elements of the security
forces of Venezuela or associated forces, in-
cluding paramilitary groups, that have co-
ordinated with such security forces to as-
sault, intimidate, or murder political activ-
ists, protesters, dissidents, and other civil
society leaders, including Juan Guaido.
SEC. 4. TERMINATION.
This Act shall expire on the earlier of—
(1) the date that is 3 years after the date of
the enactment of this Act; or
(2) the date on which the President cer-
tifies to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees that the Government of Venezuela
has returned to a democratic form of govern-
ment with respect for the essential elements
of representative democracy as set forth in
Article 3 of the Inter-American Democratic
Charter.
SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
(2) COVERED ARTICLE OR SERVICE.—The term
‘‘covered article or service’’—
(A) for purposes of section 2, means—
(i) a defense article or defense service, as
such terms are defined in section 47 of the
Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794); and
(ii) any article included on the Commerce
Control List set forth in Supplement No. 1 to
part 774 of the Export Administration Regu-
lations under subchapter C of chapter VII of
title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, and
controlled for crime control purposes, if it is
determined that the end-user is likely to use
the article to violate the human rights of the
citizens of Venezuela; and
(B) for purposes of section 3, means—
(i) any defense article or defense service of
the type described in section 47 of the Arms
Export Control Act; and
(ii) any article of the type included on the
Commerce Control List set forth in Supple-
ment No. 1 to part 774 of the Export Adminis-
tration Regulations and controlled for crime
control purposes.
(3) FOREIGN PERSON.—The term ‘‘foreign
person’’ means a person that is not a United
States person.
(4) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means an
individual or entity.
(5) SECURITY FORCES OF VENEZUELA.—The
term ‘‘security forces of Venezuela’’ in-
cludes—
(A) the Bolivarian National Armed Forces,
including the Bolivarian National Guard;
(B) the Bolivarian National Intelligence
Service;
(C) the Bolivarian National Police; and
(D) the Bureau for Scientific, Criminal and
Forensic Investigations of the Ministry of
Interior, Justice, and Peace.
(6) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) a United States citizen or an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence to
the United States; or
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
the United States or of any jurisdiction
within the United States, including a foreign
branch of such an entity.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. ROONEY) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 920, the Ven-
ezuela Arms Restriction Act, as
amended, currently under consider-
ation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
920.
I would like to begin by thanking Ms.
SHALALA for her leadership in author-
ing this important piece of legislation.
She has been a leading voice in sup-
porting the Venezuelan people.
Sadly, human rights violations in
Venezuela are nothing new. In recent
months, Nicolas Maduro and his cro-
nies have intensified their brutal
crackdown on those who have bravely
and peacefully pushed for change.
With an increasing wave of dem-
onstrations protesting the Maduro re-
gime, Congress must do all it can to
support efforts by the Venezuelan peo-
ple to restore its democracy. This
means making sure that weapons from
the United States aren’t being used to
commit these horrific acts of violence
against civilians. U.S. companies and
individuals should not be able to profit
from the repression of the Venezuelan
people.
H.R. 920 codifies existing restrictions
on arms exports to Venezuela’s secu-
rity forces and adds new restrictions on
items like tear gas and riot gear that
have been used to suppress peaceful
protestors.
As the protests continue, you can be
sure that the Maduro regime will do
everything it can to silence the Ven-
ezuelan people; so Congress must do ev-
erything in its power to keep these
dangerous items out of the hands of the
Venezuelan security forces.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of the Venezuela Arms Restriction Act
introduced by my colleagues from
Florida, Congresswoman SHALALA and
Congressman DIAZ-BALART, to whom
we are deeply grateful. I would also
like to thank Chairman SIRES for his
support and leadership both of our
committee and of this bill.
The criminal socialist dictatorship of
Nicolas Maduro is systematically vio-
lating the human rights of the Ven-
ezuelan people through violence, in-
timidation, torture, and murder. Ac-
cording to local NGO Foro Penal, there
are more than 850 political prisoners in
Venezuela today.
Just last week, Maduro’s intelligence
services arrested Roberto Marrero, the
chief of staff for the interim President
and constitutional leader of Venezuela,
Juan Guaido. The regime has made lu-
dicrous claims that Marrero was lead-
ing a terrorist cell and it reportedly
planted weapons and cash to try to
frame him.
The Congress and the people of the
United States must stand united with
the people of Venezuela to help ensure
that all individuals who violate their
human rights are held accountable.
This bill supports these efforts by
identifying and holding accountable
any U.S. entities providing defense ar-
ticles to Maduro’s security forces, and
it restricts all U.S. sales of defense ar-
ticles to his socialist criminal dictator-
ship.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in demonstrating our commit-
ment to defending the security and
human rights of the Venezuelan people
by supporting this bill, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. SHALALA), the author of
this bill.
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, this
evening, Congress will vote on a bill I
introduced, H.R. 920, the Venezuela
Arms Restriction Act. This bipartisan
bill prohibits the export of defense ar-
ticles and crime control materials from
the United States to the security
forces of Venezuela.
The United States should have no
business selling these tools for oppres-
sion to the Maduro regime, as it pun-
ishes and kills those who are peacefully
protesting and demanding a return to
democracy.
Since Maduro usurped power in Janu-
ary, we have seen headline after head-
line:
‘‘Maduro’s Forces Kill, Injure
Protestors as Standoff Over Aid in
Venezuela Escalates’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.002 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2769
March 25, 2019
‘‘Four Dead, Hundreds Detained
After Venezuela Blackout’’; and
‘‘Venezuela Security Forces Kill,
Punish Anti-Maduro Protestors.’’
A few weeks ago, I traveled to the
Venezuela-Colombia border, where I
heard heartbreaking stories of friends
and family members dying of starva-
tion and treatable diseases, all while a
brutal dictator does everything pos-
sible to prevent aid from being deliv-
ered.
I met with refugees at hospitals in
Colombia and heard their harrowing
stories of being on the verge of death
due to a lack of medical care. There
were a number of high-risk pregnancies
as a result.
This is a humanitarian crisis that
has bled through Venezuela’s borders,
and it continues to grow.
This is personal for us in south Flor-
ida, where thousands of Venezuelans
who have fled the crisis now call home.
We will continue to push for TPS, be-
cause our response to this crisis must
include supporting our friends and
neighbors in south Florida and around
the country.
Today, in addition to the Venezuela
Arms Restriction Act, we will vote on
bills introduced by my south Florida
colleagues to support the people of
Venezuela as they demand free and fair
elections. We will vote on bills to pro-
vide humanitarian aid directly to the
Venezuelan people and a bill targeting
Russian influence in Venezuela and its
impact on the United States.
Today, Congress will not stand idly
by as this humanitarian crisis rages
on. With the passage of the Venezuela
Arms Restriction Act, we will move
one step closer to fulfilling our obliga-
tions to ensure that no weapons origi-
nating in the United States are used to
silence dissent through intimidation,
repression, and execution. Congress,
today, will affirm its commitment to
the women and men of Venezuela who
are fighting for democracy and a
brighter future.
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I have no additional speakers.
In closing, I thank the authors of the
bill. Congresswoman SHALALA just
spoke about the depth and breadth of
the horrible humanitarian crisis that
we see on our doorstep in Venezuela. I
would like to comment that the aver-
age Venezuelan has lost over 20 kilos of
weight in the last 2 years and they
haven’t had protein, so the whole coun-
try is starving to death, worse than
any Warsaw Pact dictatorship has ever
done.
Mr. Speaker, once again, I thank
Congressman DIAZ-BALART and cer-
tainly Chairman SIRES for their leader-
ship on this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I call on all of my col-
leagues to enthusiastically support the
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, I again thank Ms.
SHALALA for her strong and timely
leadership on this legislation. It shows
a strong commitment to the Ven-
ezuelan people and to our constituents
who care so deeply about this issue.
The human rights situation in Ven-
ezuela is absolutely deplorable, and it
is important that we take the common-
sense steps in this legislation to help
end the ongoing repression. Passing
this measure will send an important
message that Congress stands with the
Venezuelan people.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 920, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE TO
THE VENEZUELAN PEOPLE ACT
OF 2019
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 854) to provide humanitarian as-
sistance to the Venezuelan people, in-
cluding Venezuelan migrants and refu-
gees in the Americas and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 854
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Humani-
tarian Assistance to the Venezuelan People
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REPORT ON THE COORDINATION AND
DISTRIBUTION OF HUMANITARIAN
ASSISTANCE TO THE PEOPLE OF
VENEZUELA INCLUDING STRATEGY
ON FUTURE EFFORTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in coordination with
the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development, shall
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a report outlining the coordina-
tion of humanitarian assistance to the peo-
ple of Venezuela, both in Venezuela and
throughout the Western Hemisphere, with
nongovernmental organizations and inter-
national organizations operating in Ven-
ezuela or countries in the region to alleviate
the suffering of the Venezuelan people.
(b) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The report
required under subsection (a) shall include
the following:
(1) A description of how and under what
circumstances the following humanitarian
assistance has been provided:
(A) Public health commodities for Ven-
ezuelan health facilities and services, includ-
ing medicines on the World Health Organiza-
tion’s List of Essential Medicines, and basic
medical supplies and equipment.
(B) Basic food commodities and nutritional
supplements needed to address growing mal-
nutrition and improve food security for the
people of Venezuela, with a specific emphasis
on the most vulnerable populations.
(C) Technical assistance to ensure health
and food commodities are appropriately se-
lected, procured, and distributed, predomi-
nantly through local nongovernmental orga-
nizations.
(2) An identification of United States
Agency for International Development and
Department of State best practices in deliv-
ering humanitarian assistance, particularly
with regard to food assistance, and how such
best practices are being utilized in providing
humanitarian assistance to Venezuela and
countries in the region.
(3) A description of current and anticipated
challenges to distributing humanitarian as-
sistance in Venezuela and countries hosting
Venezuelan migrants.
(4) A description of efforts to ensure that
humanitarian and development assistance
for Venezuelans is coordinated with other
United States bilateral assistance in the
Western Hemisphere and does not result in
duplication or omission of such other bilat-
eral assistance.
(5) A description of how the pre-positioning
and distribution of humanitarian assistance
is being monitored and evaluated, the num-
ber of beneficiaries reached, an assessment
of how humanitarian and development as-
sistance is benefitting Venezuelan migrants
inside and outside of the country, and what
additional staff may be necessary to manage
such assistance.
(6) A strategy for future efforts to provide
humanitarian assistance to the people of
Venezuela that includes a description of fu-
ture efforts regarding the matters described
in paragraphs (1) through (5).
SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF CONGRESS.
Congress strongly condemns all violent ac-
tions by the Maduro regime and Venezuela’s
security forces to block and divert humani-
tarian assistance from entering Venezuela.
SEC. 4. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON
UNITED STATES EFFORTS TO PRO-
VIDE HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
TO THE PEOPLE OF VENEZUELA.
Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller
General of the United States shall submit to
appropriate congressional committees a re-
port assessing the impact of United States
humanitarian assistance on the people of
Venezuela, both in Venezuela and through-
out the Western Hemisphere, including the
total number of beneficiaries reached.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
TO THE PEOPLE OF VENEZUELA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President is author-
ized to provide humanitarian assistance to
support the people of Venezuela, both in
Venezuela and throughout the Western
Hemisphere, in accordance with established
international humanitarian principles.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that not less than $150,000,000 is
necessary for each of fiscal years 2020 and
2021 to carry out this section.
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
President such sums as may be necessary for
each of fiscal years 2020 and 2021 to carry out
this section.
SEC. 6. DEFINITION.
In this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means the following:
(A) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives.
(B) The Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives.
(C) The Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.008 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2770 March 25, 2019
(D) The Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate.
(2) VENEZUELAN SECURITY FORCES.—The
term ‘‘Venezuelan security forces’’ includes
the following:
(A) The Bolivarian National Armed Forces,
including the Bolivarian National Guard.
(B) The Bolivarian National Intelligence
Service.
(C) The Bolivarian National Police.
(D) The Bureau for Scientific, Criminal
and Forensic Investigations of the Ministry
of Interior, Justice, and Peace.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. ROONEY) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 854, the Hu-
manitarian Assistance to the Ven-
ezuelan People Act of 2019, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of this legislation, and I thank Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL for her leadership
on this important issue. From her first
day as a Member of Congress, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL made it clear that
supporting the Venezuelan people and
making sure they receive the humani-
tarian assistance they need would be at
the top of her agenda. I am proud to
partner with her on this bill.
Over the last few years, we have
watched in horror as the Venezuelan
economy collapsed and rule of law in
that country evaporated. Today, the
man-made crisis created by the Cha-
vez-Maduro regime in Venezuela has
reached unthinkable levels.
Ninety percent of the Venezuelan
population lives in poverty. Earlier
this month, the country suffered an-
other massive blow when its electric
grid collapsed. This made it impossible
to refrigerate food, and some Ven-
ezuelans could no longer receive nec-
essary medical treatments.
These tremendous hardships have
generated a mass exodus from Ven-
ezuela. Almost 10 percent of the popu-
lation has fled the country over the
last 3 years. The United Nations
projects that by the end of this year,
Venezuelans would make up the largest
refugee population in the world.
As suffering is only expected to wors-
en, Congress must do everything it can
to help the people of Venezuela. Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL’s legislation ad-
dresses the humanitarian crisis in Ven-
ezuela head-on by authorizing new
funding and requiring that USAID and
the State Department develop a hu-
manitarian assistance strategy for the
Venezuelan people in Venezuela and
throughout the region.
b 1700
Other countries in the region and
particularly our close allies, Colombia,
have done so much to open up their
hearts and their borders to the Ven-
ezuelan refugees. It is important that
the United States help ease the bur-
dens on our regional partners, and this
bill is an important step forward.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself as much time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of the Humanitarian Assistance to the
Venezuelan People Act introduced by
my colleague from Florida (Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL) and supported en-
thusiastically by our chairman, ALBIO
SIRES.
The humanitarian crisis in Venezuela
is unprecedented in our hemisphere and
is affecting the entire region. So far,
more than 3 million Venezuelans have
fled the criminal socialistic dictator-
ship of Maduro, whose mismanagement
and repression are creating immense
challenges for neighboring commu-
nities.
As Chairman SIRES said, there are
millions of refugees in Colombia, the
United States, and around the world
who fled from Venezuelan oppression.
This bill will ensure that we have a
long-term strategy for U.S.-led human-
itarian assistance to address the crisis
so that it is coordinated effectively
with local partners to meet the needs
of its beneficiaries.
It condemns violent actions by the
Maduro regime to block humanitarian
aid from entering the country, and it
authorizes funding necessary for future
humanitarian assistance.
The administration has courageously
led the humanitarian effort for the peo-
ple of Venezuela and has received in-
valuable support from the Govern-
ments of Colombia and Brazil; and,
more recently, the Government of the
Netherlands has agreed to allow the
nearby island of Curacao to be used as
a hub to support future humanitarian
aid.
The United States and this Congress
must remain united in our support for
the people of Venezuela in their strug-
gle for freedom and democracy, espe-
cially as they struggle to survive with-
out adequate food and basic medicines.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the author of this bill, the
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL).
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. ROONEY).
Nicolas Maduro is an illegitimate
president. As a result of his brutal dic-
tatorship, the Venezuelan people are
suffering in one of the worst humani-
tarian crises in the Western Hemi-
sphere.
Without basic food and medicine,
people are starving and dying. As many
as 3.4 million Venezuelans have left the
country and migrated to neighboring
countries, which are having immense
difficulty absorbing such high volumes
of migrants.
My bill would help alleviate the pain
of the Venezuelan people by providing
humanitarian assistance in accordance
with established international humani-
tarian principles to those within the
country and in the region. It gives Con-
gress the authority to provide as much
funding as is necessary to address the
crisis in both 2020 and 2021, with no less
than $150 million for each year.
It also requires the State Depart-
ment and USAID to show the American
people the most effective way to co-
ordinate with nongovernmental and
international organizations operating
throughout the region, and the bill also
requires the administration to submit
a report to Congress assessing the im-
pact of U.S. humanitarian assistance.
Maduro has proven that he is willing
to let his own people suffer and die
rather than accept international aid. It
is not enough to provide USAID with
the funds for this aid. The administra-
tion must show that they are strategi-
cally trying everything they can to get
the aid to the Venezuelan people inside
the country, not just leaving it at the
border. That is what this bill will
achieve.
Finally, the bill expresses Congress’
strong condemnation of all violent ac-
tions by the Maduro regime and Ven-
ezuela’s security forces to block and di-
vert humanitarian assistance.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to support this important legislation.
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, we have no additional speakers.
I would like to thank the author once
again, my colleague, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, and my neighbor in the Can-
non Building.
I would like to also thank, once
again, Chairman SIRES for his leader-
ship in this area, and I enthusiastically
encourage everyone in this Congress to
support this bill and prepare for the
day when we can get aid to the people
of Venezuela.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
I would like to once again thank the
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL) for her remarkable
leadership on this issue, which dem-
onstrates her strong commitment to
the Venezuelan people and to her con-
stituents who care so deeply about this
issue.
It is crucial that we stand with our
partners and allies in the region to pro-
vide desperately needed assistance to
the Venezuelan people and help relieve
the burden that Colombians and Ven-
ezuela’s other neighbors have taken on
over the last few years.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.003 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2771
March 25, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 854, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EUROPEAN ENERGY SECURITY
AND DIVERSIFICATION ACT OF 2019
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1616) to prioritize the efforts of
and enhance coordination among
United States agencies to encourage
countries in Central and Eastern Eu-
rope to diversify their energy sources
and supply routes, increase Europe’s
energy security, and help the United
States reach its global energy security
goals, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1616
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘European
Energy Security and Diversification Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) EARLY-STAGE PROJECT SUPPORT.—The
term ‘‘early-stage project support’’ includes
the following:
(A) Feasibility studies.
(B) Resource evaluations.
(C) Project appraisal and costing.
(D) Pilot projects.
(E) Commercial support, such as trade mis-
sions, reverse trade missions, technical
workshops, international buyer programs,
and international partner searchers to link
suppliers to projects.
(F) Technical assistance and other guid-
ance to improve the local regulatory envi-
ronment and market frameworks to encour-
age transparent competition and enhance en-
ergy security.
(G) Long-term energy sector planning.
(2) LATE-STAGE PROJECT SUPPORT.—The
term ‘‘late-stage project support’’ includes
support described in section 1421 of the Bet-
ter Utilization of Investments Leading to
Development Act of 2018 (also referred to as
the ‘‘BUILD Act of 2018’’; enacted as division
F of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018
(Public Law 115–254)).
(3) INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—
The term ‘‘international financial institu-
tion’’ has the meaning given such term in
section 1701(c) of the International Financial
Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c)).
SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS; STATEMENT OF
POLICY.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the United States has eco-
nomic and national security interests in as-
sisting European and Eurasian countries
achieve energy security through diversifica-
tion of their energy sources and supply
routes.
(b) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It is the policy
of the United States to—
(1) advance United States foreign policy
and development goals by assisting European
and Eurasian countries to reduce their de-
pendence on energy resources from countries
that use energy dependence for undue polit-
ical influence, such as the Russian Federa-
tion, which has used natural gas to coerce,
intimidate, and influence other countries;
(2) promote the energy security of Euro-
pean and Eurasian allies and partners of the
United States by encouraging the develop-
ment of accessible, transparent, and com-
petitive energy markets that provide diversi-
fied sources, types, and routes of energy;
(3) encourage United States public and pri-
vate sector investment in European and Eur-
asian energy infrastructure projects to
bridge the gap between energy security re-
quirements and commercial demand in a way
that is consistent with the region’s absorp-
tive capacity;
(4) help facilitate a well-functioning mar-
ket for energy resources in a way that bene-
fits the energy security of the United States
and European and Eurasian allies and part-
ners of the United States; and
(5) help facilitate the export of United
States energy technology and expertise to
global markets.
SEC. 4. PRIORITIZATION OF EFFORTS AND AS-
SISTANCE FOR ENERGY INFRA-
STRUCTURE PROJECTS IN EUROPE
AND EURASIA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In pursuing the policy de-
scribed in section 3(b), the Secretary of
State, in coordination with the heads of
United States agencies that operate under
the foreign policy guidance of the Secretary,
shall, as appropriate, prioritize and expedite
the efforts of the Department of State and
such agencies in supporting the efforts of the
European Commission and European and
Eurasian countries to increase the energy se-
curity of such countries, including through—
(1) providing diplomatic and political sup-
port to the European Commission and such
countries, as necessary to—
(A) facilitate international negotiations
concerning cross-border infrastructure;
(B) enhance Europe’s and Eurasia’s regu-
latory environment with respect to energy;
and
(C) develop accessible, transparent, and
competitive energy markets supplied by di-
verse sources, types, and routes of energy;
and
(2) providing support to improve European
and Eurasian energy markets, including
early-stage project support and late-stage
project support for the construction or im-
provement of energy infrastructure, as nec-
essary, to—
(A) diversify the energy sources and supply
routes of such countries;
(B) enhance energy market integration
across the region; and
(C) increase competition within energy
markets.
(b) PROJECT SELECTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State, in
consultation with the heads of agencies de-
scribed in subsection (a), shall identify and,
in accordance with paragraph (3), select en-
ergy infrastructure projects that would be
appropriate for United States assistance
under this section.
(2) PROJECT ELIGIBILITY.—A project is eligi-
ble for United States assistance under this
section if such project is—
(A) related to—
(i) natural gas infrastructure, such as
interconnectors, storage facilities, liquefied
natural gas import facilities, or reverse flow
capacity;
(ii) electricity transmission infrastructure,
electricity storage projects, or smart grid
projects;
(iii) renewable energy projects in wind,
solar, tidal, or other forms; or
(iv) the improvement, rehabilitation, or
construction of electricity generation facili-
ties to increase the efficiency and reliability
of electricity production; and
(B) located in a European or Eurasian
country.
(3) PREFERENCE.—In selecting among
projects that are eligible under paragraph
(2), the Secretary of State and the heads of
agencies described in subsection (a) shall
give preference to projects that—
(A) improve the capacity of energy systems
to efficiently transfer gas and electricity
within and between European or Eurasian
countries;
(B) have already been identified by the Eu-
ropean Commission as being integral for the
energy security of European or Eurasian
countries;
(C) are expected to enhance energy market
integration and transparency;
(D) can attract funding from the private
sector, an international financial institu-
tion, the government of the country in which
the project will be carried out, or the Euro-
pean Commission; or
(E) have the potential to use United States
goods and services.
(c) TYPES OF ASSISTANCE.—
(1) DIPLOMATIC AND POLITICAL SUPPORT.—
The Secretary of State, in coordination with
the heads of agencies described in subsection
(a), as appropriate, shall provide diplomatic
and political support to the European Com-
mission and European or Eurasian countries,
as necessary, including by using the diplo-
matic and political influence and expertise
of the Department of State to build the ca-
pacity of such countries to resolve any im-
pediments to the development of projects se-
lected under subsection (b).
(2) EARLY-STAGE PROJECT SUPPORT.—The
Secretary of State, in coordination, as ap-
propriate, with the heads of agencies de-
scribed in subsection (a), including the Di-
rector of the Trade and Development Agen-
cy, shall provide early-stage project support
to projects selected under subsection (b), as
necessary and in accordance with section 661
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
U.S.C. 2421).
(3) LATE-STAGE PROJECT SUPPORT.—The
Secretary of State, in coordination, as ap-
propriate, with the heads of agencies de-
scribed in subsection (a), shall provide late-
stage project support to projects selected
under subsection (b), as necessary and in ac-
cordance with section 1412 of the Better Uti-
lization of Investments Leading to Develop-
ment Act (relating to the establishment of
the United States International Develop-
ment Finance Corporation).
(d) FUNDING.—
(1) TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.—Sub-
paragraph (A) of section 661(f)(1) of the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2421(f)(1)) is amended by striking ‘‘$48,000,000
for fiscal year 2000’’ and inserting ‘‘$79,500,000
for fiscal year 2020’’.
(2) COUNTERING RUSSIAN INFLUENCE FUND.—
Section 254 of the Countering Russian Influ-
ence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017 (en-
acted as title II of the Countering America’s
Adversaries Through Sanctions Act; Public
Law 115–44; 22 U.S.C. 9543) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘fiscal
years 2018 and 2019’’ and adding ‘‘fiscal years
2020 and 2021’’; and
(B) in subsection (b), by adding at the end
the following new paragraph:
‘‘(7) To assist United States agencies that
operate under the foreign policy guidance of
the Secretary of State in providing assist-
ance under section 4 of the European Energy
Security and Diversification Act of 2019.’’.
(e) EXCEPTION.—No United States assist-
ance under this section may be provided to a
European or Eurasian country that engages
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.013 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2772 March 25, 2019
in a significant transaction described in sub-
section (a) of section 231 of the Countering
America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions
Act (22 U.S.C. 9525).
SEC. 5. PROGRESS REPORTS.
Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this Act and annually
thereafter for seven years, the President
shall transmit to the Committee on Foreign
Relations of the Senate and the Committee
on Foreign Affairs of the House of Represent-
atives a report on progress made in providing
assistance for projects under section 4 that
includes the following:
(1) A description of the energy infrastruc-
ture projects the United States has identi-
fied for such assistance.
(2) For each such project, the following:
(A) A description of the role of the United
States in the project, including in early-
stage project support and late-stage project
support.
(B) The amount and form of any debt fi-
nancing and insurance provided by the
United States Government for the project.
(C) The amount and form of any early-
stage project support.
(D) An update on the progress made on the
project as of the date of the report.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. SIRES) and the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. ROONEY) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 1616, the Eu-
ropean Energy Security and Diver-
sification Act of 2019, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the
European Energy Security and Diver-
sification Act of 2019.
I would like to thank my colleagues
on the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr.
KINZINGER and Mr. KEATING, for intro-
ducing this bipartisan legislation.
When we look at the full scope of
Vladimir Putin’s nefarious behavior
throughout the world, we see it take
many shapes: insidious attempts to in-
fluence democratic elections, incur-
sions into the sovereign territory of
other nations, and military exercises
designed to intimidate its neighbors.
But this legislation addresses yet an-
other tool in Putin’s arsenal: the ma-
nipulation of natural resources.
More and more, we see Russia using
energy as a weapon to blackmail coun-
tries depending on Russian energy
sources. The European Union and many
of our allies and partners in Europe
recognize this threat and have begun to
take steps to reduce their vulnerability
to Russian pressure.
This bill will ramp up American sup-
port for Europe’s energy security and
reduce dependence on Russia, including
financial support for projects that bet-
ter connect European energy networks
and improve energy efficiency.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this legislation,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of the European Energy Security and
Diversification Act, which the Foreign
Affairs Committee adopted unani-
mously earlier this month.
This bill, sponsored by Mr. KEATING
and Mr. KINZINGER, for whom we are
deeply thankful, will help European
and Eurasian countries reduce their re-
liance on Russian energy by providing
diplomatic, political, technical, and fi-
nancial support to projects that diver-
sify energy sources and supply routes,
enhance energy market integration
across the region, and increase com-
petition within the energy markets.
Europe imports nearly 40 percent of
its natural gas from Russia. Some EU
countries source as much as 100 percent
of their gas from Moscow, which has
weaponized its energy dominance in
the region to coerce, intimidate, and
influence the political decisions of
countries that depend on it for their
energy.
In 2006, 2009, and 2014, Vladimir Putin
cut off gas to Ukraine, a country he
has tried to dismember through his il-
legal annexation of Crimea and his
continued aggression in the East.
Putin is now trying to build a mas-
sive new pipeline to Germany, the Nord
Stream 2. This pipeline will increase
Russian influence over Berlin, a key
NATO ally and the largest economy in
the EU, and also reduce Russia’s reli-
ance on Ukraine as a vital pipeline
transit route to other European mar-
kets. This will deprive Ukraine of its
critical transit fees, the proceeds of
which are roughly equal to what it
spends on its military.
It is not hard to see that this is a
strategic play by Putin to increase
pressure on Ukraine, where he con-
tinues to wage a war, and also get clos-
er to Germany and dominate their en-
ergy.
This bill isn’t just about helping Eu-
rope. This bill advances U.S. foreign
policy and economic interests by
strengthening our alliances with coun-
tries in the region and promoting U.S.
energy as an appropriate alternative to
the bondage of Russia.
The shale revolution and the repeal
of the 1970s-era ban on crude oil sales
in 2015 have unlocked America’s abun-
dant oil and natural gas reserves.
These have enabled us to become the
world’s largest producer of oil and
gas—some 13 million barrels a day
now—giving our partners and allies a
reliable alternative to unstable sources
of energy.
We also lead the world in cutting-
edge clean energy technologies, one of
which, carbon sequester, is very impor-
tant for the environment as well. Oth-
ers are like nuclear and renewables,
which this bill promotes.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. KEATING).
Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES), the chair of the subcommittee
dealing with the very important issue
that we are dealing with now in the
Western Hemisphere and Venezuela,
and I associate myself with his re-
marks in that regard.
I thank the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. ROONEY), who has been a strong
advocate of energy diversification and
renewable energy on the Foreign Af-
fairs Committee, for his support.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1616, which is a bill I introduced with
the ranking member, Representative
KINZINGER, as well as a bill I sponsored
towards the last days of the last Con-
gress with Senator CHRIS MURPHY of
Connecticut, showing bipartisan and
bicameral support for this effort.
Mr. Speaker, we saw again last week-
end with the summary of the Mueller
report coming forward just under-
scoring, once again, the attack that
was made on our country by Russia.
There is no mistaking it now. There
was little mistake, given our intel-
ligence sources at the time.
This is not only a way that Russia is
seeking, number one, to attack the de-
mocracies of our country, but also to
strategically create a wedge with the
greatest asset we have, something that
they certainly do not have.
b 1715
That asset is the coalition we have
with our European allies. It is one of
our greatest strengths, and it is unique
to this historic coalition.
One of the ways Russia is continuing
to break up this Western coalition and
cause great damage, is not just the at-
tacks like they had in the U.S. over
their election and democracy, but also
wielding energy as a weapon to break
up this great coalition we have, hurt
democracies in Europe—particularly
Eastern Europe and here—undercutting
our interest in sharing the values that
we have with our greatest allies.
This is something in terms of the en-
ergy resources we can’t take for grant-
ed. We know that this is a time when
the U.S. is a great exporter of energy
in this world, and it is something that
will benefit our economy going forward
but will also benefit the diversification
of energy in Europe as well, something
that will advance their economy, but
something also that will give them
great protection against this Russian
threat.
We also know that it is not just the
exporting of this energy that is going
to be of value, but this bill also targets
renewable energy development as well,
and that is something that brings the
European countries together with the
U.S., and also, together, sets us at a
greater stage to compete worldwide.
We can work together exchanging
technological advances. We can work
together as we share investments in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.004 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2773
March 25, 2019
each other’s countries. This is some-
thing that will both help the U.S. econ-
omy as a major exporter, but also help
our growth going forward. So, we need
to work more closely. Specifically, this
bill authorizes financing for private-
sector investments both in energy se-
curity projects in the United States
and likewise in the trade that will
ensue in renewables.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
committee for taking such early action
in this Congress. I think it states the
priority nature of this, knowing that
this is going to be something that en-
hances European security, our secu-
rity, enhances our economy and theirs,
and seeks to protect us. Because as
they talk about projects like Nord
Stream 2 in Germany, they are using
right now that leverage to create a
threat and to isolate countries like
Ukraine from their basic energy eco-
nomic development.
This is important in so many re-
spects. I urge my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle, showing the leader-
ship of this bipartisan bill, to move it
forward quickly.
I also want to recognize, again, Sen-
ator MURPHY who has been such a lead-
er of this on the Senate side. It is rare
that we have such strong bipartisan
support for a bill, as well as bicameral
support. Let’s go ahead and move this
forward today.
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I would once again like
to thank the authors of this important
bill, Mr. KINZINGER and Mr. KEATING, as
well as Chairman SIRES for his support,
and I am glad to know that Senator
MURPHY is on the case as well.
One more time, I would just like to
say, if I might, what a terrible idea the
Nord Stream 2 pipeline is, and I appre-
ciate the strong comments that Con-
gressman KEATING just made. We
should be opposing that, and we should
be supporting the Trans-Caucasus pipe-
line to get more oil into Eastern Eu-
rope, away from Russia, and out of the
bondage of their control of the pipe-
lines.
So, I would like to thank the authors
one more time and encourage all our
colleagues to support this important
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume. I
want to thank, again, Mr. KINZINGER
and Mr. KEATING for their work on this
bill to bolster our allies in the face of
Russian pressure.
This is a good measure that addresses
Russia’s use of energy to exploit and
blackmail countries around the world,
and I urge my colleagues to support it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1616, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. SIRES. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
MEDICAID SERVICES INVESTMENT
AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2019
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1839) to amend title XIX to ex-
tend protection for Medicaid recipients
of home and community-based services
against spousal impoverishment, estab-
lish a State Medicaid option to provide
coordinated care to children with com-
plex medical conditions through health
homes, prevent the misclassification of
drugs for purposes of the Medicaid drug
rebate program, and for other purposes,
as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1839
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Medicaid
Services Investment and Accountability Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF PROTECTION FOR MED-
ICAID RECIPIENTS OF HOME AND
COMMUNITY-BASED SERVICES
AGAINST SPOUSAL IMPOVERISH-
MENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2404 of Public
Law 111–148 (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5 note), as
amended by section 3(a) of the Medicaid Ex-
tenders Act of 2019 (Public Law 116–3), is
amended by striking ‘‘March 31, 2019’’ and in-
serting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—
(1) PROTECTING STATE SPOUSAL INCOME AND
ASSET DISREGARD FLEXIBILITY UNDER WAIVERS
AND PLAN AMENDMENTS.—Nothing in section
2404 of Public Law 111–148 (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5
note) or section 1924 of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5) shall be construed as
prohibiting a State from disregarding an in-
dividual’s spousal income and assets under a
State waiver or plan amendment described
in paragraph (2) for purposes of making de-
terminations of eligibility for home and
community-based services or home and com-
munity-based attendant services and sup-
ports under such waiver or plan amendment.
(2) STATE WAIVER OR PLAN AMENDMENT DE-
SCRIBED.—A State waiver or plan amendment
described in this paragraph is any of the fol-
lowing:
(A) A waiver or plan amendment to provide
medical assistance for home and community-
based services under a waiver or plan amend-
ment under subsection (c), (d), or (i) of sec-
tion 1915 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396n) or under section 1115 of such
Act (42 U.S.C. 1315).
(B) A plan amendment to provide medical
assistance for home and community-based
services for individuals by reason of being
determined eligible under section
1902(a)(10)(C) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1396a(a)(10)(C)) or by reason of section 1902(f)
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(f)) or otherwise
on the basis of a reduction of income based
on costs incurred for medical or other reme-
dial care under which the State disregarded
the income and assets of the individual’s
spouse in determining the initial and ongo-
ing financial eligibility of an individual for
such services in place of the spousal impov-
erishment provisions applied under section
1924 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5).
(C) A plan amendment to provide medical
assistance for home and community-based
attendant services and supports under sec-
tion 1915(k) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n(k)).
SEC. 3. STATE OPTION TO PROVIDE COORDI-
NATED CARE THROUGH A HEALTH
HOME FOR CHILDREN WITH MEDI-
CALLY COMPLEX CONDITIONS.
Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) is amended by inserting
after section 1945 the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 1945A. STATE OPTION TO PROVIDE COORDI-
NATED CARE THROUGH A HEALTH
HOME FOR CHILDREN WITH MEDI-
CALLY COMPLEX CONDITIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
1902(a)(1) (relating to statewideness) and sec-
tion 1902(a)(10)(B) (relating to com-
parability), beginning October 1, 2022, a
State, at its option as a State plan amend-
ment, may provide for medical assistance
under this title to children with medically
complex conditions who choose to enroll in a
health home under this section by selecting
a designated provider, a team of health care
professionals operating with such a provider,
or a health team as the child’s health home
for purposes of providing the child with
health home services.
‘‘(b) HEALTH HOME QUALIFICATION STAND-
ARDS.—The Secretary shall establish stand-
ards for qualification as a health home for
purposes of this section. Such standards
shall include requiring designated providers,
teams of health care professionals operating
with such providers, and health teams to
demonstrate to the State the ability to do
the following:
‘‘(1) Coordinate prompt care for children
with medically complex conditions, includ-
ing access to pediatric emergency services at
all times.
‘‘(2) Develop an individualized comprehen-
sive pediatric family-centered care plan for
children with medically complex conditions
that accommodates patient preferences.
‘‘(3) Work in a culturally and linguistically
appropriate manner with the family of a
child with medically complex conditions to
develop and incorporate into such child’s
care plan, in a manner consistent with the
needs of the child and the choices of the
child’s family, ongoing home care, commu-
nity-based pediatric primary care, pediatric
inpatient care, social support services, and
local hospital pediatric emergency care.
‘‘(4) Coordinate access to—
‘‘(A) subspecialized pediatric services and
programs for children with medically com-
plex conditions, including the most intensive
diagnostic, treatment, and critical care lev-
els as medically necessary; and
‘‘(B) palliative services if the State pro-
vides such services under the State plan (or
a waiver of such plan).
‘‘(5) Coordinate care for children with
medically complex conditions with out-of-
State providers furnishing care to such chil-
dren to the maximum extent practicable for
the families of such children and where
medically necessary, in accordance with
guidance issued under subsection (e)(1) and
section 431.52 of title 42, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations.
‘‘(6) Collect and report information under
subsection (g)(1).
‘‘(c) PAYMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A State shall provide a
designated provider, a team of health care
professionals operating with such a provider,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.015 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2774 March 25, 2019
or a health team with payments for the pro-
vision of health home services to each child
with medically complex conditions that se-
lects such provider, team of health care pro-
fessionals, or health team as the child’s
health home. Payments made to a des-
ignated provider, a team of health care pro-
fessionals operating with such a provider, or
a health team for such services shall be
treated as medical assistance for purposes of
section 1903(a), except that, during the first
2 fiscal year quarters that the State plan
amendment is in effect, the Federal medical
assistance percentage applicable to such
payments shall be increased by 15 percentage
points, but in no case may exceed 90 percent.
‘‘(2) METHODOLOGY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The State shall specify
in the State plan amendment the method-
ology the State will use for determining pay-
ment for the provision of health home serv-
ices. Such methodology for determining pay-
ment—
‘‘(i) may be tiered to reflect, with respect
to each child with medically complex condi-
tions provided such services by a designated
provider, a team of health care professionals
operating with such a provider, or a health
team, the severity or number of each such
child’s chronic conditions, life-threatening
illnesses, disabilities, or rare diseases, or the
specific capabilities of the provider, team of
health care professionals, or health team;
and
‘‘(ii) shall be established consistent with
section 1902(a)(30)(A).
‘‘(B) ALTERNATE MODELS OF PAYMENT.—The
methodology for determining payment for
provision of health home services under this
section shall not be limited to a per-member
per-month basis and may provide (as pro-
posed by the State and subject to approval
by the Secretary) for alternate models of
payment.
‘‘(3) PLANNING GRANTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Beginning October 1,
2022, the Secretary may award planning
grants to States for purposes of developing a
State plan amendment under this section. A
planning grant awarded to a State under this
paragraph shall remain available until ex-
pended.
‘‘(B) STATE CONTRIBUTION.—A State award-
ed a planning grant shall contribute an
amount equal to the State percentage deter-
mined under section 1905(b) (without regard
to section 5001 of Public Law 111–5) for each
fiscal year for which the grant is awarded.
‘‘(C) LIMITATION.—The total amount of
payments made to States under this para-
graph shall not exceed $5,000,000.
‘‘(d) COORDINATING CARE.—
‘‘(1) HOSPITAL NOTIFICATION.—A State with
a State plan amendment approved under this
section shall require each hospital that is a
participating provider under the State plan
(or a waiver of such plan) to establish proce-
dures for, in the case of a child with medi-
cally complex conditions who is enrolled in a
health home pursuant to this section and
seeks treatment in the emergency depart-
ment of such hospital, notifying the health
home of such child of such treatment.
‘‘(2) EDUCATION WITH RESPECT TO AVAIL-
ABILITY OF HEALTH HOME SERVICES.—In order
for a State plan amendment to be approved
under this section, a State shall include in
the State plan amendment a description of
the State’s process for educating providers
participating in the State plan (or a waiver
of such plan) on the availability of health
home services for children with medically
complex conditions, including the process by
which such providers can refer such children
to a designated provider, team of health care
professionals operating such a provider, or
health team for the purpose of establishing a
health home through which such children
may receive such services.
‘‘(3) FAMILY EDUCATION.—In order for a
State plan amendment to be approved under
this section, a State shall include in the
State plan amendment a description of the
State’s process for educating families with
children eligible to receive health home serv-
ices pursuant to this section of the avail-
ability of such services. Such process shall
include the participation of family-to-family
entities or other public or private organiza-
tions or entities who provide outreach and
information on the availability of health
care items and services to families of indi-
viduals eligible to receive medical assistance
under the State plan (or a waiver of such
plan).
‘‘(4) MENTAL HEALTH COORDINATION.—A
State with a State plan amendment ap-
proved under this section shall consult and
coordinate, as appropriate, with the Sec-
retary in addressing issues regarding the pre-
vention and treatment of mental illness and
substance use among children with medi-
cally complex conditions receiving health
home services under this section.
‘‘(e) GUIDANCE ON COORDINATING CARE FROM
OUT-OF-STATE PROVIDERS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than October 1,
2020, the Secretary shall issue (and update as
the Secretary determines necessary) guid-
ance to State Medicaid directors on—
‘‘(A) best practices for using out-of-State
providers to provide care to children with
medically complex conditions;
‘‘(B) coordinating care for such children
provided by such out-of-State providers (in-
cluding when provided in emergency and
non-emergency situations);
‘‘(C) reducing barriers for such children re-
ceiving care from such providers in a timely
fashion; and
‘‘(D) processes for screening and enrolling
such providers in the respective State plan
(or a waiver of such plan), including efforts
to streamline such processes or reduce the
burden of such processes on such providers.
‘‘(2) STAKEHOLDER INPUT.—In carrying out
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall issue a re-
quest for information to seek input from
children with medically complex conditions
and their families, States, providers (includ-
ing children’s hospitals, hospitals, pediatri-
cians, and other providers), managed care
plans, children’s health groups, family and
beneficiary advocates, and other stake-
holders with respect to coordinating the care
for such children provided by out-of-State
providers.
‘‘(f) MONITORING.—A State shall include in
the State plan amendment—
‘‘(1) a methodology for tracking reductions
in inpatient days and reductions in the total
cost of care resulting from improved care co-
ordination and management under this sec-
tion;
‘‘(2) a proposal for use of health informa-
tion technology in providing health home
services under this section and improving
service delivery and coordination across the
care continuum (including the use of wire-
less patient technology to improve coordina-
tion and management of care and patient ad-
herence to recommendations made by their
provider); and
‘‘(3) a methodology for tracking prompt
and timely access to medically necessary
care for children with medically complex
conditions from out-of-State providers.
‘‘(g) DATA COLLECTION.—
‘‘(1) PROVIDER REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—
In order to receive payments from a State
under subsection (c), a designated provider, a
team of health care professionals operating
with such a provider, or a health team shall
report to the State, at such time and in such
form and manner as may be required by the
State, the following information:
‘‘(A) With respect to each such provider,
team of health care professionals, or health
team, the name, National Provider Identi-
fication number, address, and specific health
care services offered to be provided to chil-
dren with medically complex conditions who
have selected such provider, team of health
care professionals, or health team as the
health home of such children.
‘‘(B) Information on all applicable meas-
ures for determining the quality of health
home services provided by such provider,
team of health care professionals, or health
team, including, to the extent applicable,
child health quality measures and measures
for centers of excellence for children with
complex needs developed under this title,
title XXI, and section 1139A.
‘‘(C) Such other information as the Sec-
retary shall specify in guidance.
When appropriate and feasible, such pro-
vider, team of health care professionals, or
health team, as the case may be, shall use
health information technology in providing
the State with such information.
‘‘(2) STATE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) COMPREHENSIVE REPORT.—A State
with a State plan amendment approved
under this section shall report to the Sec-
retary (and, upon request, to the Medicaid
and CHIP Payment and Access Commission),
at such time and in such form and manner
determined by the Secretary to be reason-
able and minimally burdensome, the fol-
lowing information:
‘‘(i) Information reported under paragraph
(1).
‘‘(ii) The number of children with medi-
cally complex conditions who have selected a
health home pursuant to this section.
‘‘(iii) The nature, number, and prevalence
of chronic conditions, life-threatening ill-
nesses, disabilities, or rare diseases that
such children have.
‘‘(iv) The type of delivery systems and pay-
ment models used to provide services to such
children under this section.
‘‘(v) The number and characteristics of des-
ignated providers, teams of health care pro-
fessionals operating with such providers, and
health teams selected as health homes pur-
suant to this section, including the number
and characteristics of out-of-State providers,
teams of health care professionals operating
with such providers, and health teams who
have provided health care items and services
to such children.
‘‘(vi) The extent to which such children re-
ceive health care items and services under
the State plan.
‘‘(vii) Quality measures developed specifi-
cally with respect to health care items and
services provided to children with medically
complex conditions.
‘‘(B) REPORT ON BEST PRACTICES.—Not later
than 90 days after a State has a State plan
amendment approved under this section,
such State shall submit to the Secretary,
and make publicly available on the appro-
priate State website, a report on how the
State is implementing guidance issued under
subsection (e)(1), including through any best
practices adopted by the State.
‘‘(h) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section may be construed—
‘‘(1) to require a child with medically com-
plex conditions to enroll in a health home
under this section;
‘‘(2) to limit the choice of a child with
medically complex conditions in selecting a
designated provider, team of health care pro-
fessionals operating with such a provider, or
health team that meets the health home
qualification standards established under
subsection (b) as the child’s health home; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.006 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2775
March 25, 2019
‘‘(3) to reduce or otherwise modify—
‘‘(A) the entitlement of children with
medically complex conditions to early and
periodic screening, diagnostic, and treat-
ment services (as defined in section 1905(r));
or
‘‘(B) the informing, providing, arranging,
and reporting requirements of a State under
section 1902(a)(43).
‘‘(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) CHILD WITH MEDICALLY COMPLEX CONDI-
TIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the term ‘child with medically complex
conditions’ means an individual under 21
years of age who—
‘‘(i) is eligible for medical assistance under
the State plan (or under a waiver of such
plan); and
‘‘(ii) has at least—
‘‘(I) one or more chronic conditions that
cumulatively affect three or more organ sys-
tems and severely reduces cognitive or phys-
ical functioning (such as the ability to eat,
drink, or breathe independently) and that
also requires the use of medication, durable
medical equipment, therapy, surgery, or
other treatments; or
‘‘(II) one life-limiting illness or rare pedi-
atric disease (as defined in section 529(a)(3)
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 360ff(a)(3))).
‘‘(B) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this paragraph shall prevent the Secretary
from establishing higher levels as to the
number or severity of chronic, life threat-
ening illnesses, disabilities, rare diseases or
mental health conditions for purposes of de-
termining eligibility for receipt of health
home services under this section.
‘‘(2) CHRONIC CONDITION.—The term ‘chronic
condition’ means a serious, long-term phys-
ical, mental, or developmental disability or
disease, including the following:
‘‘(A) Cerebral palsy.
‘‘(B) Cystic fibrosis.
‘‘(C) HIV/AIDS.
‘‘(D) Blood diseases, such as anemia or
sickle cell disease.
‘‘(E) Muscular dystrophy.
‘‘(F) Spina bifida.
‘‘(G) Epilepsy.
‘‘(H) Severe autism spectrum disorder.
‘‘(I) Serious emotional disturbance or seri-
ous mental health illness.
‘‘(3) HEALTH HOME.—The term ‘health
home’ means a designated provider (includ-
ing a provider that operates in coordination
with a team of health care professionals) or
a health team selected by a child with medi-
cally complex conditions (or the family of
such child) to provide health home services.
‘‘(4) HEALTH HOME SERVICES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘health home
services’ means comprehensive and timely
high-quality services described in subpara-
graph (B) that are provided by a designated
provider, a team of health care professionals
operating with such a provider, or a health
team.
‘‘(B) SERVICES DESCRIBED.—The services de-
scribed in this subparagraph shall include—
‘‘(i) comprehensive care management;
‘‘(ii) care coordination, health promotion,
and providing access to the full range of pe-
diatric specialty and subspecialty medical
services, including services from out-of-
State providers, as medically necessary;
‘‘(iii) comprehensive transitional care, in-
cluding appropriate follow-up, from inpa-
tient to other settings;
‘‘(iv) patient and family support (including
authorized representatives);
‘‘(v) referrals to community and social sup-
port services, if relevant; and
‘‘(vi) use of health information technology
to link services, as feasible and appropriate.
‘‘(5) DESIGNATED PROVIDER.—The term ‘des-
ignated provider’ means a physician (includ-
ing a pediatrician or a pediatric specialty or
subspecialty provider), children’s hospital,
clinical practice or clinical group practice,
prepaid inpatient health plan or prepaid am-
bulatory health plan (as defined by the Sec-
retary), rural clinic, community health cen-
ter, community mental health center, home
health agency, or any other entity or pro-
vider that is determined by the State and ap-
proved by the Secretary to be qualified to be
a health home for children with medically
complex conditions on the basis of docu-
mentation evidencing that the entity has the
systems, expertise, and infrastructure in
place to provide health home services. Such
term may include providers who are em-
ployed by, or affiliated with, a children’s
hospital.
‘‘(6) TEAM OF HEALTH CARE PROFES-
SIONALS.—The term ‘team of health care pro-
fessionals’ means a team of health care pro-
fessionals (as described in the State plan
amendment under this section) that may—
‘‘(A) include—
‘‘(i) physicians and other professionals,
such as pediatricians or pediatric specialty
or subspecialty providers, nurse care coordi-
nators, dietitians, nutritionists, social work-
ers, behavioral health professionals, physical
therapists, occupational therapists, speech
pathologists, nurses, individuals with experi-
ence in medical supportive technologies, or
any professionals determined to be appro-
priate by the State and approved by the Sec-
retary;
‘‘(ii) an entity or individual who is des-
ignated to coordinate such a team; and
‘‘(iii) community health workers, trans-
lators, and other individuals with culturally-
appropriate expertise; and
‘‘(B) be freestanding, virtual, or based at a
children’s hospital, hospital, community
health center, community mental health
center, rural clinic, clinical practice or clin-
ical group practice, academic health center,
or any entity determined to be appropriate
by the State and approved by the Secretary.
‘‘(7) HEALTH TEAM.—The term ‘health
team’ has the meaning given such term for
purposes of section 3502 of Public Law 111–
148.’’.
SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF THE COMMUNITY MENTAL
HEALTH SERVICES DEMONSTRA-
TION PROGRAM.
Section 223(d)(3) of the Protecting Access
to Medicare Act of 2014 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note)
is amended by striking ‘‘for 2-year dem-
onstration programs under this subsection’’
and inserting ‘‘to conduct demonstration
programs under this subsection for 2 years or
through June 30, 2019, whichever is longer’’.
SEC. 5. ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR THE MONEY
FOLLOWS THE PERSON REBAL-
ANCING DEMONSTRATION.
Section 6071(h)(1)(F) of the Deficit Reduc-
tion Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is
amended by striking ‘‘$112,000,000’’ and in-
serting ‘‘132,000,000’’.
SEC. 6. PREVENTING THE MISCLASSIFICATION
OF DRUGS UNDER THE MEDICAID
DRUG REBATE PROGRAM.
(a) APPLICATION OF CIVIL MONEY PENALTY
FOR MISCLASSIFICATION OF COVERED OUT-
PATIENT DRUGS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1927(b)(3) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)(3)) is
amended—
(A) in the paragraph heading, by inserting
‘‘AND DRUG PRODUCT’’ after ‘‘PRICE’’;
(B) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘; and’’ at the
end and inserting a semicolon;
(ii) in clause (iii), by striking the period at
the end and inserting a semicolon;
(iii) in clause (iv), by striking the semi-
colon at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iv) by inserting after clause (iv) the fol-
lowing new clause:
‘‘(v) not later than 30 days after the last
day of each month of a rebate period under
the agreement, such drug product informa-
tion as the Secretary shall require for each
of the manufacturer’s covered outpatient
drugs.’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (C)—
(i) in clause (ii), by inserting ‘‘, including
information related to drug pricing, drug
product information, and data related to
drug pricing or drug product information,’’
after ‘‘provides false information’’;
(ii) by adding at the end the following new
clauses:
‘‘(iii) MISCLASSIFIED DRUG PRODUCT OR
MISREPORTED INFORMATION.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Any manufacturer with
an agreement under this section that know-
ingly (as defined in section 1003.110 of title
42, Code of Federal Regulations (or any suc-
cessor regulation)) misclassifies a covered
outpatient drug, such as by knowingly sub-
mitting incorrect drug product information,
is subject to a civil money penalty for each
covered outpatient drug that is misclassified
in an amount not to exceed 2 times the
amount of the difference between—
‘‘(aa) the total amount of rebates that the
manufacturer paid with respect to the drug
to all States for all rebate periods during
which the drug was misclassified; and
‘‘(bb) the total amount of rebates that the
manufacturer would have been required to
pay, as determined by the Secretary using
drug product information provided by the
manufacturer, with respect to the drug to all
States for all rebate periods during which
the drug was misclassified if the drug had
been correctly classified.
‘‘(II) OTHER PENALTIES AND RECOVERY OF
UNDERPAID REBATES.—The civil money pen-
alties described in subclause (I) are in addi-
tion to other penalties as may be prescribed
by law and any other recovery of the under-
lying underpayment for rebates due under
this section or the terms of the rebate agree-
ment as determined by the Secretary.
‘‘(iv) INCREASING OVERSIGHT AND ENFORCE-
MENT.—Each year the Secretary shall retain,
in addition to any amount retained by the
Secretary to recoup investigation and litiga-
tion costs related to the enforcement of the
civil money penalties under this subpara-
graph and subsection (c)(4)(B)(ii)(III), an
amount equal to 25 percent of the total
amount of civil money penalties collected
under this subparagraph and subsection
(c)(4)(B)(ii)(III) for the year, and such re-
tained amount shall be available to the Sec-
retary, without further appropriation and
until expended, for activities related to the
oversight and enforcement of this section
and agreements under this section, includ-
ing—
‘‘(I) improving drug data reporting sys-
tems;
‘‘(II) evaluating and ensuring manufac-
turer compliance with rebate obligations;
and
‘‘(III) oversight and enforcement related to
ensuring that manufacturers accurately and
fully report drug information, including data
related to drug classification.’’; and
(iii) in subparagraph (D)—
(I) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘, and’’ and
inserting a comma;
(II) in clause (v), by striking the period and
inserting ‘‘, and’’; and
(III) by inserting after clause (v) the fol-
lowing new clause:
‘‘(vi) in the case of categories of drug prod-
uct or classification information that were
not considered confidential by the Secretary
on the day before the date of the enactment
of this clause.’’.
(2) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.006 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2776 March 25, 2019
(A) Section 1903(i)(10) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(i)(10)) is amended—
(i) in subparagraph (C)—
(I) by adjusting the left margin so as to
align with the left margin of subparagraph
(B); and
(II) by striking ‘‘, and’’ and inserting a
semicolon;
(ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘; or’’
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(E) with respect to any amount expended
for a covered outpatient drug for which a
suspension under section 1927(c)(4)(B)(ii)(II)
is in effect; or’’.
(B) Section 1927(b)(3)(C)(ii) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)(3)(C)(ii)) is
amended by striking ‘‘subsections (a) and
(b)’’ and inserting ‘‘subsections (a), (b), (f)(3),
and (f)(4)’’.
(b) RECOVERY OF UNPAID REBATE AMOUNTS
DUE TO MISCLASSIFICATION OF COVERED OUT-
PATIENT DRUGS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1927(c) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–8(c)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(4) RECOVERY OF UNPAID REBATE AMOUNTS
DUE TO MISCLASSIFICATION OF COVERED OUT-
PATIENT DRUGS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that a manufacturer with an agree-
ment under this section paid a lower per-unit
rebate amount to a State for a rebate period
as a result of the misclassification by the
manufacturer of a covered outpatient drug
(without regard to whether the manufac-
turer knowingly made the misclassification
or should have known that the
misclassification would be made) than the
per-unit rebate amount that the manufac-
turer would have paid to the State if the
drug had been correctly classified, the manu-
facturer shall pay to the State an amount
equal to the product of—
‘‘(i) the difference between—
‘‘(I) the per-unit rebate amount paid to the
State for the period; and
‘‘(II) the per-unit rebate amount that the
manufacturer would have paid to the State
for the period, as determined by the Sec-
retary, if the drug had been correctly classi-
fied; and
‘‘(ii) the total units of the drug paid for
under the State plan in the period.
‘‘(B) AUTHORITY TO CORRECT
MISCLASSIFICATIONS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that a manufacturer with an agree-
ment under this section has misclassified a
covered outpatient drug (without regard to
whether the manufacturer knowingly made
the misclassification or should have known
that the misclassification would be made),
the Secretary shall notify the manufacturer
of the misclassification and require the man-
ufacturer to correct the misclassification in
a timely manner.
‘‘(ii) ENFORCEMENT.—If, after receiving no-
tice of a misclassification from the Sec-
retary under clause (i), a manufacturer fails
to correct the misclassification by such time
as the Secretary shall require, until the
manufacturer makes such correction, the
Secretary may do any or all of the following:
‘‘(I) Correct the misclassification, using
drug product information provided by the
manufacturer, on behalf of the manufac-
turer.
‘‘(II) Suspend the misclassified drug and
the drug’s status as a covered outpatient
drug under the manufacturer’s national re-
bate agreement, and exclude the
misclassified drug from Federal financial
participation in accordance with section
1903(i)(10)(E).
‘‘(III) Impose a civil money penalty (which
shall be in addition to any other recovery or
penalty which may be available under this
section or any other provision of law) for
each rebate period during which the drug is
misclassified not to exceed an amount equal
to the product of—
‘‘(aa) the total number of units of each dos-
age form and strength of such misclassified
drug paid for under any State plan during
such a rebate period; and
‘‘(bb) 23.1 percent of the average manufac-
turer price for the dosage form and strength
of such misclassified drug.
‘‘(C) REPORTING AND TRANSPARENCY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall sub-
mit a report to Congress on at least an an-
nual basis that includes information on the
covered outpatient drugs that have been
identified as misclassified, any steps taken
to reclassify such drugs, the actions the Sec-
retary has taken to ensure the payment of
any rebate amounts which were unpaid as a
result of such misclassification, and a disclo-
sure of expenditures from the fund created in
subsection (b)(3)(C)(iv), including an ac-
counting of how such funds have been allo-
cated and spent in accordance with such sub-
section.
‘‘(ii) PUBLIC ACCESS.—The Secretary shall
make the information contained in the re-
port required under clause (i) available to
the public on a timely basis.
‘‘(D) OTHER PENALTIES AND ACTIONS.—Ac-
tions taken and penalties imposed under this
clause shall be in addition to other remedies
available to the Secretary including termi-
nating the manufacturer’s rebate agreement
for noncompliance with the terms of such
agreement and shall not exempt a manufac-
turer from, or preclude the Secretary from
pursuing, any civil money penalty under this
title or title XI, or any other penalty or ac-
tion as may be prescribed by law.’’.
(2) OFFSET OF RECOVERED AMOUNTS AGAINST
MEDICAL ASSISTANCE.—Section 1927(b)(1)(B) of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–
8(b)(1)(B)) is amended by inserting ‘‘, includ-
ing amounts received by a State under sub-
section (c)(4),’’ after ‘‘in any quarter’’.
(c) CLARIFYING DEFINITIONS.—Section
1927(k) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1396r–8(k)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘para-
graph (5)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (4)’’; and
(2) in paragraph (7)(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘an original new drug ap-
plication’’ and inserting ‘‘a new drug appli-
cation’’ each place it appears;
(B) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘(not includ-
ing any drug described in paragraph (5))’’ and
inserting ‘‘, including a drug product ap-
proved for marketing as a non-prescription
drug that is regarded as a covered outpatient
drug under paragraph (4),’’;
(C) in clause (ii)—
(i) by striking ‘‘was originally marketed’’
and inserting ‘‘is marketed’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, unless the Secretary de-
termines that a narrow exception applies (as
described in section 447.502 of title 42, Code of
Federal Regulations (or any successor regu-
lation))’’ before the period; and
(D) in clause (iv)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, including a drug product
approved for marketing as a non-prescription
drug that is regarded as a covered outpatient
drug under paragraph (4),’’ after ‘‘covered
outpatient drug’’;
(ii) by inserting ‘‘unless the Secretary de-
termines that a narrow exception applies (as
described in section 447.502 of title 42, Code of
Federal Regulations (or any successor regu-
lation))’’ after ‘‘under the new drug applica-
tion’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following new
sentence: ‘‘Such term also includes a covered
outpatient drug that is a biological product
licensed, produced, or distributed under a
biologics license application approved by the
Food and Drug Administration.’’.
(d) EXCLUSION OF MANUFACTURERS FOR
KNOWING MISCLASSIFICATION OF COVERED
OUTPATIENT DRUGS.—Section 1128(b) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a–7(b)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(17) KNOWINGLY MISCLASSIFYING COVERED
OUTPATIENT DRUGS.—Any manufacturer or of-
ficer, director, agent, or managing employee
of such manufacturer that knowingly
misclassifies a covered outpatient drug
under an agreement under section 1927,
knowingly fails to correct such
misclassification, or knowingly provides
false information related to drug pricing,
drug product information, or data related to
drug pricing or drug product information.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect on the
date of the enactment of this Act, and shall
apply to covered outpatient drugs supplied
by manufacturers under agreements under
section 1927 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8) on or after such date.
SEC. 7. EXTENSION OF THIRD-PARTY LIABILITY
PERIOD FOR CHILD SUPPORT SERV-
ICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 202(a)(2) of the
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (Public Law
113–67) is amended by striking ‘‘90 days’’ and
inserting ‘‘100 days’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by this section shall take effect on the
date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 8. DENIAL OF FFP FOR CERTAIN EXPENDI-
TURES RELATING TO VACUUM EREC-
TION SYSTEMS AND PENILE PROS-
THETIC IMPLANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1903(i) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(i)) is
amended by inserting after paragraph (11)
the following:
‘‘(12) with respect to any amounts ex-
pended for—
‘‘(A) a vacuum erection system that is not
medically necessary; or
‘‘(B) the insertion, repair, or removal and
replacement of a penile prosthetic implant
(unless such insertion, repair, or removal
and replacement is medically necessary);
or’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall apply with re-
spect to items and services furnished on or
after January 1, 2020.
SEC. 9. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. RUIZ) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on H.R. 1839.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.006 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2777
March 25, 2019
There was no objection.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am humbled to rise in
support of H.R. 1839, the Medicaid Serv-
ices Investment and Accountability
Act, a bill that will strengthen our
healthcare system by putting patients
first.
I am an emergency physician, and as
a doctor I have treated patients who,
because they couldn’t afford the care
they needed, slipped through the
cracks, worsening their quality of life,
harming themselves and their families,
and sometimes ending up in the emer-
gency department for lifesaving care.
This bill makes five essential reforms
to Medicaid that put patients first,
helping children and individuals with
mental health issues access the care
that they need.
The bill’s first reform reflects the
hard work and tireless efforts of my
friend, Representative DINGELL, who
has led the fight to extend Medicaid
spousal impoverishment protections.
Thanks to Representative DINGELL’s
advocacy, patients will be able to af-
ford treatment and services without
bankrupting their spouses.
Without this important protection,
families would face a terrible choice
between either unnecessary institu-
tionalization or impoverishing them-
selves to ensure that their loved one
receives the care that they need.
I would also like to thank Congress-
man UPTON for championing this im-
portant policy.
Second, my bill would provide addi-
tional funds to the successful Money
Follows the Person demonstration.
This funding will help more individuals
transition from institutions to the
communities they call home. I wanted
to thank Representatives DINGELL and
GUTHRIE for their advocacy on behalf of
the patients and families who continue
to benefit from this successful pro-
gram.
Third, this bill includes the Advanc-
ing Care for Exceptional Kids Act, bi-
partisan legislation that gives States
the flexibility to coordinate the most
effective care for children with medi-
cally complex needs. The ACE Kids Act
would not be possible without the sus-
tained advocacy and hard work of Con-
gresswoman CASTOR.
Representative CASTOR is an incred-
ible advocate for some of our most vul-
nerable children and their families and
has spent years championing this bill. I
also want to thank my friend, Rep-
resentative BILIRAKIS, for continuing
to fight to ensure that our sickest kids
have access to health homes.
Fourth, this bill contains important
program integrity improvements to
Medicaid, fixes that will save money
and make Medicaid run more effi-
ciently and effectively without sacri-
ficing quality of care for patients.
That includes legislation championed
by Representatives SCHRADER and
WELCH to crack down on drug compa-
nies cheating the Medicaid program by
not paying proper rebates on their
drugs. The bill also gives the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services
the tools it needs to hold ill-inten-
tioned pharmaceutical companies ac-
countable, while ensuring that patients
who depend on these drugs continue to
have access to them.
Fifth, and finally, this bill extends
funding for the Excellence in Mental
Health Act, so that people who are
struggling with mental health and sub-
stance use disorders can continue re-
ceiving the treatment they need. The
extension will help Congress find a
longer-term solution so that this pro-
gram can continue providing care to
the people who need it.
I would like to thank Representative
MATSUI for her continued hard work to
support this demonstration. In brief,
this bipartisan bill strengthens Med-
icaid by putting patients first. It was
the approach I took as a doctor in the
emergency department, and one I am
continuing to take in Congress.
I know this bill will make our
healthcare system stronger and more
equitable, and I am proud to lead this
critical effort.
I urge my colleagues to support the
passage of H.R. 1839, the Medicaid Serv-
ices Investment and Accountability
Act of 2019, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to speak today
in support of H.R. 1839, the Medicaid
Services Investment and Account-
ability Act of 2019.
This is a bipartisan Medicaid extend-
ers package that moves forward House
priorities with responsible offsets. In
fact, this package actually saves the
Federal Government $1 million.
H.R. 1839 includes a new program to
improve access to healthcare from
medically complex children and reau-
thorizes important and effective pro-
grams that benefit Americans each and
every day.
b 1730
Money Follows the Person is an im-
portant program for the State of
Texas. This Medicaid demonstration,
which was established in 2005, has en-
abled eligible individuals in States
across our Nation to receive long-term
care services in their homes or other
community settings, rather than an in-
stitution such as a nursing home.
While I am disappointed that H.R.
1839 includes only $20 million to extend
this critical program through Sep-
tember instead of through the end of
calendar year 2019, I am pleased that
the funding for Money Follows the Per-
son was ultimately included in this
package.
This bill also includes an extension
through September of the protection
for Medicaid recipients of home and
community-based services against
spousal impoverishment program. This
program specifically protects married
individuals requiring Medicaid-covered
and long-term services and supports to
ensure that they do not have to deplete
their financial resources or bankrupt
themselves in order to become or re-
main Medicaid-eligible to receive such
services. Our seniors are among our
most vulnerable citizens, and it is pro-
grams such as this that will help pro-
tect them from financial ruin.
According to the National Institute
of Mental Health, nearly one in five
United States adults lives with a men-
tal illness. Programs established to
help individuals who are struggling
with mental health issues, including
the Excellence in Mental Health pro-
gram, enable States to implement com-
munity behavioral health centers to
address the needs of their populations.
H.R. 1839 extends the Excellence in
Mental Health program funding for Or-
egon and Oklahoma so that they will
be on the same financial cycle as other
States that are participating in the
program.
The ACE Kids Act, which will im-
prove care for children with complex
medical needs, is also included in this
package. The goal of this legislation is
to improve comprehensive care for
medically complex children through a
State option to create a Medicaid
health home specific to children.
Health homes have proven effective in
improving care coordination in the
adult Medicaid population and hold
promise for complex pediatric patients.
However, I want to clarify that this
legislation is not intended to limit
families or their physicians from se-
lecting the provider of choice for med-
ical services. There is nothing in this
legislation that restricts the child’s
family or their physician from deciding
who is best qualified as a Medicare pro-
vider. The Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services has provided assur-
ances that current freedom of choice
rules will apply to new care coordina-
tion activity.
As a physician, I know that many
children with chronic illnesses have a
strong relationship with their physi-
cian and with other providers. I want
to make certain that this new law will
help families coordinate their care
without affecting the relationship that
families have with their current doctor
or other medical care provider or other
providers in their communities from
whom they may wish to receive care.
This package contains must-pass pro-
visions that will improve access for
Medicaid beneficiaries, which is a laud-
able and important goal. Not only are
these provisions imperative, but they
are responsibly offset. In fact, this
package saves money.
I would particularly like to thank
the Energy and Commerce Committee
staff, in particular J.P. Paluskiewicz
and Caleb Graff, who have spent a sig-
nificant amount of their lives negoti-
ating this package to get it to the
floor.
I support this legislation, and I urge
other Members to continue to support
this and get the other body to take it
up and pass it as well.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.017 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2778 March 25, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 min-
utes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. MATSUI).
Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of the Medicaid Services In-
vestment and Accountability Act of
2019 and the important provisions with-
in this legislation to address mental
health and addiction.
Every one of us knows someone who
has struggled, is struggling, or will
struggle with mental health issues.
Whether it is a friend, a neighbor, or a
family member, mental illness impacts
all of us in some way.
Several years ago, we took a huge
step forward to expand access to men-
tal health services in communities
across the Nation. The Excellence in
Mental Health Act of 2014 was the cul-
mination of years of hard work. At the
same time, it was the largest Federal
investment toward improving commu-
nity-based mental healthcare.
That legislation allowed States to es-
tablish certified community behavioral
health centers to ensure everyone who
needs mental health services can re-
ceive them. These clinics have ex-
panded mental health and substance
use treatments dramatically, increas-
ing access to 24-hour care, and they
have been extremely successful in
showing us how we can achieve real re-
sults in our communities.
Patients can receive medication-as-
sisted treatment at almost every clin-
ic. For many patients and providers,
this is the first time that such services
have been available in their commu-
nities, which are very often in medi-
cally underserved areas. Over half of
these clinics now offer same-day access
to care, which is so critical to those
suffering from an acute mental health
crisis.
I recently heard from a clinic in Or-
egon that will lose funding at the end
of this week if Congress doesn’t act
now. This clinic has doubled the
amount of time their doctors are able
to spend with patients, has been able to
hire more staff, and goes to meet pa-
tients in the community to better
serve the unique needs of this popu-
lation. We cannot afford to let this
progress expire.
For far too long, those with mental
illness have been left in the shadows,
and mental health prevention and
treatment have been left out of our
health systems.
The mental health crisis in this
country is very personal to me, and I
have been fighting for patients and
their loved ones for many years. I be-
lieve there is a lot we can do better to
stop or slow down the hurt and pain pa-
tients and families feel when mental
health is left unaddressed.
The bill before us today will extend
this critical program in two States, Or-
egon and Oklahoma, until June and is
a first step toward funding and expand-
ing the program later this year.
There is a lot more we must do, and
I look forward to continuing to work
with my colleague, Representative
MARKWAYNE MULLIN, to preserve this
vital program.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Oregon (Mr. WALDEN),
who is the Republican leader of the En-
ergy and Commerce Committee.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, to my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle,
this is really important legislation we
are working on today. H.R. 1839, the
Medicaid Services Investment and Ac-
countability Act of 2019, includes
short-term extensions of several key
Medicaid programs that have pre-
viously passed the House on a bipar-
tisan basis.
I know our staffs on both sides of the
aisle put a lot of time and effort into
this, and I thank them all. I especially
want to draw attention to Caleb Graff,
who brought his own audience with
him today in the gallery, his parents
and brother. He has worked very hard
on this, and we appreciate it.
I thank my chair and colleague,
FRANK PALLONE of the Energy and
Commerce Committee, for the partner-
ship on this extenders package. Person-
ally, I know a lot of us would have
liked to have had these extended pro-
grams go out further to give bene-
ficiaries and providers more certainty
and more stability, and we will con-
tinue to put forth offers in good faith
to work across the aisle to fund these
critical parts of America’s safety net.
However, we are here today up
against a deadline, and I am pleased we
were able to get at least through June
and September, respectively, with
these programs.
I am particularly pleased to see this
package includes a short-term exten-
sion of the Excellence in Mental Health
demonstration for my home State of
Oregon. Both Oregon and Oklahoma
were set to run out of funding at the
end of this month, so this money will
at least line them up with the other
participating States whose funding ex-
pires at the end of June.
These eight State demonstration
projects have shown promise as a way
for community providers to expand ac-
cess to treatment for mental and be-
havioral health, including addiction.
As we continue our bipartisan work on
the opioid crisis, which took more than
70,000 American lives in 2017 alone, Mr.
Speaker, our behavioral health centers
have the potential to provide real help.
I have been encouraged to hear from
providers in rural parts of my district,
like Wallowa and Klamath Falls, about
their success implementing this very
program. I look forward to working on
a longer term extension in the coming
months.
The other Medicaid policies included
in this bill are also very important.
The Money Follows the Person pro-
gram is a demonstration program that
helps transition individuals with
chronic conditions and disabilities
from institutions back into their local
communities. That is where they can
get the best care.
The so-called spousal impoverish-
ment program protects seniors against
the high costs of home and community-
based services.
Finally, we are, once again, passing
the ACE Kids Act here in the House,
which was championed by our former
colleague and chairman of the com-
mittee, Representative Joe Barton of
Texas. It would improve the delivery of
care for children with really complex
medical conditions.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all our colleagues
on both sides of the aisle to support
this bipartisan package of healthcare
bills.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to avoid referencing
occupants of the gallery.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 min-
utes to the gentlewoman from Florida
(Ms. CASTOR).
Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Mr. Speaker,
I thank my colleague and friend, Dr.
RUIZ, for yielding the time.
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of families of
children with complex medical needs—
and there are many families like this
all across America—I rise to urge ap-
proval of H.R. 1839, which includes a
bill I have been working on for a num-
ber of years with my colleagues, in-
cluding former Representative Joe Bar-
ton. It is called the ACE Kids Act.
We drafted the Advancing Care for
Exceptional Kids Act a few years ago
with a simple but important goal of
putting children and their families
first. The bill authorizes the creation
of cost-saving and time-saving health
homes where specialized care is coordi-
nated in a high-quality setting.
Mr. Speaker, the children with com-
plex medical conditions and their fami-
lies are heroic, like Caroline West in
my hometown of Tampa. She has a rare
genetic condition, cerebral palsy, and a
seizure disorder. She can’t walk, and it
is very difficult for her to speak, but
she attends school part time and en-
joys the life of a typical teenager, in
many respects.
Lucy Ferlita is the only living person
in the United States with early onset
myopathy with areflexia, respiratory
distress, and dysphagia. Very little is
known about this disease, but we know
that it is very difficult for her to eat.
She has to have a feeding tube, a venti-
lator to breathe, and nursing care 24
hours a day.
Jaden Velasquez has a congenital
heart defect.
Lakota Lockhart has a central nerv-
ous system disorder that causes him to
not be able to breathe while he sleeps.
I met all of these kids back home in
Tampa at St. Joseph’s Children’s Hos-
pital. St. Joe’s has a world-renown
Chronic-Complex Clinic that was start-
ed 16 years ago by a compassionate pe-
diatrician, Dr. Daniel Plasencia. This
ACE Kids Act is modeled upon their
work and the other good work being
done at children’s hospitals across this
country.
The bill provides an incentive for
States to establish health homes to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.018 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2779
March 25, 2019
better coordinate care for kids with
medical complexities. It also directs
HHS to provide guidance to States on
best practices.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
adopt this bill with the ACE Kids Act
included.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter from a whole host of organiza-
tions thanking us for our leadership
and for introducing this bipartisan leg-
islation to improve care for children
with complex medical conditions.
MARCH 25, 2019.
Hon. CHUCK GRASSLEY,
Washington, DC.
Hon. MICHAEL BENNET,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KATHY CASTOR,
Washington, DC.
Hon. GUS BILIRAKIS,
Washington, DC.
Hon. ANNA ESHOO,
Washington, DC.
Hon. JAIME HERRERA BEUTLER,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENS. GRASSLEY AND BENNET, AND
REPS. CASTOR, BILIRAKIS, ESHOO, AND HER-
RERA BEUTLER: As national organizations
committed to children’s health, we write in
strong support of the ‘‘Advancing Care for
Exceptional Kids Act of 2019’’ (ACE Kids Act,
S. 317/H.R. 1226), which has been incorporated
into the Medicaid Services Investment and
Accountability Act of 2019 (H.R. 1839). We
thank you for your leadership in introducing
this bipartisan legislation to improve care
for children with complex medical conditions
in the Medicaid program.
Children with complex medical conditions
have chronic life-limiting illnesses and dis-
abilities, and often see six or more special-
ists and a dozen or more physicians. Under
the current Medicaid system, parents of chil-
dren with multiple, life-threatening disabil-
ities struggle to coordinate the complex care
of their kids, which often requires travelling
to out-of-state providers. The ACE Kids Act
works to create a patient-centered, pedi-
atric-focused delivery system for this unique
population of children. It is an important
step in fixing the current fragmented system
for children with complex medical condi-
tions, ensuring ready access to care and re-
ducing the burden on their families.
Under the ACE Kids Act, specially-de-
signed health homes created for children
with complex medical conditions will employ
national quality standards and coordinate
care—both essential to improving overall
quality of care. These health homes will in-
clude the full range of acute, post-acute and
primary care providers, and will focus on
outpatient care to ensure children get the
care that they need in the most appropriate
setting closest to home while reducing un-
necessary hospitalizations and emergency
room visits. The ACE Kids Act—which is vol-
untary for states, families and providers—
will also help families access the array of
outpatient and community services and sup-
ports needed by these children.
Providing children with complex medical
conditions enrolled in Medicaid the best pos-
sible care is a national challenge, and the
ACE Kids Act will bring us closer to ensur-
ing these vulnerable children receive the
care they need. We are proud to support the
ACE Kids Act, and we look forward to work-
ing with you to advance this critical legisla-
tion this year.
Sincerely,
American Academy of Pediatrics; Amer-
ican Association for Psychoanalysis in Clin-
ical Social Work; American Association of
Child and Adolescent Psychiatry; The Amer-
ican Board of Pediatrics; American College
of Cardiology; American College of Surgeons;
American Heart Association; American
Physical Therapy Association; American
Psychological Association; American Soci-
ety of Echocardiography; American Thoracic
Society; America’s Essential Hospitals; As-
sociation of American Medical Colleges; As-
sociation of Medical School Pediatric De-
partment Chairs; Autism Society of Amer-
ica; Autism Speaks.
Children’s Cause for Cancer Advocacy;
Children’s Hospital Association; ChildServe;
Epilepsy Foundation; Family Voices; March
of Dimes; Maxim Healthcare Services; Mend-
ed Little Hearts; Moms Rising; National As-
sociation for Children’s Behavioral Health;
National Association of Pediatric Nurse
Practitioners; National Board for Certified
Counselors; National Down Syndrome Soci-
ety; Pediatric Congenital Heart Association;
Tricare for Kids Coalition; Vizient.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. UPTON), who is the former
chairman of the Energy and Commerce
Committee and the author of the Cures
for the 21st Century bill.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of this bipartisan legis-
lation.
I just want to remark briefly to my
colleague from Florida (Ms. CASTOR)
that the ACE Kids bill was a very im-
portant bill that we worked on actu-
ally for three Congresses. Joe Barton
and the gentlewoman did a marvelous
job. We didn’t quite get it done. We
passed it in this House with more than
400 votes in the last Congress. At the
end, the Senate just didn’t take it up.
It is very important that it is in-
cluded as part of this bipartisan pack-
age, which we hope is early enough
that we can get the Senate to act and
pass it, because it really does impact
families that are in much need.
I also am happy that we are moving
this comprehensive bill today because
it does contain a variety of important
extensions. All of them had hearings
and a lot of bipartisan support from
the very first. This includes protec-
tions against spousal impoverishment
for those seniors who have a spouse
who is receiving home-based long-term
care under Medicaid.
Back in 2010, we temporarily man-
dated these protections for home care,
but that mandate was set to expire at
the end of this very week, so it has to
be extended.
Last year, my good friend and col-
league, Mrs. DINGELL, and I introduced
a bill to make the spousal impoverish-
ment protections permanent, and we
worked hard to get that done and
passed here in this House. But at the
end, even though we worked tirelessly
on this, we got only a temporary exten-
sion. That is why it expires the end of
this week.
This bill doesn’t permanently extend
it like we had hoped last year, but it
does give a reprieve by extending the
protection until the end of this year,
so, in essence, a 9-month extension. It
is my hope that we can use the time to
actually pass a permanent extension.
I particularly commend the work of
my colleague, Mrs. DINGELL from the
great State of Michigan, for her pas-
sion on this, to make sure that we can
get it done. I applaud the Speaker for
getting it scheduled on the House floor
early so that we can get it done, hope-
fully, this week, and the Senate can
concur. Then let’s use the time to real-
ly make it permanent, to help these
families that otherwise will have funds
taken out, as this really does rely on
Medicaid, to a large degree.
b 1745
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 min-
utes to the gentlewoman from Michi-
gan (Mrs. DINGELL).
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague from California for his
leadership on this issue and for yield-
ing me time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in sup-
port of H.R. 1839, the Medicaid Services
Investment and Accountability Act.
This bill includes two provisions that
are very important to seniors and the
disabled. It makes improvements, but,
as you have heard my other colleagues
talk about, not enough and not for long
enough.
First of all, it has a provision that I
worked on with my colleague, Mr.
UPTON, that extends the spousal impov-
erishment protections for seniors in
Medicaid through the end of the fiscal
year. These critical protections ensure
that individuals are not forced to spend
down almost all of their resources and
potentially go bankrupt to get the care
that they need. No American should be
forced into poverty just to receive ade-
quate healthcare.
In addition, this bill contains a provi-
sion that I worked on with my col-
league, Mr. GUTHRIE, to extend the
highly successful Money Follows the
Person program, again, just through
the end of the fiscal year. This program
provides grants to States to help indi-
viduals voluntarily transition from an
institutional setting to a community
care setting, their own home. All
Americans, regardless of income, de-
serve to receive long-term care in a
setting that they prefer.
While I am pleased that these pro-
grams will be extended through the end
of September and not allowed to
lapse—and that is critical—this is only
a partial victory. Both the Money Fol-
lows the Person program and spousal
impoverishment protections need to be
extended for the long term, not a few
months at a time. We keep doing that.
It was 3 months ago that we just ex-
tended it for 3 months.
Seniors and individuals with disabil-
ities need to have security. They need
to know and have peace of mind that
these important provisions are going to
be there for the long term. And States
need stability and certainty in order to
fully implement these efforts.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ken-
tucky (Mr. GUTHRIE), a valuable mem-
ber of the Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee and the Republican leader of
the Oversight and Investigations Sub-
committee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.019 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2780 March 25, 2019
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 1839, which ex-
tends the important Medicaid Money
Follows the Person program until Sep-
tember.
The Medicaid Money Follows the
Person program allows certain Med-
icaid beneficiaries, such as the elderly
or individuals with disabilities, to
transition from a healthcare facility to
receiving care in their own homes. It
does not force patients to leave a facil-
ity if they don’t want to.
Since the Money Follows the Person
program was created over a decade ago,
it has successfully helped over 88,000
individuals receive care in their own
homes.
I have worked with Congresswoman
DEBBIE DINGELL on the bipartisan EM-
POWER Care Act, which extends the
Medicaid Money Follows the Person
program for 5 years.
I urge my colleagues to support H.R.
1839 to extend the program until Sep-
tember, and I will continue to work
with Congresswoman DINGELL to get
the EMPOWER Act across the finish
line.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I am ready to
close.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bipartisan bill, H.R. 1839. I
really thank all the Members who put
their heart and soul into their pieces of
legislation. I thank the staff of the En-
ergy and Commerce Committee, both
Democratic and Republican, who have
come together to work to plug a hole,
to fill in the cracks, and to make sure
that services continue, that value is
given, and that healthcare puts our pa-
tients first, our kids first, so that we
can give them the appropriate care
that they deserve, no matter where
they are from or whether or not they
can afford it.
This is why I am so humbled to carry
the water on this bill. On behalf of my-
self, my staff, and my office, I thank
everybody involved in this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support for this
bipartisan bill, H.R. 1839, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, this is
an important bill, and I urge all Mem-
bers to support it.
Once again, I want to single out and
thank J.P. Paluskiewicz and Caleb
Graff for really moving heaven and
earth to get this to the floor so that
these valuable programs do not lapse.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to voice my support for H.R. 1839, the
Medicaid Services Investment and Account-
ability Act of 2019.
This bill would extend programs that help
seniors and people with disabilities live in the
community, rather than institutions. It would
extend the authorization of the Excellence in
Mental Health demonstration so that none of
the participating states run out of critical funds.
It would authorize additional program integrity
measures in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Pro-
gram and in other areas of the Medicaid pro-
gram. Finally, it would provide states with the
option to provide coordinated care for children
with medically complex conditions.
As representatives of Americans from all
corners of our country, we have a responsi-
bility to protect and enhance Medicaid, a vital
safety net program that finances the delivery
of care to 69 million people in this country.
Without this program, the quality and access
of healthcare for our most vulnerable popu-
lations will be at risk. We must ensure that fu-
ture generations are able to receive the nec-
essary health benefits to live full and pros-
perous lives.
On behalf of the over four and a half million
Medicaid beneficiaries in my home state of
Texas, I am proud to support the Medicaid
Services Investment and Accountability Act of
2019.
I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
RUIZ) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 1839, as amend-
ed.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I object
to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 52 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. LOWENTHAL) at 6 o’clock
and 30 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on motions to
suspend the rules previously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
H.R. 1616, by the yeas and nays; and
H.R. 1839, de novo.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, any remaining
electronic vote will be conducted as a
5-minute vote.
f
EUROPEAN ENERGY SECURITY
AND DIVERSIFICATION ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1616) to prioritize the efforts
of and enhance coordination among
United States agencies to encourage
countries in Central and Eastern Eu-
rope to diversify their energy sources
and supply routes, increase Europe’s
energy security, and help the United
States reach its global energy security
goals, and for other purposes, as
amended, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SIRES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 391, nays 24,
not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 126]
YEAS—391
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.021 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2781
March 25, 2019
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—24
Allen
Amash
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Burchett
Cline
Cloud
Duncan
Ferguson
Gaetz
Gosar
Griffith
Harris
Jordan
Loudermilk
Massie
McClintock
Meadows
Palmer
Perry
Rice (SC)
Roy
Steube
NOT VOTING—16
Abraham
Bilirakis
Davis, Danny K.
Dunn
Finkenauer
Grijalva
Johnson (LA)
Kennedy
Mullin
Omar
Porter
Rush
Sarbanes
Speier
Velázquez
Wilson (SC)
b 1859
Messrs. CLINE, BUCK, FERGUSON,
MEADOWS, DUNCAN, and BURCHETT
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. OLSON, WRIGHT, and YOHO
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to prioritize the ef-
forts of and enhance coordination
among United States agencies to en-
courage countries in Europe and Eur-
asia to diversify their energy sources
and supply routes, increase energy se-
curity in the region, and help the
United States reach its global energy
security goals, and for other pur-
poses.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Ms. FINKENAUER. Mr. Speaker, as a result
of a cancelled flight and circumstances out of
my control, I was unable to cast a vote on
March 25, 2019 on a bill under suspension of
the rules. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 1616.
f
MEDICAID SERVICES INVESTMENT
AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on sus-
pending the rules and passing the bill
(H.R. 1839) to amend title XIX to ex-
tend protection for Medicaid recipients
of home and community-based services
against spousal impoverishment, estab-
lish a State Medicaid option to provide
coordinated care to children with com-
plex medical conditions through health
homes, prevent the misclassification of
drugs for purposes of the Medicaid drug
rebate program, and for other purposes,
as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
RUIZ) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 7, PAYCHECK FAIRNESS
ACT, AND PROVIDING FOR CON-
SIDERATION OF H. RES. 124, OP-
POSING BAN ON TRANSGENDER
MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES
Mrs. TORRES of California, from the
Committee on Rules, submitted a priv-
ileged report (Rept. No. 116–19) on the
resolution (H. Res. 252) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 7) to
amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 to provide more effective remedies
to victims of discrimination in the
payment of wages on the basis of sex,
and for other purposes, and providing
for consideration of the resolution (H.
Res. 124) expressing opposition to ban-
ning service in the Armed Forces by
openly transgender individuals.
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that the Committee on
the Judiciary be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 962, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois). Under guidelines
consistently issued by successive
Speakers, as recorded in section 956 of
the House Rules and Manual, the Chair
is constrained not to entertain the re-
quest unless it has been cleared by the
bipartisan floor and committee leader-
ships.
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, if this
unanimous consent request cannot be
entertained, I urge the Speaker and the
Majority Leader to immediately sched-
ule the Born-Alive bill so we can stand
up and protect the sanctity of human
life, and I would ask all of us to join in
that request.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on additional motions to suspend
the rules on which a recorded vote or
the yeas and nays are ordered, or votes
objected to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
RUSSIAN-VENEZUELAN THREAT
MITIGATION ACT
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1477) to require a threat as-
sessment and strategy to counter Rus-
sian influence in Venezuela, an assess-
ment of foreign acquisition of CITGO
assets in the United States, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1477
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Russian-
Venezuelan Threat Mitigation Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The Russian Federation’s increased
presence in the Western Hemisphere is of
concern to the United States and our allies
in the region.
(2) In December 2018, the Russian Federa-
tion sent two Tu–160 nuclear-capable bomb-
ers to Venezuela for joint exercises with the
Venezuelan military. The Tu–160 can carry
conventional or nuclear-tipped cruise mis-
siles with an estimated maximum range of
around 3,000 miles.
(3) Russian and Venezuelan forces took
part in a joint 10-hour exercise across the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.007 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2782 March 25, 2019
Caribbean in December 2018 with the Tu–160
nuclear-capable bombers.
(4) Nicolas Maduro and his regime have
turned to the Russian Federation, one of its
strongest political allies, for financial sup-
port during its current economic crisis and
to counter international support for Juan
Guaido.
(5) In January 2018, Russia sent contractors
linked to the Wagner Group to provide secu-
rity for Nicolas Maduro.
(6) Nicolas Maduro secured loans from the
Russian Federation to be repaid through fu-
ture oil exports, but fell behind on those pay-
ments in 2017. News reports in December 2018
suggest that Russian State oil company
Rosneft has lent Venezuelan state oil com-
pany Petroleos de Venezuela (PdVSA) $6.5
billion partly as prepayment for crude oil,
$3.1 billion of which remained outstanding as
of the end of September 2018.
(7) In 2016, PdVSA secured a $1.5 billion
loan from Rosneft, and PdVSA used 49.9 per-
cent of its shares in United States-based and
Venezuelan-owned company CITGO as collat-
eral. A Venezuelan default could lead to po-
tential Russian ownership of United States
energy infrastructure.
(8) At the conclusion of a 3-day visit to
Moscow in December 2018, Maduro an-
nounced $6 billion worth of Russian invest-
ment pledges focused on the oil and mining
sectors as well as the export of 600,000 tons of
Russian wheat to Venezuela to cover its 2019
needs.
SEC. 3. THREAT ASSESSMENT AND STRATEGY TO
COUNTER RUSSIAN INFLUENCE IN
VENEZUELA.
(a) THREAT ASSESSMENT.—Not later than
120 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit
to the appropriate congressional committees
an assessment on Russian-Venezuelan secu-
rity cooperation and the potential threat
such cooperation poses to the United States
and countries in the Western Hemisphere.
(b) STRATEGY.—Not later than 30 days after
the submission of the threat assessment re-
quired under subsection (a), the Secretary of
State shall submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees a strategy to counter
threats identified in such assessment from
Russian-Venezuelan cooperation.
(c) FORM.—The threat assessment required
under subsection (a) shall be submitted in
unclassified form but may include a classi-
fied annex.
(d) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives and the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
SEC. 4. ASSESSMENT OF FOREIGN ACQUISITION
OF CITGO ASSETS IN THE UNITED
STATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall transmit to the appro-
priate congressional committees an assess-
ment of the national security risks posed by
potential Russian acquisition of CITGO’s
United States energy infrastructure hold-
ings.
(b) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the Committee on Foreign Affairs,
the Committee on Appropriations, and the
Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Ap-
propriations, and the Committee on Banking
of the Senate and the Committee on Finan-
cial Services of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Banking of the Sen-
ate.
SEC. 5. ALIENS INELIGIBLE FOR VISAS, ADMIS-
SION, OR PAROLE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—An alien who the Sec-
retary of State or the Secretary of Homeland
Security (or a designee of one of such Secre-
taries) knows, or has reason to believe, is an
alien who is acting or has acted on behalf of
the Russian Government in direct support of
the Venezuelan security forces is—
(1) inadmissible to the United States;
(2) ineligible to receive a visa or other doc-
umentation to enter the United States; and
(3) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or
paroled into the United States or to receive
any other benefit under the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
(b) CURRENT VISAS REVOKED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The issuing consular offi-
cer, the Secretary of State, or the Secretary
of Homeland Security (or a designee of one of
such Secretaries) shall, in accordance with
section 221(i) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)), revoke any visa or
other entry documentation issued to an alien
described in subsection (a) regardless of
when the visa or other entry documentation
is issued.
(2) EFFECT OF REVOCATION.—A revocation
under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) take effect immediately; and
(B) automatically cancel any other valid
visa or entry documentation that is in the
alien’s possession.
(c) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH UNITED NA-
TIONS HEADQUARTERS AGREEMENT OR FOR NA-
TIONAL SECURITY REASONS.—
(1) INTERNATIONAL OBLIGATIONS.—This sec-
tion shall not apply to an alien if admitting
the alien into the United States is necessary
to permit the United States to comply
with—
(A) the Agreement regarding the Head-
quarters of the United Nations, signed at
Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into
force November 21, 1947, between the United
Nations and the United States; or
(B) other applicable international obliga-
tions of the United States.
(2) NATIONAL SECURITY.—The President
may waive the application of this section to
an alien if the President—
(A) determines that such a waiver is in the
national interest of the United States; and
(B) transmits to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Foreign Relations a notice
of and justification for such waiver.
(d) TERMINATION.—This section shall termi-
nate on the earlier of—
(1) the date that is one year after the date
of the enactment of this Act; or
(2) the date on which the President cer-
tifies to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives and the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
that the Government of Venezuela has re-
turned to a democratic form of government
with respect for the essential elements of
representative democracy as set forth in Ar-
ticle 3 of the Inter-American Democratic
Charter.
(e) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘Venezuelan security forces’’ includes
the following:
(1) The Bolivarian National Armed Forces,
including the Bolivarian National Guard.
(2) The Bolivarian National Intelligence
Service.
(3) The Bolivarian National Police.
(4) The Bureau for Scientific, Criminal and
Forensic Investigations of the Ministry of
Interior, Justice, and Peace.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. MALINOWSKI) and the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. ROONEY)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
ask that all Members have 5 legislative
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
materials on H.R. 1477, the Russian-
Venezuelan Threat Mitigation Act, as
amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1477.
I thank Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ for
authoring this bipartisan bill, and I am
proud to bring it to the floor. I appre-
ciate the Congresswoman’s tireless
leadership on Venezuela day in and day
out, particularly at such a difficult mo-
ment for that country.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ has the
largest Venezuelan American constitu-
ency in the country and works nonstop
on behalf of her constituents in sup-
porting the Venezuelan people.
Russia’s unwavering commitment to
Nicolas Maduro should not come as a
surprise to any of us. This is part of
Putin’s larger aspirations for global
reach and influence and Putin knows
the importance of having a loyal Rus-
sian ally in South America.
In recent years, Russia has increased
its support for the Venezuelan security
forces. Just a few months ago, Russia
sent two nuclear capable bombers to
Venezuela for a training exercise.
Just yesterday, two Russian military
aircraft landed near Caracas reportedly
carrying 100 Russian troops.
This legislation responds to the in-
creasing security relationship between
the Maduro regime and the Kremlin.
Specifically, it requires the State De-
partment to provide a threat assess-
ment of Russian influence in Venezuela
and its impact on the United States
and our allies in the region and a strat-
egy for the United States to counter
this threat. It also requires the Presi-
dent to monitor the risk of any foreign
acquisition of CITGO assets in the
United States.
Finally, it puts into place visa bans
on individuals working on behalf of the
Russian Government in direct support
of the Venezuelan security forces. In
short, this legislation takes a crucial
step in restricting Maduro’s access to
financial, political, and military sup-
port from Vladimir Putin.
Congress must pass this legislation
to continue to squeeze Nicolas Maduro
and his repressive regime.
I urge my colleagues to support this
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, March 14, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing to you
concerning H.R. 1477, Russian-Venezuelan
Threat Mitigation Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.010 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2783
March 25, 2019
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary. I acknowledge that the Committee
will not seek a referral of or formally con-
sider H.R. 1477 and agree that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in H.R. 1477
which fall within your Committee’s Rule X
jurisdiction.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, March 20, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: This is to advise you
that the Committee on the Judiciary has
now had an opportunity to review the provi-
sions in H.R. 1477, the ‘‘Russian-Venezuelan
Threat Mitigation Act of 2019,’’ that fall
within our Rule X jurisdiction. I appreciate
your consulting with us on those provisions.
The Judiciary Committee has no objection
to your including them in the bill for consid-
eration on the House floor, and to expedite
that consideration is willing to waive se-
quential referral, with the understanding
that we do not thereby waive any future ju-
risdictional claim over those provisions or
their subject matters.
In the event a House-Senate conference on
this or similar legislation is convened, the
Judiciary Committee reserves the right to
request an appropriate number of conferees
to address any concerns with these or simi-
lar provisions that may arise in conference.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of the Russian-Venezuelan Threat Miti-
gation Act introduced by our col-
leagues from Florida, Congresswoman
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ and Congressman
DIAZ-BALART. I also want to thank
Congressman MALINOWSKI for his lead-
ership in bringing this to the floor
right now.
I am also deeply concerned about
Russia’s continued support for the So-
cialist and criminal dictatorship of
Nicolas Maduro and the threat that
this relationship poses to the national
security of the United States and the
rest of the countries in the Western
Hemisphere.
Russia has invested over $16 billion
in Venezuela and has provided billions
in military equipment to that mur-
derous regime.
In December of last year Russia sent
two nuclear-capable bombers to con-
duct joint exercises with the Ven-
ezuelan military. In January of this
year, he sent mercenaries to help pro-
tect Maduro—this is Mr. Putin doing
that. Just this last weekend, as Con-
gressman MALINOWSKI referred to, we
saw a report of about 100 additional
Russian troops landing in Venezuela.
Russia continues to finance the re-
gime through billions of dollars in in-
vestments and is directly aiding the
Maduro regime’s efforts to bypass U.S.
sanctions. There is also a great concern
over the potential acquisition of a
U.S.-based oil company, CITGO, which
has refineries in Corpus Christi and
Lake Charles by the Russian oil com-
pany, Rosneft, which has a collateral
position of about half of its equity.
The bill requires that the State De-
partment provide Congress with an as-
sessment of the threat that the Russia-
Venezuela relationship poses to U.S.
national security and a strategy to
combat that threat.
The bill also requires the specific as-
sessment of the threat posed by a po-
tential acquisition of the oil infra-
structure I referred to, CITGO, by their
debtor, Russian state oil company
Rosneft.
Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and
I urge all of our colleagues to join us in
standing against Russia’s continued
support for the Maduro regime and the
threat it poses to U.S. national secu-
rity.
I reserve the balance of my time.
b 1915
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Florida (Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ), the author of this bill.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
New Jersey for yielding and for his
leadership on the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee. His expertise, having been
elected to Congress in November, is
welcomed.
It is really wonderful to be able to
join him on the floor of the House of
Representatives to make sure that we
continue to voice our support for de-
mocracy to be restored in Venezuela
and mitigate the threat that Maduro’s
regime poses to all of us in the Western
Hemisphere.
I also extend my thanks to Mr.
ENGEL, the chairman of the Foreign Af-
fairs Committee, and Mr. MCCAUL, the
ranking member, both of whom have
really come together with the bills
that were adopted earlier, and with
this one, to make sure that it is dem-
onstrated very clearly that there is no
daylight in the United States when it
comes to the issue of making sure that
we can restore democracy to Ven-
ezuela.
Mr. Speaker, the people of Venezuela
are suffering right now under the rule
of a brutal despot, Nicolas Maduro. The
widespread starvation, economic devas-
tation, and public health crisis he has
inflicted on his own people has been ab-
solutely heartbreaking to witness. I
saw this tragedy up close when my col-
league, Representative DONNA
SHALALA, and I traveled to the Colom-
bian-Venezuelan border earlier this
month.
The stories we heard and what we
saw was gut-wrenching: easily avoid-
able medical tragedies; blockaded hu-
manitarian aid; and because of a lack
of access to vaccines, the rampant
spread of disease cured long ago. We
witnessed these tragic realities first-
hand.
I also hear these horrific experiences
from my own friends and neighbors
when I return to my hometown of Wes-
ton, affectionately known in south
Florida and around the world, quite
frankly, as Westonzuela.
It is no surprise that this cruel re-
gime has very few friends. Not surpris-
ingly, one of them is the Kremlin. That
is why the Russia-Venezuelan Threat
Mitigation Act is so urgently needed.
This bill would require the State De-
partment to provide a crucial threat
assessment of Russia’s influence in
Venezuela.
Just this weekend, we saw media re-
ports that more Russian military offi-
cials continue to arrive in Venezuela.
According to the latest reports, planes
brought in Russian cargo, advisers, and
officials to train the same Venezuelan
military apparatus that is keeping
Maduro in power. This is just the latest
attempt in a long-running push by
Vladimir Putin to prop up this brutal
autocrat.
In December, the Russian Federation
sent two Tu-160 nuclear-capable bomb-
ers to Venezuela for joint exercises.
The Tu-160 can carry conventional or
nuclear-tipped cruise missiles with an
estimated maximum range of around
3,000 miles. That same month, Russian
and Venezuelan forces took part in a
joint 10-hour exercise across the Carib-
bean with these Tu-160 nuclear-capable
bombers.
This menacing Kremlin influence
creates not only a hurdle to restoring a
functioning, legitimate democracy to
the people of Venezuela, but it also
poses an imminent military threat to
the entire Western Hemisphere. We not
only need a detailed assessment of
what kind of threat this poses but a
strategy for dealing with it. Under this
bill, the State Department would be re-
quired to deliver both essential diplo-
matic tools to Congress.
Our goal, regardless of party, is to
allow for the peaceful transition to
Venezuela’s rightful leader, interim
President Juan Guaido, and for the
peaceful execution of free and fair elec-
tions. That will not happen soon
enough, so long as Putin troops are
helping prop up Maduro’s bloody re-
gime.
Another invaluable crutch the Krem-
lin has handed Maduro is pipelined
through the embattled nation’s oil sup-
ply. As his people suffer and protest all
around him, Maduro survives inside an
oil-soaked cocoon that the Russian
Federation provides to his regime.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.011 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2784 March 25, 2019
Maduro secures these lifeline loans
by promising to repay the Russians
with future oil exports. But amid Ven-
ezuela’s economic crisis, Maduro, not
surprisingly, fell behind on those pay-
ments, reports indicate, beginning in
2017. News reports suggest that the
Russian state oil company Rosneft lent
the Venezuelan state oil company bil-
lions of dollars, partly as a prepayment
for its crude oil.
Those oily tentacles are another rea-
son why the Russia-Venezuelan Threat
Mitigation Act is so vital. This bill
would also require the President to
give Congress an assessment of the se-
curity risks posed by any potential
Russian acquisition of the U.S. energy
infrastructure holdings of CITGO,
which is owned by Venezuela. By moni-
toring the CITGO acquisition risks, we
monitor one of Maduro’s vital veins of
sustenance.
Finally, what this bill would also do
is allow the United States to use the
diplomatic tools of travel to discourage
further Russian-Venezuelan military
entanglements. It would block travel
to the United States by anyone who is
acting or has acted on behalf of the
Russian Government in direct support
of the Venezuelan security forces.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield an additional 2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Florida.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr.
Speaker, except in rare circumstances,
this bill would allow for a ban and im-
mediate revocation of visas from any-
one working on behalf of the Russian
Government to directly bolster the
Venezuelan security forces.
Right now, the people of Venezuela
are enduring an unimaginable on-
slaught of hunger, preventable medical
dangers, and dire escalating economic
pain. We cannot stand idly by while
Putin assists Maduro in carrying out
this inhumane and barbaric tragedy.
The Russian-Venezuelan Threat Miti-
gation Act will make it harder for the
Kremlin to outfit Maduro with weap-
ons of oppression. This bill will also
allow the United States to monitor and
minimize the threat that Russia poses
to the entire region.
Restoring democracy to Venezuela
will not happen overnight. No single
action alone could bring it about. But
combined with the strong humani-
tarian aid and military export bills my
colleagues have crafted that have
passed on the floor tonight, the Rus-
sian-Venezuelan Threat Mitigation Act
will provide part of the comprehensive
solution this all-encompassing tragedy
needs.
The Venezuelan people, including my
friends and neighbors back home, des-
perately need this relief.
Mr. Speaker, I have heard real stories
of neighbors and friends standing in
front of me, describing the Maduro re-
gime’s confiscation of their businesses,
just coming in one day and taking over
everything. They have wrought devas-
tation across that land. Venezuela was
once a vibrant, rich, successful democ-
racy that he has driven into the ground
for his own enrichment.
We can help bring this to an end
through bills like the Russian-Ven-
ezuelan Threat Mitigation Act.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues
for their support of this critical legisla-
tion.
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I would once
again like to thank my colleagues for
the three bipartisan bills on Venezuela
that have been considered by this
House today.
This is one issue where all Members
of Congress, regardless of party or
background, should stand together
with the people of Venezuela and sup-
port interim President Guaido’s efforts
to bring free and fair elections to the
country.
The criminal socialist dictatorship of
Nicolas Maduro has driven Venezuela
to ruin. He is clinging to power by re-
pressing the people of Venezuela while
surrounding himself with foreign forces
from Cuba and Russia.
Millions of Venezuelans have fled the
dangerous and deteriorating cir-
cumstances at home, as Congress-
woman WASSERMAN SCHULTZ men-
tioned about Weston. We also know
about other places in west Miami
where the Venezuelans, fortunately,
are adding value to our economy now.
They have created burdens and insta-
bility far beyond Venezuela’s border.
The average Venezuelan has lost 20
kilos in the last 2 years. These people
are starving to death under a repres-
sion that hasn’t been seen since
Ceausescu’s Romania or Stalin’s Rus-
sia.
Congress should support the adminis-
tration’s efforts to bring democracy
and prosperity back to Venezuela, and
these bills demonstrate our support for
the values of freedom and liberty that
the Venezuelan people desire and de-
serve.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support H.R. 1477, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume for the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, I would once again like
to thank Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ for
authoring this important legislation
and for her leadership on behalf of the
Venezuelan people.
As we all know, Vladimir Putin is
seeking to expand Russia’s nefarious
influence in many parts of the world,
always against democracy, always in
opposition to the idea that ordinary
people have the right to stand up for
human rights and against corruption,
including in Venezuela.
This is the struggle of our time. This
legislation makes it clear that we
stand united with our allies in Latin
America and across the world in reject-
ing the Kremlin’s support for the cor-
rupt Maduro regime.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the legislation, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
MALINOWSKI) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1477, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
HONORING THE WORK OF TUBER-
CULOSIS SURVIVOR KATE
O’BRIEN
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the great work of tuber-
culosis survivor Kate O’Brien.
Kate visited my office in Newark ear-
lier this month, along with the staff
from the Global Tuberculosis Institute
of Rutgers University. She shared with
me her inspiring story about surviving
TB and the need for global and domes-
tic TB funding.
Tuberculosis is a curable, airborne
infection that kills more people world-
wide than any other infectious disease.
It is the leading killer of people with
HIV worldwide.
Tuberculosis is also a problem here
in the United States. In 2016, the dis-
ease was reported in each of the 50
States, with more than 9,000 cases re-
ported across the country that year.
Though it is curable, TB has a huge
economic impact. In my State of New
Jersey, TB costs the economy $5.7 mil-
lion a year.
We have made tremendous progress
to combat TB here in the United
States. Because of the work of advo-
cates and survivors like Kate O’Brien,
we can raise awareness about tuber-
culosis, increase funding for research
and treatment, and save lives at home
and abroad.
f
HONORING ARMY SPECIALIST
ROSS MCGINNIS ON NATIONAL
MEDAL OF HONOR DAY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, today is National Medal
of Honor Day, when this Nation recalls
the sacrifice and heroics of all Medal of
Honor recipients.
Over 150 years ago, on March 25, 1863,
the first Medals of Honor were pre-
sented. In 1990, Congress designated
March 25 as National Medal of Honor
Day. The Medal of Honor is the highest
military honor our Nation can bestow.
In 2016, I was able to recognize one of
Pennsylvania’s very own Medal of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.028 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2785
March 25, 2019
Honor recipients, the late Army Spe-
cialist Ross McGinnis. The post office
in Knox, Clarion County, is named for
Specialist McGinnis, who died in De-
cember 2006 in Iraq.
While on patrol in eastern Baghdad
on December 4, 2006, an unidentified in-
surgent positioned on a nearby rooftop
threw a grenade into a Humvee car-
rying McGinnis and other troops. Spe-
cialist McGinnis threw his body on top
of the grenade, saving the lives of his
fellow soldiers.
He was posthumously awarded the
Medal of Honor by President George W.
Bush in 2008.
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of a grateful
Nation, I salute all our Medal of Honor
recipients.
f
b 1930
HONORING ROBERT MCDANIEL
(Mr. VEASEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. VEASEY. Mr. Speaker, last week
the city of Fort Worth said good-bye to
its last surviving member of the World
War II Tuskegee Airmen, Robert T.
McDaniel.
Born in Fort Worth, Mr. McDaniel
was a proud graduate of Fort Worth
ISD, where he excelled as a student. In
1940, he finished as class president and
valedictorian at the venerable I.M.
Terrell High School.
At a time when the military was still
segregated and Black men were not
welcomed in the service, Mr. McDaniel
became a member of the first class of
African American bombardiers in the
U.S. Army Air Corps. He was part of a
group of skilled Black airmen who flew
combat aircraft in World War II.
After serving his country, Mr.
McDaniel returned to Fort Worth to
teach at I.M. Terrell and later became
a principal and a counselor. In this
role, he worked to inspire a generation
of leaders in Fort Worth’s Black com-
munity that is countless.
As many of his friends will tell you,
Mr. McDaniel never boasted about his
military service, and only a few people
knew about his service to the Nation as
a Tuskegee Airman.
I know that we are going to miss Mr.
McDaniel.
I also wanted to touch on the fact
that I will never forget when his wife,
Hester, died. They were married for 55
years, and they were an institution in
the Black community in Fort Worth.
Everybody knew them. They were just
a lovely couple. He was so sad when she
passed away. They were always at each
other’s side.
While we will miss Mr. McDaniel, we
know that he is happy to be reunited
with his wife, Hester McDaniel.
My deepest condolences go out to his
family and his friends as we reflect on
the trails that he blazed and his deep
commitment to our country.
RECOGNIZING BEN DAVIS
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, the Boy
Scout motto is ‘‘Be Prepared.’’ All
Scouts say it, but very few live it. A
young Scout from Sugar Land, Texas,
lived it. His name is Ben Davis.
On July 2, 2018, Ben hears faint cries.
He is horrified when he finds the
source: an 87-year-old neighbor lying in
her yard. She had fallen doing yard
work. She had been lying in the hot
Texas July sun for hours. She was
dying.
Being a prepared Boy Scout, Ben
knew exactly what to do: go into the
woman’s house, call 911. And that is ex-
actly what Ben did. Ben stayed with
his neighbor until help arrived.
Ben Davis is the best in Sugar Land,
in Fort Bend County, in Texas, and in
America. He is a prepared Boy Scout
hero.
f
WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTH
(Mrs. LAWRENCE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in celebration of Women’s His-
tory Month, where we recognize women
who are living today, making a dif-
ference in America.
I want to recognize a Detroit woman,
Adrienne Bennett, who was the first
Black female master plumber in the
United States of America. She had al-
ready broken barriers and made his-
tory, and her impact only continues to
soar in her position as the CEO of her
own company.
This month and every month, we
must stand up and lift up women all
across this country, ensuring our laws
and policies empower and protect all
women.
Mr. Speaker, I stand here today as
co-chair of the Women’s Caucus and
join women all over this country as we
step up and ensure that this country,
for the girls and young women coming
behind us, is one of respect, one of
equality, and one of opportunities.
f
HONORING NATIONAL YOUNG
FARMERS AWARD
(Mr. ROUZER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, Jessica
and Brandon Batten of Johnston Coun-
ty, North Carolina, have received the
distinct honor of being selected as the
2019 National Outstanding Young
Farmers of the Year. No couple is more
deserving of this award than Jessica
and Brandon.
Brandon has been farming his entire
life. He is a sixth-generation farmer
and the third generation of his family’s
operation Triple B Farms, Incor-
porated, where he and his family
produce tobacco, wheat, rye, soybeans,
corn, and hay, along with beef cattle.
His wife, Jessica, is an environmental
engineer, providing innovative con-
servation plans to help increase farm
productivity.
Not only are the Battens helping to
produce our food supply, they are also
very active members of their commu-
nity. Brandon is a first responder for
Strickland’s Crossroads Volunteer Fire
Department, and both are active in
their church.
During a time when North Carolina’s
farm families have been facing a great
deal of uncertainty, Brandon has been
a strong advocate for his occupation
through various farm organizations as
well as the promotion of research and
technological advancements in agri-
culture to help the industry remain
strong.
Mr. Speaker, these are two great
young Americans who deserve to have
their hard work and efforts rewarded,
and I congratulate them on being se-
lected for this very distinguished rec-
ognition.
f
WHEN WOMEN SUCCEED, AMERICA
SUCCEEDS
(Mrs. BEATTY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, I come
today to the floor to salute women, liv-
ing legends, women who are focused
and determined and hopeful and em-
powered—not just one, but a roll call
from my district:
Karen Morrison, Ohio Health; Trudy
Bartley, The Ohio State University;
Stephanie Hightower, the Urban
League; Kathy Espy, Mount Carmel;
Yvette McGee Brown, Jones Day law
firm; the Women’s Fund; the YWCA,
with Christie Angel; Go Red for
Women; Delta Sigma Theta; The Links,
Incorporated; the Matriarch; Barbara
Benham, Huntington Bank; Dawn
Tyler Lee, the mayor’s office; Emilia
Sykes, Ohio House Democratic leader;
Our judges, African American women
elected to the courts: Jaiza Page, Lau-
rel Beatty Blunt, Monica Hawkins,
Kimberly Browne, Terri Jamison. And
the list goes on and on: Jennifer Brun-
ner, judge; and, yes, the Ohio Supreme
Court, Melody Stewart.
Today I stand here and I say thank
you to Jo Ann Davidson, the first fe-
male Speaker in Ohio; Colleen Mar-
shall, reporting it every day on the
news; and so many more.
Today I join women on this floor be-
cause we salute women. Women make a
difference. But most importantly, Mr.
Speaker, we know when women suc-
ceed, America succeeds.
f
MOTORCYCLE PROFILING
(Mr. BURGESS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, as co-
chair of the Congressional Motorcycle
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.030 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2786 March 25, 2019
Caucus, I am committed to advocating
for riders both on and off the road.
This week, Congressman TIM
WALBERG and I will reintroduce a reso-
lution highlighting motorcycle
profiling. This resolution recognizes
motorcyclists’ importance to their
communities and promotes collabora-
tion between motorcyclists and law en-
forcement.
We introduced this resolution in a
previous Congress, and its Senate com-
panion was passed in December of last
year.
Mr. Speaker, more than 27 million
Americans are estimated to operate a
motorcycle, annually, representing 9
percent of the population, yet motorcy-
clists account for a significant portion
of road accidents and road injuries.
That is why I co-chair the Congres-
sional Motorcycle Caucus: to support
riders through education and aware-
ness.
Together, we can make travel safer
for all motorists in general and motor-
cyclists in particular. This first week
of spring, I look forward to continued
engagement on motorcycle safety and
awareness.
Remember: Share the road.
f
NATO’S 70TH ANNIVERSARY
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, during
this Women’s History Month, I rise to
recognize the life of Madeleine Jana
Korbel Albright, the first female U.S.
Secretary of State, serving from 1997 to
2001, who has dedicated the best years
of her life to defending liberty.
Concurrently, it is my honor to com-
memorate the 70th anniversary of
NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization. This historic alliance
emerged out of the ashes of the blood-
iest conflict humankind has ever
known: World War II.
It is thanks to NATO that the free
world defeated Soviet Russia’s tyran-
nical grip over Europe and expanded
democracy eastward. Seventy years
later, NATO remains as vital as ever to
national security.
Today, Russia seeks to undermine
democratic values enshrined by NATO
and its member nations as Russia leads
a deadly war against the freedom-lov-
ing people of Ukraine, seeks to spread
corruption across Europe, and under-
mines democratic institutions around
the world, including in our own elec-
tions.
For this reason, Congress welcomes
Jens Stoltenberg, Secretary General of
NATO, to address a joint meeting here
on April 3 to invoke the importance of
America’s commitment to this abiding
relationship.
On the 70th anniversary, on behalf of
grateful millions of Ohioans and Amer-
icans, we send a message of reassur-
ance to our European allies: We stand
together in liberty’s cause.
Onward, NATO.
74TH EXPEDITIONARY FIGHTER
SQUADRON
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize the 74th
Expeditionary Fighter Squadron for
being awarded the Gallant Unit Cita-
tion on March 14.
An extraordinarily high honor for
these pilots based at Moody Air Force
Base in the First Congressional Dis-
trict of Georgia, this is only the fifth
time ever the Gallant Unit Citation
has been awarded, and the first since
2001. It was created to honor remark-
able acts of heroism while engaged
with an opposing foreign force on or
since 9/11.
The 74th Expeditionary Fighter
Squadron earned the award while they
were deployed in Turkey, flying for
over 10,000 hours in Syria, targeting ob-
jectives controlled by ISIS. Their ef-
forts were critical to the elimination of
ISIS from 99 percent of Iraq and Syria.
I want to thank the 74th Fighter
Squadron for their hard work and sac-
rifices to make the entire world a safer
place to live. I am also very proud to
see this work recognized.
Congratulations.
f
WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTH
(Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to honor Women’s
History Month and the important role
that New Hampshire has played in our
proud tradition of women breaking bar-
riers.
In 1870, 50 years before passage of the
19th Amendment, Marilla Ricker at-
tempted to vote in New Hampshire.
She was denied the ballot, but she re-
fused to stand by and continued to at-
tempt to vote over the coming decades.
Ms. Ricker was denied admittance to
the New Hampshire Bar, but fought all
the way to the State supreme court,
and in 1890 became the first woman ad-
mitted to our State bar.
Women hold many firsts in elected
office in New Hampshire. Dudley Dud-
ley, the first woman on the New Hamp-
shire Executive Council; JEANNE SHA-
HEEN, Governor; Beverly Hollingworth,
Senate President; and Donna Sytek,
Speaker of the New Hampshire House,
all served together in 1999. Linda
Dalianis became our first Chief Justice
of the New Hampshire Supreme Court.
In 2012, I was honored to be a member
of the first ever all-female congres-
sional delegation with Senators
JEANNE SHAHEEN, Kelly Ayotte, and
Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter.
Now, JEANNE SHAHEEN and MAGGIE
HASSAN are the only women ever in
American history to serve as Governor
and U.S. Senator.
For Women’s History Month, I am
proud of New Hampshire’s contribution
to advancing women.
THE MUELLER INVESTIGATION IS
OVER
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to express my relief that this po-
litical witch hunt into the President’s
alleged and now disproven ties with
Russia is finally over.
Most of us knew all along there was
no smoking gun, including the major-
ity of my Democrat colleagues who
have been parroting these lies for more
than 2 years. Now, Special Counsel
Robert Mueller has all but confirmed
the President’s innocence, his report
finding there was no evidence of collu-
sion with Russia.
This whole thing started because the
left couldn’t accept that they had lost
an election, and the American people
have suffered through this divisive in-
vestigation as a result.
Those in Congress or in the media
who perpetrated this false narrative for
2 years should be ashamed of them-
selves. Believe me, the American peo-
ple know who you are, and they will
not soon forget.
Even worse, still now the response by
some—the lack of acceptance of Mr.
Mueller’s findings, the need to dig
deeper and deeper—shows they still
haven’t learned a thing.
But I believe Americans will accept
this truth, as most have all along. I
pray that we as a people can now fi-
nally begin to move on from this dis-
graceful chapter in American history.
f
b 1945
WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTH
(Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York asked and was given permis-
sion to address the House for 1 minute.)
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I rise to join my
colleagues on the Women’s Caucus in
celebrating Women’s History Month.
I am very fortunate to come from
New York State, the birthplace of the
women’s rights movement in Seneca
Falls, and a State that has given many
great women leaders to this country,
such as Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan
B. Anthony, Bella Abzug, Geraldine
Ferraro, and Shirley Chisholm.
But the truth is that many women
who have made extraordinary contribu-
tions to our country are largely left
out of the telling of our Nation’s his-
tory. That is why I am reintroducing
bipartisan legislation this week to es-
tablish a Smithsonian Women’s His-
tory Museum in Washington, D.C., and
I hope that all my colleagues will join
me in this goal.
It comes down to a basic question:
How can we empower women if we do
not even recognize them? There is not
one comprehensive women’s museum
anywhere in the United States of
America. The U.S. needs and deserves a
women’s history museum that will in-
spire men and women of all ages for fu-
ture generations during Women’s His-
tory Month and all through the year. It
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.032 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2787
March 25, 2019
is important. I hope we can make it
happen in this Congress.
f
OPPOSING GREEN NEW DEAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Ari-
zona (Mr. GOSAR) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the minor-
ity leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude materials on the topic of my Spe-
cial Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to lead a Western Caucus Special
Order to voice our vehement opposition
to the Green New Deal before it is put
out of its misery by a vote in the U.S.
Senate later this week.
With an estimated price tag of $93
trillion over the first 10 years, the
Green New Deal costs more than four
times the U.S. public debt. The Green
New Deal is a Soviet-style takeover of
our entire economy that will radically
transform America into a country that
will be very bleak and unrecognizable
from the country that we know and
love today.
The proponents of the Green New
Deal like to make it out to be a pro-
gram to improve our environment, but
in reality, it is just a socialist experi-
ment on a grand scale.
Included in the Green New Deal is a
job guarantee, even if you don’t want
to work; a housing guarantee; a
healthcare guarantee; and an education
guarantee. The cost of these guaran-
tees will put a major burden on the
American taxpayer, with the
healthcare guarantee alone costing
taxpayers $32 trillion in the first 10
years.
None of these guarantees have any-
thing to do with improving our envi-
ronment but, rather, are socialist talk-
ing points dating back centuries. In
fact, only 15 percent of the estimated
cost of the Green New Deal applies to
the environment.
Pair this additional tax burden with
the cost of complying with all the new
one-size-fits-all regulations included in
the Green New Deal, which is esti-
mated to cost $650,000 per household
over 10 years, and the annually dispos-
able income for an average household
just vanishes.
In total, Americans will have to
spend $155.5 billion to replace furnaces,
$11.9 billion to replace gas dryers, $50
billion to replace water heaters, and
$26 billion to replace stoves.
In the words of Michael Zehr from
the Consumer Energy Alliance: ‘‘Amer-
ican consumers need practical energy
solutions that come from our Nation’s
existing mix of affordable energy re-
sources. As it stands, the Green New
Deal does not offer cost-efficient or
sustainable solutions for hardworking
families and businesses across our
country.’’
The Green New Deal is a job killer.
The Green New Deal would eliminate
10.3 million jobs in the oil and gas in-
dustry, 600,000 jobs in the aviation in-
dustry, 1.4 million hydroelectric jobs,
100,000 jobs in nuclear energy, and
50,000 jobs in coal.
Mr. Speaker, while it is important to
point out the most obvious and radical
policies of the Green New Deal, such as
the elimination of conventional energy
sources and industries, there are sev-
eral other policy consequences that
should be highlighted.
Mr. Speaker, did you know that, ac-
cording to the think tank Data
Progress, the Green New Deal will rein-
state the Obama administration’s
WOTUS, the waters of the U.S., and the
so-called Clean Power Plan rules as
part of this terrible policy? These two
burdensome regulations in and of
themselves did more to strip Ameri-
cans of their property rights and
shackle baseload power than any other
regulations before them. Data Progress
also reports that the Green New Deal
will ban plastic straws and ban hydrau-
lic fracturing.
The democratic socialists pushing
the Green New Deal want to get rid of
all energy sources except wind, solar,
and batteries by 2030. How are we going
to do that when wind and solar only
produced 7.6 percent of our electricity
in 2017? How are we going to domesti-
cally produce the critical minerals
needed for this endeavor and renew-
ables when democratic socialists and
extreme environmentalists vehemently
oppose mining?
As for America’s farmers, the Green
New Deal would also reduce current
farming practices and land use by 70
percent by 2050 and ban groundwater
irrigation by large-scale agribusiness.
For many of my colleagues, that means
unemployment for many and a signifi-
cantly decreased standard of living for
all. How are we going to feed ourselves?
How are we going to feed the world?
When it comes to the Green New
Deal, I think all of us must ask our-
selves a simple question: Are we so ar-
rogant to think that Washington, D.C.,
should control and dictate every aspect
of the lives of the American people? My
answer to that question is emphati-
cally no. No, we should not. And, no,
we will not allow the flawed policies of
the Green New Deal to be adopted.
Renewables are playing, and will con-
tinue to play, an important role in our
energy future, but they cannot exclu-
sively be relied upon to provide all our
energy and electrical needs.
Let’s deal in reality and put an end
to the socialist Green New Deal once
and for all.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. BABIN).
Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleague from Arizona for yielding.
I rise today, Mr. Speaker, in strong
opposition to H. Res. 109, the Green
New Deal. This resolution is nothing
short of a socialistic takeover of our
energy, our transportation, and our ag-
ricultural industries that aims to
change every single aspect of our lives,
including how Americans eat, travel,
stay warm, build their homes, and even
what jobs we take.
As a fiscal conservative, I believe
that the Green New Deal is entirely ir-
responsible. Recently, our national
debt exceeded $22 trillion, and we have
no realistic plan for paying that off.
The Green New Deal would add tril-
lions more to our debt, while simulta-
neously destroying the American econ-
omy.
It would also transfer tremendous
costs onto the taxpayers, a total of $93
trillion over 10 years. For example,
every home and every building would
need to be retrofitted at the cost of $2.5
trillion over the next decade.
Additionally, the Green New Deal’s
stated goal is to achieve net-zero
greenhouse gas emissions in that same
timeframe, which will cost the tax-
payer $11 trillion. Our current tax base
could not support this catastrophic
level of new spending. Therefore, taxes
will need to be raised on every single
American and business, inflicting mas-
sive damage on our economy due to the
loss in take-home pay for the average
family and resulting in job losses in
the private sector.
Proponents of the Green New Deal
also want to see all our American
power come from wind or solar or bat-
teries. This is completely
unsustainable, currently, and will lead
to blackouts, a dwindling food supply,
and an all-out assault on private prop-
erty rights.
The Green New Deal also contains no
plan on what we will do with all the
refuse and the trash that will be result-
ing from the millions of appliances,
batteries, and buildings that need to be
replaced or retrofitted.
This proposal, as grand in its scope
as it is absent in its specifics, betrays
a shocking naivete and a total absence
of understanding of basic economic
principles or even of our electric grid
and infrastructure.
Most importantly, the authors of this
proposal fail to appreciate the love of
liberty and freedom that the American
people share. Americans will never
stand for such a radical, socialistic re-
structuring of our economy, and it
must be strongly and emphatically re-
jected.
Over the last century, we have seen
socialist governments around the world
make the same empty promises of un-
limited peace and prosperity if only
their citizens would just relinquish
control of their affairs and give up
their freedoms and liberty to an over-
bearing government. The result has in-
evitably been the same: barren fields,
crumbling infrastructure, broken
economies, oppressed peoples, and,
eventually, fleeing populations, as we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.035 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2788 March 25, 2019
have seen firsthand in Venezuela, Cuba,
the Soviet Union, and many other
failed socialistic states.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentleman from Kansas (Mr. MAR-
SHALL). The gentleman represents
many agricultural producers whose
livelihoods are greatly threatened by
this legislation.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I had a young family in
my office this morning, a wonderful,
nice-looking 11-year-old boy who was
in my office today with his dad, his
mom, and several other people from
southwest Kansas. He looked at me and
he said: Congressman MARSHALL, will I
be able to run cattle when I get older?
My great-grandfather ran cattle; my
grandfather ran cattle; my daddy ran
cattle; and I would like to run cattle
someday, but this Green New Deal
scares me.
He said: Will the Green New Deal
keep me from running cattle?
I had to say: Unfortunately, yes, it
would.
The Green New Deal would be the end
of agriculture as we know it in Kansas.
Agriculture makes up 40 percent of the
economy of Kansas. For all practical
purposes, it would be the end of the
Kansas economy.
Another large part of our economy is
oil and gas, and the Green New Deal
would be the end of that.
I always try to think about the im-
pact of something like the Green New
Deal. First of all, it would triple your
taxes. I think that would be well prov-
en. But I always am especially con-
cerned for that young family, maybe
that family that I delivered 5 or 10 or
15 years ago, and they have two or
three kids at home. How would the new
Green New Deal impact them? First of
all, their grocery bill is going to double
or triple, I suppose. They would have to
replace all the appliances in their
home. Their utility bill is going to go
up.
Then I think about the price of gas. I
always noticed in my obstetrical prac-
tice that whenever the price of gasoline
got about $3 a gallon, women would
suddenly ask: Do we have to come back
this often? Quite a few of my patients
live 60 or 90 miles from me, and it was
quite a challenge to come visit us.
When the price of gasoline got about $3
a gallon, they didn’t want to come
quite as often.
I can’t help but think what the Green
New Deal would do to the cost of gaso-
line, if there is such a thing. I suppose
we would all be driving electric cars.
Where I am from, I only wish that we
could hop on a train and take public
transportation, but there are just not
enough trains to go around in Kansas.
We are lucky to have roads in most
places where we live, so public trans-
portation just isn’t an option.
All that being said, Mr. Speaker, I
think, like the gentleman from Ari-
zona, I want to leave this country and
I want to leave the State of Kansas
cleaner than I found it. I am so proud
that Kansas waters and Kansas air are
cleaner today than when I was growing
up. I am very proud of that. I want to
keep going in that direction.
I am very proud that the carbon im-
print from the United States is less
today than it was in 2004, and I want to
keep going in that direction. But it is
my belief that innovation is what is
going to drive this and keep us going in
that direction.
I am so proud of what the American
entrepreneurs have done in Kansas and
across this country, our ability to get
more natural gas and to make all of
our refineries cleaner. Where we
produce electricity, so many of them
are 97 percent cleaner.
The issue of ecology is a worldwide
problem. It is a problem that the
United States cannot cure by itself. We
need to be a leader and keep going in
the direction we are going.
I look forward to working with folks
across the aisle to come up with real
solutions that will really work for this
country. I think that the American in-
novator will do great things and that
better days are ahead for America.
b 2000
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I would
now like to recognize the gentleman
from Utah (Mr. BISHOP).
Mr. BISHOP is the ranking member of
the Natural Resources Committee and
has been a steadfast leader in opposing
the Green New Deal.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
appreciate the gentleman from Arizona
(Mr. GOSAR) taking the lead this
evening and talking about this impor-
tant issue.
Look, one of the things we always
need to do is learn the lessons of his-
tory, so we simply do not repeat them.
In the late 1800–1900s, communism
was the new government concept that
excited the elites of that particular era
to the point that it was such an expan-
sive idea, that part of the reason that
Woodrow Wilson wrote his 14 points
was to intellectually challenge com-
munism and restate the significance of
democracy and republican forms of
government.
When communism did obviously take
root in the Soviet Union and China, it
was not a philosophical statement, it
was simply an excuse for the good, old-
fashioned dictators to tell people how
to live their lives.
So as Lenin called it, it was impor-
tant to have the vanguard of the prole-
tariat, so the government would tell
people how to think until people real-
ized that the government was right in
the first place.
Those are some of the parts of his-
tory that we never want to repeat
again.
Now, if the Green New Deal, this
toothless wish, was merely a one-and-
done manifesto, then maybe that would
be one thing, but my fear is, it becomes
an opening salvo into the dangers that
are stated when we decide that the gov-
ernment must find the solutions, the
government must tell people what to
think and what to do, that elites are
the ones who have all the ideas; when
in reality, history has shown us that
solutions always come from people who
were empowered to find and make deci-
sions for themselves, and find solutions
for themselves.
People need to be given options. Peo-
ple need to be given choices, people
need to be able to chart their own des-
tiny.
My fear is elitism enriches and em-
powers would-be autocrats, denigrates
the roles of individuals, and those are
dangerous attitudes that must be dis-
cussed and must be understood in some
way.
And let’s face it, some of the people—
the cheerleaders for the Green New
Deal—they simply don’t get it.
When they live in areas where com-
mutes, family errands are measured in
blocks and subway stops, that is dif-
ferent from other people in America
who, when they take a drive into town
to buy school clothes that is going to
take the entire afternoon.
It is different than people who realize
that they have to make a choice be-
tween healthcare and heating their
home; and that is a real responsibility
for them, and a real problem.
The burdens imposed by the Green
New Deal, which have been outlined by
several speakers already, are those
that land squarely on the shoulders of
humble, hardworking Americans while
the elites pat themselves on the back.
For the rural west, my State of Utah,
it is not really a Green New Deal; it is,
rather, a green raw deal for them to
live.
Now, recently in my committee
where I am the ranking member, we
had an amendment that Mr. GRAVES
made to one of the rules that would re-
quest an analysis of economics before
any bill was considered.
Now, one of the freshmen Democrats
spoke to that issue, and I want to just
restate what he said. I thought what he
said was profound.
He stated, I think we have to be very
mindful of the people, their jobs, their
ability to pay their bills, because of the
changes that we make.
And this is a discussion that should
always be had. We shouldn’t just be
speaking in the theoretical.
Now, ironically, even though I
thought his words were spot on, that
motion to have that policy was de-
feated.
Nonetheless, I recently joined other
ranking members in asking Speaker
PELOSI that if there was serious discus-
sion, that unlike H.R. 1, this is going to
be heard by many committees, many
voices will have a chance at talking
about what will actually happen.
These hearings ought to ask how this
Green New Deal might impact energy
prices and home prices and jobs and
healthcare.
So far, those who have done the se-
ries of studies—so far they’re from the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.036 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2789
March 25, 2019
outside—the outlook looks pretty
bleak on what the potential could in-
deed be.
There are already many complex ex-
amples of negative impacts that would
happen if this was actually to become a
reality.
So as stated in our plea to Speaker
PELOSI, I do fear that this Green New
Deal would hurt Americans struggling
to make ends meet, the very people it
purports to help. And worst of all, it
could permanently put the American
Dream out of reach for millions of peo-
ple.
We need to really look very carefully
at this and not just assume statements
that are being made taking place. We
need to learn from history and not re-
peat those same mistakes.
Mr. Speaker, I am appreciative of
having the opportunity of being here as
part of this Special Order to try and
talk about some of the realities of this
purported deal.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate the gentleman’s response, and
thank him.
I yield to my friend, the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. GRIFFITH).
Mr. GRIFFITH represents the heart of
Virginia coal country, an industry that
would be eliminated if the Green New
Deal would become law.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman.
Mr. Speaker, you know I would like
to engage in colloquies and talk about
issues.
Mr. GOSAR. Sure.
Mr. GRIFFITH. And you know what
is interesting about this is, I do rep-
resent a coal district, but if we shut
down all of this, as we have discussed
in the Green New Deal, are the Indians
going to stop using coal?
Of course not.
Are the Chinese going to stop using
coal?
Mr. GOSAR. No.
Mr. GRIFFITH. No. The rest of the
world will continue to use these
sources.
And, in fact, industries that are de-
pendent upon our natural resources—
coal, oil, natural gas—well, they will
just move to the countries that will let
them use it, and it will not have any
effect on the environment.
But this really is not a proposal that
should be taken seriously. It was clear-
ly thrown together quickly in an at-
tempt to get some press; and, unfortu-
nately, 100 Members of the body de-
cided to sign on to it.
But when you read it, you know it is
not there. We have heard all the things
that could happen if we take a watered-
down version of the Green New Deal.
But if we pass the Green New Deal and
we actually do what it says, and you
read the words, it says, remove green-
house gases from the atmosphere. It
doesn’t say, reduce. It doesn’t say, re-
move hazardous greenhouse gases.
So, I would ask my friend who holds
a degree in the science field, and with
whom we have lots of discussion about
science on the floor and at various
meetings; what happens if we eliminate
the greenhouse gases of water vapor
and carbon dioxide; eliminate them, re-
move them, as the Green New Deal
calls for?
What happens if that occurs?
Mr. GOSAR. Well, photosynthesis;
this is the key component of cellular
growth in plants. They take carbon di-
oxide; they take dirty water; they have
sunlight, and it produces oxygen and
clean water. That is what we actually
get with photosynthesis.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, and if
you eliminate carbon dioxide—the gen-
tleman is correct—we won’t have any
plants. If we don’t have any plants, ox-
ygen plummets in the atmosphere.
And as I told a group of high school
students recently, and you know what
that means for us?
And all, if not most, life forms that
currently rely on either carbon dioxide
or oxygen will die and all that will be
left are the life forms, the microbial
life forms that live near hot vents in
the ocean or the edges of volcanoes, be-
cause they don’t rely on that. The rest
of life would be wiped out.
Now, I know that is not what the
Democrats meant when they intro-
duced this, but isn’t that the scientific
conclusion of removing greenhouse
gases from the atmosphere; not reduc-
ing, removing? Isn’t that correct?
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, it abso-
lutely would be correct.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, and so
while I know they weren’t thinking
about it or they probably didn’t mean
to go that far, it shows you that even
if we modified it, it won’t work for the
people.
Jobs would be eliminated, jobs will
be cut, and we really won’t have any
impact on the environment unless we
go the full bore, in which case, we no
longer have air to breathe and we
won’t have to worry about the global
temperature in 20 years or 30 years or
40 years, because none of us will be
here.
And it is just fascinating to me how
they can get the science so messed up
and, yet, lecture to us about the
science.
Mr. GOSAR. Absolutely.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman.
In fact, the gentleman brings up a
great point.
There is an article by Michael
Shellenberger and it is, ‘‘Why Renew-
ables Can’t Save the Planet.’’ In this
discussion—it is a wonderful article; it
is in Quillette—he talks about renew-
able energy, particularly solar and
wind.
They are low density. They don’t
have what they call basal power. They
only produce when the sun is shining
and when the wind is blowing. So you
need batteries. And as he states so elo-
quently here, the new renaissance for
batteries isn’t coming any time soon.
In fact, we see many of the same peo-
ple who propose the Green New Deal
are obstinate in trying to allow mining
for these critical and rare earths that
are required for battery development.
In fact, over 90 percent of the world’s
market for critical minerals—or these
rare earths—are dictated by China. So
they are not going to come any time
soon.
And then, let’s talk about the eco-
logical damage.
In fact, wind is the largest destroyer
of large birds.
Now, small, little birds, cats will
take care of, but what ends up hap-
pening, raptors—like condors and ea-
gles and hawks—are the ones who are
killed most often by these big rotary
blades or turbines that turn. These are
the birds that are most at peril right
now in our world.
So once again, we are dooming the
future because we are predominating
selection to the government, and that
is a sad thing.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Will the gentleman
yield for a second?
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentleman from Virginia.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, the
gentleman may recall, I am a bird-
watcher.
Mr. GOSAR. Yes, the gentleman is.
Mr. GRIFFITH. So when the gen-
tleman started talking about birds, I
came back to the mike.
We hope science will solve these
problems, and that is why we need to
have more research and development
on all of this.
Instead of saying, stop everything,
we need to do research and develop-
ment. But isn’t there also a problem
today with solar and some of the larger
solar arrays that they actually fry
birds as they fly; whether it be large
birds or small birds?
Mr. GOSAR. Absolutely.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Because the birds
don’t see the heat, and they fly into it,
and they are fried to a crackly crunch.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, that is ex-
actly right.
Mr. GRIFFITH. And so there are lots
of things we need to worry about in
that regard.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gen-
tleman bringing that up today, because
what we want to do is have a balanced
approach.
We want renewables. We want all of
the above. But we also have to make
sure that we are not throwing the baby
out with the bathwater, and in the end,
killing off our large predator birds or
killing birds with technologies that are
not quite ready for prime time.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, the gen-
tleman is absolutely right. The renew-
ables are very important, because what
it allows us to do is take this wonder-
ful wealth that we have of coal and nu-
clear and oil and gas and hydro, and
really extend it into the future, where
the best way that we can have an im-
pact on this world is our democracy,
our republic, our way of
entrepreneurially changing things; not
having dictations coming by the Fed-
eral Government. It is the entrepre-
neurial spirit of individuals.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.038 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2790 March 25, 2019
So it is a wonderful aspect to use all
the above. And I think that is what ev-
erybody would like to see.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Hear, hear, Mr.
Speaker.
Mr. Speaker, I would be remiss if I
didn’t mention that we are working on
some technology right now that allows
us to extract rare earth minerals out of
some of our coal deposits to the United
States and be able to take some of that
business away from the Chinese and
bring it back to the United States
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, the gen-
tleman is exactly right.
Mr. Speaker, in fact, the gentleman
is very astute in regard to the overbur-
den area, where many of these rare
earths can be extracted; so we are not
dependent upon the whims and wiles of
the Chinese Government.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I just
have to bring this up: I was meeting
with some folks at Virginia Tech re-
cently who are working on this very
area. And as a part of the spinoff of the
research and the technology they are
doing to refine it and to try to get the
other minerals out, they have also
found a way of using that same tech-
nology to improve the steel industry.
And they are now licensing some steel
companies in India, which would lower
their carbon footprint.
So we have the research into coal
that is now going to help the steel in-
dustry in an area that doesn’t have
anywhere near the regulations we have
to lower their carbon footprint.
This is the way we should be going in
the United States: Use our entrepre-
neurial spirit; use our research; put
some Federal money behind that re-
search, but use our research to find
ways to make the environment, world-
wide, better instead of proclaiming
broad edicts that we are not going to
have cows in 10 years, or we are not
going to do this in 10 years.
Instead, let’s let our research and our
entrepreneurial spirit and our inge-
nuity solve these problems for us and
the world.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, the gen-
tleman also brings to my mind another
opportunity that we actually see where
the pulverization of coal is then in-
jected into spaces within oil; we get a
50 percent additional better burn and a
cleaner burn at that.
So once again, the technology is
there for all these abundances of
wealth that we have in the energy sec-
tor.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Absolutely.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman.
You know, when the gentleman talks
about rare earths, they sit all over our
western frontier.
b 2015
In fact, in Arizona, they line our
deserts.
These are geos, and typically, in the
past, to extract those rare earths that
are required for these batteries for
solar and wind, it is very caustic by
utilizing high concentrations of sul-
furic acid. But we have got the entre-
preneurial spirit of people back in Ari-
zona who are using high concentrations
of citric acids, like from limes and lem-
ons, and actually extracting the same
rare earths in that aspect.
Once again, the power of those entre-
preneurial individuals out there in
America are the ones who are changing
the dynamics of the way our energy
portfolio looks.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Utah (Mr. BISHOP) for some addi-
tional comments.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
appreciate the opportunity of speaking
one more time here especially because
this is such a significant issue that you
are addressing to the people and be-
cause, as leader of the Congressional
Western Caucus, you have held a whole
lot of forums to discuss the implica-
tions of what could be there.
So in one of the last forums, we had
policy think tanks and industry and
conservation groups that were there
testifying. I was struck by the com-
ments of Thomas Pyle, president of the
American Energy Alliance, when he
said: ‘‘For nearly a decade now, the
United States, long blessed with vast
natural resources, has benefited from
the greatest energy expansion in the
history of the world. Our energy pro-
ducers have delivered the low-cost, af-
fordable, and reliable energy that has
fueled economic growth and oppor-
tunity for all Americans, no matter
their race, sex, creed, or color.’’
Now, it is interesting, as we talk
about this concept, that, according to
the U.S. Energy Information Adminis-
tration, by 2020 the United States will
become a net exporter of energy for the
first time since 1953. That means no
longer are we going to be reliant upon
questionable foreign powers like Russia
or Saudi Arabia for our energy.
Even the concepts that we have de-
veloped, the fracking and horizontal
drilling, those concepts have allowed
us not only to expand what we are
doing, but also have allowed us to have
a carbon emission reduction at the
same time. We were the world leader in
carbon reduction in 2015, 2016, and 2017,
and we are still on that same track
again.
In fact, one of the things I find
unique about the Green New Deal is it
fails to realize that, because of what we
have been able to do in oil and natural
gas, energy prices are down for those
who are most vulnerable in our society.
We can afford to cook our food and
heat our homes better than ever before.
And while this production has risen
significantly, methane emissions have
decreased at the same time. In fact, the
EPA reported that U.S. greenhouse gas
emissions are already down 10 percent
in the last 10 years.
So while the Green New Deal has
every potential of destroying jobs for
millions of people, it still also ignores
other alternatives for green energy.
For example, it says absolutely noth-
ing about nuclear or hydropower.
Let’s face it, 10 percent of our energy
today stills comes from hydropower,
and hydropower is clean. It leaves be-
hind no waste. It is considered one of
the most effective ways of producing
electricity. And yet it is absurd to be-
lieve that we can achieve zero net car-
bon emissions without dealing with nu-
clear or without dealing with hydro-
power as part of the mix. That is part
of the reality that needs to be brought
out here.
We have grown our economics. We
have cleaned our environment. We have
lowered the cost of living for so many
people.
We should not denigrate everything
that the current system is already
doing that for some people, for some
elitists, they simply want to try to ig-
nore that and ignore the fact that, if
we want to continue on this path, what
we need to do is empower people to be
able to come up with solutions on their
own. It is not going to happen by the
government telling people how to live
and what to think. We need to em-
power people, not empower the govern-
ment.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
for the opportunity of expressing that
idea again.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I want to
engage the gentleman in a colloquy.
The gentleman and I went on a codel
over to Europe. We saw Germany, Lith-
uania, and Norway. We saw the power
of the influence that our energy can ac-
tually provide, particularly in Lith-
uania.
Can the gentleman highlight that for
us?
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker,
one of the problems that Baltic coun-
tries have—Estonia, Latvia, and Lith-
uania—is they are right next-door to
the monolith Russia, that has used its
energy potential to blackmail and in-
timidate these other countries. Even
today, they have finally broken away
from their oil and gas dependency on
Russia. Their electrical grid is still
tied to Russia.
What Lithuania was able to do is im-
port a natural gas mobile station. They
were able to get off of the Russian de-
pendency so they could, once again,
have their own resources coming in
there.
Estonia does the same thing with
their oil shale. They have been able to
produce their own energy, which allows
them to have independence and not be
bullied by large countries, in this case,
by Russia.
That is one of the things we are
doing in what we are already doing.
That is one of the futures that we are
having. In fact, it is interesting that
some of the countries we visited that
were very proud of what they were
doing with alternative energy, they al-
ways have to have a backup system.
Mr. GOSAR. That is right.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. And that
backup system is based on coal. With-
out that, they could not guarantee
baseloads that they have to have just
to keep their countries going.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.040 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2791
March 25, 2019
Mr. GOSAR. Well, the first country
we visited was Germany, and they were
very proud of what they were getting
rid of in coal and nuclear; and yet their
baseload was going to be dependent
upon Russia, on Nord Stream 1 and 2—
absolutely crazy. We want to be less
dependent on Russia.
This whole country has gone through
this whole Russia this and Russiagate
that. So we want to see that depend-
ency being more entrepreneurial, and
the United States is perfectly suited
for that.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
guess what the gentleman is saying is,
if you want the economy to grow, if
you want people to be empowered, if
you want to find solutions not only to
environmental issues but also energy
issues, empower people to come up
with that. We are actually doing that.
America’s history is a history that is
positive. Empower that to go forward.
Don’t try and stop it with some other
elitist idea from the top-down theories.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I agree, ab-
solutely.
It also extends even far into our agri-
cultural aspects. Never before in the
world have we seen less aspects of pov-
erty. Today the lowest aspects around
the world are poverty; and at the same
time, we see the lowest incidence of
hunger. How is that possible? It is the
entrepreneurial farmer. We reproduce
more that we can supply around the
world.
And what do they need? They need
abundant energy. They need abundant
water. All of these things are plausible
because, once again, it is the entre-
preneur who actually solves these prob-
lems, not the government.
If the government can give all, it can
take all; and it has done so, whether it
be the Soviet Union, whether it be
Mao’s China, or whether it be the Ven-
ezuela experiment that is going dra-
matically wrong today. It never works
because you eventually run out of ev-
erybody else’s money.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker,
that is true.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, once again,
a lot of our proponents backstab us by
saying: Listen, we lack a vision.
America’s energy renaissance is the
backbone of our economy. We just
talked about it. It is a story of free-
dom, prosperity, and opportunity.
After decades of reliance on other
countries to meet our energy needs,
the U.S. Energy Information Adminis-
tration projects that America will ex-
port more energy than it imports,
starting in 2020. We are no longer de-
pendent on foreign sources like Russia
and Saudi Arabia.
The innovations of technology im-
provements associated with fracking
and horizontal drilling have allowed
shale resources, previously deemed un-
economical, to be developed and are
the main reason the U.S. was the world
leader in carbon emissions reductions.
We have got to say it again. As
Ranking Member BISHOP said, reduc-
tions in 2015, 2016, and 2017—that is
right, fracking that is demonized by
environmental extremists without jus-
tification, has proven to be the best en-
ergy solution for our environment.
Abundant oil and natural gas has re-
duced electricity bills, kept prices low,
and provided the largest share of U.S.
electric power generation in recent
years. The oil and gas industry sup-
ports more than 10.3 million jobs and
nearly 8 percent of our economy.
The United States is now the top en-
ergy producer, and the American
Dream is thriving. January 2019 saw
the 100th consecutive month of positive
job growth in America, the longest pe-
riod of continuous job growth on
record. The U.S. job market is strong,
and in December, employers posted 7.3
million open jobs—once again, a new
record.
Members of the Congressional West-
ern Caucus support personal responsi-
bility and less government interven-
tion in our daily lives and freedoms.
They defend property rights and be-
lieve that private ownership of prop-
erty is a fundamental right in America.
Our vision encourages innovation and
less burdensome mandates.
People want clean water. People
want clean air, and they are striving
for that. The people who depend on the
land to provide security for their fami-
lies and communities understand their
resources the best. States and munici-
palities are better suited to deal with
the local issues than distant, out-of-
touch Washington bureaucrats.
The caucus seeks to promote access
to our Nation’s energy and resources
potential, while pursuing a true all-of-
the-above energy approach that aims
to ensure that the U.S. is the global en-
ergy leader. We know how to do this
best. We ought to be doing it right.
Our vision utilizes the current energy
renaissance and the American energy
dominance policy currently being im-
plemented by the Trump administra-
tion in the State of Texas. Texas leads
the country in wind production.
According to the U.S. Department of
Energy, Texas had more generating ca-
pacity than any other State last year
and more installed wind power capac-
ity than all but five countries in the
world.
Once again, think that through.
Texas was the fifth largest in the world
in power production by wind. The coun-
try’s only large clean-capture coal fa-
cility is found in Texas. The Petra
Nova facility is the only carbon cap-
ture and storage coal-fired plant in the
United States, and it is only one of two
facilities that utilizes that technology
in the world.
Once again, American entrepreneurs
are at it again, making things better,
making things more achievable. Coal
generates baseload power that prevents
rolling blackouts when renewables fall
short in extreme weather. Most people
don’t understand that.
Alternative or intermittent power is
when the wind doesn’t blow and the
Sun doesn’t shine. In fact, you heard
President Trump at one of his speeches
talk about: Hey, honey, I would like to
watch television. Is the wind blowing?
If you didn’t have baseload power and
the wind wasn’t blowing, you couldn’t
watch television. So what baseload is,
it runs 24/7. That is called hydro-
electric. That is called natural gas.
That is called oil and coal. That is also
nuclear, one of the largest density en-
ergy productions all around, and we,
once again, could not do it without it.
According to the third quarter 2018
report from the Solar Energy Indus-
tries Association, Texas is poised to be-
come a nationwide leader in solar en-
ergy, with more than 4 gigawatts of ca-
pacity expected to be installed over the
next 5 years.
Now, think about this. Texas is the
fifth largest in both solar and wind,
once again, having a plethora of our
baseload energy in oil and gas and coal.
There are two operating nuclear power
plants in Texas, and my home State of
Arizona has the largest nuclear power
plant.
The U.S. Energy Information Admin-
istration previously reported that
Texas is among the top 10 States with
the greatest nuclear power generation
capacity in the country.
Mr. Speaker, the Congressional West-
ern Caucus’ alternative vision to the
vision currently being pursued by the
Trump administration and the great
State of Texas are concurrent. They
are opposite of the Green New Deal.
That is a pipe dream. If we go down
this Green New Deal path, the United
States will be walking in its own green
mile.
Now, Mr. Speaker, many of my con-
stituents continue to ask me: What is
actually in the Green New Deal?
Confusion has arisen, given that it is
light on details and Members ran from
the summary document put out by
Congresswoman OCASIO-CORTEZ’ office.
One significant piece of information
that my constituents asked me about
is whether the Green New Deal in-
cludes a jobs guarantee for everyone in
the United States, including those who
are unwilling to work.
As part of the frequently asked ques-
tions document that was released with
legislation, it was stated that eco-
nomic security would be provided for
those who ‘‘are unwilling to work.’’
Many of my constituents just can’t be-
lieve that that is actually in there and
an objective of the people pushing the
Green New Deal.
Staff have since retracted Represent-
ative OCASIO-CORTEZ’ frequently asked
questions document.
But the message I hope the American
people hear is: We know the motives
behind the Green New Deal and we
know how its proponents plan to carry
out its objectives. From ending air-
plane travel to shuttering down all nu-
clear power, hydropower, and even get-
ting rid of all natural gas, some people,
unfortunately, on the other side of the
aisle are threatening our way of life
and the American economy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.041 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2792 March 25, 2019
b 2030
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
the links for the two most frequently
asked questions documents, which I
have in my hand, that were released by
Congresswoman OCASIO-CORTEZ’s office
to the press and posted on her website.
The first link is: https://
westerncaucus.house.gov/uploadedfiles/
green-new-deal-
faqlprovidedltolnprlv2.pdf
The second link is: https://
web.archive.org/web/20190207191119/
https:/ocasio-cortez.house.gov/media/
blog-posts/green-new-deal-faq
Mr. Speaker, I want to focus on how
the Green New Deal will affect our ag-
riculture industry. It has been the life-
blood of our rural communities the
Western Caucus represents, and the
Green New Deal stands to decimate it.
The Green New Deal is nothing short of
an all-out attack on agriculture by the
socialist left.
Reading directly from the text of the
bill, the Green New Deal seeks to
eliminate ‘‘pollution and greenhouse
gas emissions from the agricultural
sector as much as is technologically
feasible.’’
We had a nice conversation with my
friend from Virginia (Mr. GRIFFITH).
The agriculture industry supports
more than 21 million jobs, 11 percent of
the U.S. jobs, according to the Farm
Bureau. Representative OCASIO-CORTEZ
has attacked agriculture, cows, ham-
burgers, and factory farming in push-
ing the Green New Deal. In fact, in the
fact sheet released by her office, it
mentions a desire to get rid of farting
cows.
OCASIO-CORTEZ doubled down on agri-
culture, cows, hamburgers, and factory
farming in an interview, stating, in the
Green New Deal, ‘‘what we talk about
is . . . that we need to take a look at
factory farming, period. It is wild. . . .
Maybe we shouldn’t be eating a ham-
burger for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
. . . We have to take a look at every-
thing.’’
Well, Mr. Speaker, the last time I
checked, this is a common bodily func-
tion of nearly every animal, and elimi-
nating animals for this reason would
mean an end to livestock in agri-
culture.
Land needed for agriculture is also
under assault under the Green New
Deal. In fact, when it comes to land
needed for agriculture, the agriculture,
energy, and transportation industries
are linked because of land needed to
build high-speed rail and solar wind
farms.
Farmland will likely need to be
seized by the Federal Government in
order to build tracks for the high-speed
rail and to build wind and solar farms.
How does that work going across an
ocean, I wonder? Sailboats. That would
be fun for those in Guam and Hawaii.
The elimination of farmland in order
to build these projects will cost us jobs
and put our food supply in jeopardy. As
I highlighted, in the world today is the
lowest poverty rate, the lowest rate
ever of people going unfed. It is unbe-
lievable.
The Green New Deal also aims to ban
groundwater mining by large-scale ag-
ribusinesses, making irrigation needed
to sustain this form of agriculture
truly impossible.
According to the think tank Data
Progress, the Green New Deal will rein-
state the Obama administration’s
WOTUS rule. This WOTUS rule by the
previous administration expanded the
definition of navigable waters beyond
any reasonable interpretation intended
by the Clean Water Act. It attempted
to assert national regulatory jurisdic-
tion over areas with even the least of
connections to water resources, includ-
ing man-made conveyances.
Farmers, ranchers, and property
owners suffer under this overreaching
land and water grab.
WOTUS contradicts the prior Su-
preme Court rulings and seeks to ex-
pand agency control over 60 percent of
our country’s streams and millions of
acres of wetlands that were previously
nonjurisdictional, once again empow-
ering the government, not the entre-
preneur and not the individual.
Mr. Speaker, clearly, the Green New
Deal would impose disastrous con-
sequences on our agricultural sector.
Ranchers and farmers would suffer sig-
nificant harm, and private property
rights would become a thing of the
past. America’s rural communities,
where I am from, and agricultural
economies, where I am also from, can’t
afford the Green New Deal. It should be
rejected on that basis.
Mr. Speaker, many Democrats are
supporting the Green New Deal, so let’s
take a look. While many of us laugh at
some of the policies in the Green New
Deal and think they are just ridicu-
lous, we must take them seriously,
given the large amount of Democratic
support for the Green New Deal. In
fact, the Green New Deal currently has
90 House cosponsors and 11 Senate co-
sponsors, including BERNIE SANDERS,
KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND, KAMALA HARRIS,
ELIZABETH WARREN, CORY BOOKER, and
AMY KLOBUCHAR.
There are 14 Democratic Presidential
candidates—14 of the current—who
have endorsed the Green New Deal, in-
cluding Senators SANDERS, GILLIBRAND,
HARRIS, WARREN, BOOKER, and KLO-
BUCHAR; former Representative Beto
O’Rourke; Washington Governor Jay
Inslee; Representative ERIC SWALWELL;
Representative TULSI GABBARD; former
Representative John Delaney; author
Marianne Williamson; former HUD
Secretary Julio Castro; and South
Bend mayor Pete Buttigieg. Once
again, everybody is supporting some-
thing that is not possible.
Mr. Speaker, I would also like to now
focus on the Green New Deal’s effect
and how it would affect our transpor-
tation system. The Green New Deal
calls for the abolition of all gas and
diesel engine vehicles and replacing
them with electric vehicles, mass tran-
sit, and high-speed trains.
Once again, this would require bat-
teries, something that is not coming
very soon, particularly with the other
side’s obstinance in trying to stop min-
ing for these rare earths that are re-
quired for these batteries.
In the forum that the Western Cau-
cus held last month, we heard from
several witnesses who spoke about the
effects of the Green New Deal and how
they would have an effect on our trans-
portation infrastructure.
To quote Thomas Pyle: ‘‘The Green
New Deal also envisions a massive
build-out of high-speed rail across the
country. High-speed rail, in order to
reach said high speeds, must travel in a
virtually straight line. In a wealthy,
developed society like the United
States, carving these straight lines
means taking the homes and land in
the path. There is just no way to even
contemplate high-speed rail without
sweeping use of eminent domain.’’
Sweeping eminent domain will be a
complete infringement of the property
rights of every American citizen and
could easily be abused. As we have
seen, certain existing high-speed light
rail projects such as the bullet train
project in California have turned into
quagmires that have cost the taxpayers
billions of dollars with no return.
One of the main modes of shipping
products into our country is by boat. In
fact, most of the bulk commodities im-
ported into this country are trans-
ported by ship. The large shipping ves-
sels are powered by—you guessed it—
diesel-burning engines, which there are
currently no replacements for.
Are we just going to scrap one of the
main modes of transporting products
into this country? If so, what are we
going to replace it with?
Along the same lines of ship trans-
portation, what implications does the
Green New Deal have for air travel?
One would assume it would suffer the
same fate.
How would we see our colleagues
from Hawaii, Mr. Speaker? For exam-
ple, the dean of the House, Mr. YOUNG
from Alaska, would he have to take a
train all the way to Washington, D.C.,
from Alaska? How would that affect
the water, the air, and also the critters
along the way?
The airline industry employs 600,000
people. The Green New Deal would de-
stroy these very jobs. The Green New
Deal aims to get rid of all combustion
engines. This means getting rid of all
hotrods, classic cars, big trucks, trac-
tors, large SUVs, and, yes, even mom’s
van.
Mr. Speaker, the U.S. was the world
leader in emissions reductions in 2015,
2016, and 2017. We discussed this earlier.
This was the renaissance of oil and gas
production and the clean use of that. If
we allow American innovation to con-
tinue to flourish and to continue to
embrace a truly all-of-the-above en-
ergy strategy, we will continue to lead
the world in emissions reductions with-
out radically changing our way of life,
being provocative on how we change
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.044 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2793
March 25, 2019
the rest of the world, and we won’t get
rid of our classic cars.
Mr. Speaker, the Green New Deal is a
proposal that should not be taken
lightly. The Green New Deal would
codify into law a one-size-fits-all gov-
ernment healthcare system, offer free
college for all, and create a Federal job
guarantee.
According to figures released by the
American Action Forum, the Green
New Deal would cost every household
$600,000 over 10 years.
The Green New Deal will implement
the radical socialist utopian idea of
Medicare for All, which would cost
American taxpayers $36 trillion over a
10-year period. That means it would be
Medicare for no one. The cost it would
impose on the taxpayers would be so
unsustainable that the Medicare for All
proposal, once again, would be blamed
and be renamed Medicare for None.
The Green New Deal would cause
harm to the American worker. This
fact is even recognized by the AFL–
CIO, which has come out strongly
against the Green New Deal. They rec-
ognize that the only outcome of this
bill is to take away good-paying jobs
from their members and cause harm to
their families.
The United States is currently under-
going an energy renaissance, as we
talked about earlier, with natural gas
leading the way. The natural gas indus-
try has brought millions of jobs to this
country and helped us reduce our car-
bon footprint in 3 straight years, start-
ing in 2015.
Science shows that the Green New
Deal will have a negligible impact on
its stated goal of fighting climate
change. In fact, the Green New Deal
would actually cause climate change
and emissions to worsen as energy pro-
duction would leave the United States
and go to countries like China and
India that don’t have the same envi-
ronmental regulations and standards
as the United States, producing more
emissions in the process than if we did
so cleanly and responsibly like we do
here in the United States.
This legislation only stands to lower
temperatures by 0.137 degrees Celsius
by 2100, according to the same metrics
used by the United Nations’ Intergov-
ernmental Panel on Climate Change.
This bill completely ignores the re-
ality that the biggest sources of carbon
dioxide are developing countries. The
sponsors of the Green New Deal may
say that the U.S. can become a leader
in exporting new renewable tech-
nologies in the developing world, but
would a developing nation give up
cheap and abundant energy in return
for a more expensive form of energy,
Mr. Speaker?
In fact, I quoted this Quillette article
about how renewables can’t fight cli-
mate change. Everyone who is engaged
in a renewable-type energy sector has
seen their energy portfolios go up three
times—much more expensive—three
times.
Mr. Speaker, the Western Caucus
looks forward to contributing to the
debate on this important subject, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 41 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, March 26, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morn-
ing-hour debate.
h
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1477, the Russian-Venezuelan Threat Mitigation Act, would
have no significant effect on direct spending or revenues, and therefore, the budgetary effects of such bill are estimated
as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 1839, the Medicaid Services Investment and Accountability Act of 2019,
for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 1839
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2010–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ................................................................................................................................................................... 32 15 16 2 5 2 ¥2 ¥6 ¥15 ¥21 ¥28 71 ¥1
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
434. A letter from the General Counsel,
Federal Housing Finance Agency, transmit-
ting the Agency’s interim final rule — Mar-
gin and Capital Requirements for Covered
Swap Entities (RIN: 2590-AB02) received
March 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
435. A letter from the Director, Regula-
tions Policy and Management Staff, FDA,
Department of Health and Human Services,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Standards for the Growing, Harvesting,
Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human
Consumption; Extension of Compliance
Dates for Subpart E [Docket No.: FDA-2011-
N-0921] (RIN: 0910-AH93) received March 19,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
436. A letter from the Chief of Staff, Media
Bureau, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting the Commission’s final
rule — Amendment of Section 73.622(i) Post
Transition Table of DTV Allotments
(Cookeville and Franklin, Tennessee) [MB
Docket No.: 18-383] (RM-11822) received
March 19, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
437. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the Department’s report
on progress toward a negotiated solution of
the Cyprus question covering the period of
June 1, 2018, through July 31, 2018, pursuant
to Sec. 620C(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961, as amended, and in accordance with
Sec. 1(a)(6) of Executive Order 13313; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
438. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Cum-
berland River, Kentucky [Docket Number:
USCG-2019-0127] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received
March 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
439. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Security Zone; Cor-
pus Christi Ship Channel, Corpus Christi, TX
[Docket Number: USCG-2019-0128] (RIN: 1625-
AA87) received March 15, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
440. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Regulations and Administrative
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Removal of Regu-
lated Navigation Areas, Safety Zones, Secu-
rity Zones, and Special Local Regulations
within District 7 [Docket No.: USCG-2018-
0231] received March 15, 2019, pursuant to 5
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K25MR7.045 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2794 March 25, 2019
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
441. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Navigation and Navigable
Waters; Technical, Organizational, and Con-
forming Amendments [Docket No.: USCG-
2018-1049] received March 15, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
442. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Lower
Mississippi River, Port Gibson, MS [Docket
Number: USCG-2019-0126] (RIN: 1625-AA00) re-
ceived March 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
443. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Regulations and Administrative
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s temporary final rule — Safety
Zone; Oregon Inlet, Dare County, NC [Docket
Number: USCG-2018-1065] (RIN: 1625-AA00) re-
ceived March 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
444. A letter from the Attorney, U.S. Coast
Guard, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Drawbridge Operation Regulation; Mill
Basin, Brooklyn, NY [Docket No.: USCG-
2018-1032] (RIN: 1625-AA09) received March 15,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
445. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Embraer S.A. Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0905; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
115-AD; Amendment 39-19573; AD 2019-03-21]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
446. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Dassault Aviation Airplanes [Docket
No.: FAA-2018-0643; Product Identifier 2018-
NM-084-AD; Amendment 39-19572; AD 2019-03-
20] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
447. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0957; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
102-AD; Amendment 39-19570; AD 2019-03-18]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
448. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus Helicopters Deutschland GmbH
Helicopters [Docket No.: FAA-2018-0336;
Product Identifier 2017-SW-130-AD; Amend-
ment 39-19588; AD 2019-05-06] (RIN: 2120-AA64)
received March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
449. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Leonardo S.p.A. Helicopters [Docket
No.: FAA-2019-0092; Product Identifier 2019-
SW-022-AD; Amendment 39-19585; AD 2019-05-
03] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
450. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; MD Helicopters, Inc. (MDHI), Heli-
copters [Docket No.: FAA-2018-0991; Product
Identifier 2017-SW-050-AD; Amendment 39-
19586; AD 2019-05-04] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received
March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
451. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-1003; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
133-AD; Amendment 39-19567; AD 2019-03-15]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
452. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0904; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
108-AD; Amendment 39-19575; AD 2019-03-23]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
453. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Carrizo Springs, TX [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0940; Airspace Docket No.: 18-ASW-
15] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received March 21, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
454. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Saab AB, Saab Aeronautics (Formerly
Known as Saab AB, Saab Aerosystems) Air-
planes [Docket No.: FAA-2018-0964; Product
Identifier 2018-NM-127-AD; Amendment 39-
19571; AD 2019-03-19] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received
March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
455. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Auburn, AL [Docket No.: FAA-2018-
0987; Airspace Docket No.: 18-ASO-19] (RIN:
2120-AA66) received March 21, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
456. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of Class E
Airspace; Coushatta, LA [Docket No.: FAA-
2018-0787; Airspace Docket No.: 18-ASW-12]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
457. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Rolls-Royce plc Turbofan Engines
[Docket No.: FAA-2019-0056; Product Identi-
fier 2017-NE-29-AD; Amendment 39-19584; AD
2019-05-02] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
458. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Pratt & Whitney Turbofan Engines
[Docket No.: FAA-2018-0624; Product Identi-
fier 2013-NE-24-AD; Amendment 39-19583; AD
2019-05-01] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
459. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0806; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
056-AD; Amendment 39-19590; AD 2019-05-08]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
460. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica
S.A. (Embraer) Airplanes [Docket No.: FAA-
2019-0118; Product Identifier 2018-NM-143-AD;
Amendment 39-19582; AD 2019-03-30] (RIN:
2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
461. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes [Docket
No.: FAA-2018-0710; Product Identifier 2018-
NM-079-AD; Amendment 39-19574; AD 2019-03-
22] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
462. A letter from the Director, Office of
Regulation Policy and Management, Office
of the Secretary (00REG), Department of
Veterans Affairs, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Fertility Counseling and
Treatment for Certain Veterans and Spouses
(RIN: 2900-AP94) received March 19, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
463. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s Major
final regulations — Qualified Business In-
come Deduction [TD 9847] (RIN: 1545-BO71)
received March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L25MR7.000 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2795
March 25, 2019
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mrs. TORRES of California: Committee on
Rules. House Resolution 252. Resolution pro-
viding for consideration of the bill (H.R. 7) to
amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938
to provide more effective remedies to vic-
tims of discrimination in the payment of
wages on the basis of sex, and for other pur-
poses, and providing for consideration of the
resolution (H. Res. 124) expressing opposition
to banning service in the Armed Forces by
openly transgender individuals (Rept. 116–19).
Referred to the House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself,
Mr. POSEY, Mr. KELLY of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr. COURT-
NEY, Mr. HOLDING, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. CALVERT, Ms. TITUS, Mr.
BUDD, Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. EMMER,
Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. HARRIS, Mr.
WOMACK, Mr. MAST, Mr. HUNTER, Mr.
WILLIAMS, Mr. TURNER, Mrs. MURPHY,
Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. BABIN, Mr.
HUIZENGA, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. BISHOP
of Georgia, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, and Mr. HAGEDORN):
H.R. 1854. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the
Food and Drug Administration’s jurisdiction
over certain tobacco products, and to protect
jobs and small businesses involved in the
sale, manufacturing, and distribution of tra-
ditional and premium cigars; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
(for himself, Ms. FOXX of North Caro-
lina, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. COMER, Mr.
WALKER, Mr. BANKS, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. BUDD,
Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. MCCLINTOCK,
Mr. BYRNE, and Mr. ROONEY of Flor-
ida):
H.R. 1855. A bill to provide protections for
workers with respect to their right to select
or refrain from selecting representation by a
labor organization; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Ms. WATERS (for herself, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. GREEN of
Texas, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. ADAMS, Ms.
ESHOO, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, Mr. FOSTER, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Mr. CRIST, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Mr. HECK, Mr. CASE, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. MENG, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. ROUDA,
Ms. OMAR, Mr. HIMES, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. GARCÍA
of Illinois, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. VARGAS,
Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Ms. HILL of
California, Ms. DEAN, Ms. KAPTUR,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. WELCH, Ms. TLAIB,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
LYNCH, Mr. COHEN, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Ms. GABBARD, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. CLAY, and
Ms. CLARKE of New York):
H.R. 1856. A bill to provide a path to end
homelessness in the United States, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on the Budget, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Ms. NORTON, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. FOSTER, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. POCAN,
Ms. MOORE, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
LYNCH, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. SOTO, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. SCHIFF, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Mr. COOPER, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. PAL-
LONE, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. AGUILAR,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MEEKS, Mr.
RASKIN, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. MENG, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. RUSH, Mr. WELCH, Mr.
MOULTON, Ms. OMAR, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. TONKO, Ms. SHALALA,
Ms. WILD, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. HIGGINS
of New York, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Ms.
HOULAHAN, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mrs. MUR-
PHY, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. TITUS, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Mr. HUFFMAN,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. HIMES, Ms. DELBENE, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. SCANLON,
and Mr. MCEACHIN):
H.R. 1857. A bill to establish in the Bureau
of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor of
the Department of State a Special Envoy for
the Human Rights of LGBTI Peoples, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Mr. BUDD (for himself and Mr. ROO-
NEY of Florida):
H.R. 1858. A bill to preserve open competi-
tion and Federal Government neutrality to-
wards the labor relations of Federal Govern-
ment contractors on Federal and federally
funded construction projects, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself and Mr.
BRINDISI):
H.R. 1859. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for parent sav-
ings accounts, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Mr.
SCALISE, Mr. LONG, Mr. GUTHRIE, and
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio):
H.R. 1860. A bill to prohibit the Federal
Communications Commission from regu-
lating the rates charged for broadband inter-
net access service; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 1861. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to conduct a study to determine
the relationship between school start times
and adolescent health, well-being, and per-
formance; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia (for
himself, Mr. BUDD, Mr. BIGGS, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. MEADOWS, Mrs. LESKO,
Mr. BANKS, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. NOR-
MAN, Mr. DUNCAN, and Mr. WALKER):
H.R. 1862. A bill to abolish the Federal In-
surance Office of the Department of the
Treasury, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself, Mr.
TURNER, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. KIM, Mrs.
LURIA, Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, Ms.
DEAN, and Mr. WELCH):
H.R. 1863. A bill to require the Secretary of
Defense to provide blood testing for fire-
fighters of the Department of Defense to de-
termine potential exposure to perfluoroalkyl
and polyfluoroalkyl substances, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Ms. NORTON (for herself, Mr. NAD-
LER, Ms. SPEIER, and Ms. DELAURO):
H.R. 1864. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to prohibit certain
practices by employers relating to restric-
tions on discussion of employees’ and pro-
spective employees’ salary and benefit his-
tory, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, Mr. PALLONE, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. BRENDAN
F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. KILMER, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Mr. KING of New York, Mr. NORMAN,
Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr. COOK, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mr. BACON, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
LYNCH, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. OLSON,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr. NOR-
CROSS, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. KINZINGER,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. COSTA, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
EMMER, Mr. GAETZ, Ms. STEFANIK,
Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr. SMITH
of New Jersey, Mr. KATKO, Mr. ROD-
NEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. HICE of
Georgia, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. MITCH-
ELL, Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. HUN-
TER, Mr. COHEN, Mr. KIND, Mr. ENGEL,
Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mr. BOST, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. VELA, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. GIBBS, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr.
CALVERT, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of
Puerto Rico, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
FOSTER, Mr. HIMES, Mr. YOHO, Mr.
RUIZ, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. WELCH,
Mr. BERA, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, Mr. COMER, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. POSEY, Mr. LATTA, Mr.
COLE, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. STEWART, Mr. MAST, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. GUTH-
RIE, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. SABLAN, Miss
RICE of New York, Ms. MATSUI, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Mr. SMITH of Mis-
souri, Mr. NUNES, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. SAN NICO-
LAS, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms. HILL of
California, Mrs. AXNE, Mr. SPANO,
Mr. GUEST, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. BRIN-
DISI, Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico, Mrs. MILLER, and Mr. HARDER of
California):
H.R. 1865. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint a coin in commemora-
tion of the opening of the National Law En-
forcement Museum in the District of Colum-
bia, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself and
Mr. RUTHERFORD):
H.R. 1866. A bill to amend section 3606 of
title 18, United States Code, to grant proba-
tion officers authority to arrest hostile third
parties who obstruct or impede a probation
officer in the performance of official duties;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.013 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2796 March 25, 2019
By Ms. WILD (for herself, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Ms. NORTON, and Mr. HASTINGS):
H.R. 1867. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow miscellaneous
itemized deductions subject to a 2-percent
floor and to reinstate the overall limitation
on itemized deductions; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself and
Mr. NORMAN):
H.J. Res. 53. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States to require that the Supreme
Court be composed of not more than nine
justices; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for him-
self, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. GREEN of Ten-
nessee, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. MOONEY of
West Virginia, Mr. PERRY, Mr. CAL-
VERT, Mr. MCCLINTOCK, and Mr. KING
of Iowa):
H. Res. 253. A resolution recognizing that
it is the sense of the United States House of
Representatives that Socialism poses a sig-
nificant threat to the freedom, liberty, and
economic prosperity; to the Committee on
Financial Services, and in addition to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr.
GRAVES of Missouri, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Ms.
DEAN, Ms. NORTON, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
WEXTON, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WILD, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. SOTO, Mr. COLE, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. BRADY, Mr. BOST, Ms.
MENG, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. WILSON
of Florida, Mr. SABLAN, Mr. GUEST,
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. PALLONE, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Ms.
PLASKETT, Mr. SIRES, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, Mr. HIMES, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Mr. COHEN, Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr. MAST,
Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. BACON, Mr. YARMUTH,
Ms. DELBENE, Mr. COMER, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Okla-
homa, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida, Mr. PRICE of North
Carolina, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
BYRNE, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Mr. BRINDISI, Mrs. MCBATH, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Mr. CROW, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
STAUBER, and Ms. LEE of California):
H. Res. 254. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of the week of March 25
through March 29, 2019, as ‘‘Public Schools
Week’’; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida:
H.R. 1854.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
Article 1, Section 8, Clause18
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee:
H.R. 1855.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
the authority enumerated in Clause 3 of
Section 8 of Article I of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. WATERS:
H.R. 1856.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 5 and Clause 18
of the United States Constitution
By Mr. LOWENTHAL:
H.R. 1857.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
‘‘The Congress shall have power to dispose
of and make all needful rules and regulations
respecting the territory or other property
belonging to the United States; and nothing
in this Constitution shall be so construed as
to prejudice any claims of the United States,
or of any particular state.’’
By Mr. BUDD:
H.R. 1858.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 1859.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the U.S.
Constitution: The Congress shall have the
Power To law and collect Taxes, Duties, Im-
posts and Excises, to pay the Debts and pro-
vide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States.
By Mr. KINZINGER:
H.R. 1860.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 (Commerce
Clause) and Clause 18 (Necessary and Proper
Clause)
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 1861.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8, clauses 1 and 3.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H.R. 1862.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H.R. 1863.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article One, Section Eight
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 1864.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 3 of section 8 of article I of the Con-
stitution.
By Mr. PASCRELL:
H.R. 1865.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. PASCRELL:
H.R. 1866.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. WILD:
H.R. 1867.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Sections 1, 7, and 8 of the Con-
stitution of the United States of America.
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.J. Res. 53.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 5 of the Constitution authorizes
Congress to propose amendments to the Con-
stitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 6: Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. SPEIER, and Mrs.
MCBATH.
H.R. 33: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 35: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 40: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 55: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 94: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 101: Mr. GAETZ, Mr. CARTER of Geor-
gia, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, and Mr. WEB-
STER of Florida.
H.R. 129: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 141: Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. CROW, Ms.
DEAN, Mr. CRIST, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York, Ms. SCANLON, Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. CLOUD,
and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 155: Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 194: Mr. ADERHOLT.
H.R. 203: Mr. BALDERSON and Mr. JOHN W.
ROSE of Tennessee.
H.R. 230: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 285: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 303: Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
and Mr. KIM.
H.R. 306: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 307: Mr. POSEY, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, and Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 372: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 397: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 400: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN and Mr.
RASKIN.
H.R. 446: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 473: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 500: Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
SMUCKER, and Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 510: Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. WEBER of Texas,
and Mr. DUNCAN.
H.R. 530: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. DEFAZIO,
and Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 535: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Ms. MOORE, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
and Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 541: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 553: Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr.
BUCHANAN, Mr. BURCHETT, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. GOH-
MERT, Mr. FERGUSON, and Mr. DUNCAN.
H.R. 555: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 576: Ms. KAPTUR and Ms. BASS.
H.R. 582: Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 585: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 605: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 609: Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 628: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana.
H.R. 641: Mr. MCNERNEY and Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 663: Mr. COURTNEY, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Mr. KEATING, Mr. LAMB, and Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 674: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 677: Mrs. CRAIG, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
WELCH, and Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 712: Ms. HAALAND and Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 716: Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 717: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 719: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 721: Mr. BUCHANAN and Mr. ROSE of
New York.
H.R. 724: Mrs. CRAIG and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 728: Mr. COOPER.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L25MR7.100 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2797
March 25, 2019
H.R. 737: Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. HUNTER, Ms. GRANGER,
and Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 748: Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. VAN DREW, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. COMER, and Mr. HUIZENGA.
H.R. 763: Mr. ROUDA and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 788: Mr. HUNTER.
H.R. 810: Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, and Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 827: Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 832: Mr. DELGADO and Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 847: Mr. KILMER and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 872: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 877: Mr. WITTMAN and Mr. HICE of
Georgia.
H.R. 908: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 915: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 916: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 919: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 920: Mr. WALTZ, Mr. FITZPATRICK, and
Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 935: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. CLAY, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. KELLY
of Illinois, and Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 936: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 938: Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 943: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. STEVENS,
and Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 945: Mr. AGUILAR and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 949: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 1001: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 1004: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 1005: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia and Mr.
CARBAJAL.
H.R. 1007: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 1010: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1024: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1030: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1044: Mr. STEIL, Mr. WALDEN, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ,
Ms. SLOTKIN, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. STANTON, Mr.
WOMACK, Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. KILDEE, Mrs.
LEE of Nevada, Mrs. TRAHAN, and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1046: Ms. FUDGE.
H.R. 1050: Ms. GABBARD and Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut.
H.R. 1076: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Ms. PRESSLEY, and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 1078: Mr. CUELLAR and Mr. GARCÍA of
Illinois.
H.R. 1098: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 1108: Mrs. AXNE, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr.
CARTER of Georgia, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. FLORES,
Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. KATKO, Mrs. LURIA,
Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Ms.
SCANLON, Mr. STEWART, Mrs. TRAHAN, and
Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1114: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. LEE of
California, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCNERNEY,
Ms. MOORE, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. PORTER,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. SARBANES, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms. WILD, Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida, Mr. RASKIN, and Mr. CUM-
MINGS.
H.R. 1115: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. MCNERNEY, Ms. MOORE, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, and Mr.
RASKIN.
H.R. 1116: Ms. CLARKe of New York, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. LEE of California, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, Mr. MCNERNEY,
Ms. MOORE, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
NORTON, and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1126: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 1134: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 1135: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 1140: Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr. LAMB,
and Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 1149: Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. CONNOLLY, and
Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1154: Ms. DEAN, Mr. WELCH, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. SOTO, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and
Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 1163: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 1168: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1175: Ms. TITUS, Mr. YARMUTH, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. GROTHMAN, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada, Mr. OLSON, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, and Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 1223: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1225: Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. EMMER, Ms.
GRANGER, and Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 1226: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. RYAN, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. BOST,
and Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 1228: Mr. KING of New York, Mr. SEN-
SENBRENNER, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. WEBER of Texas, and Ms. BASS.
H.R. 1240: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 1244: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1251: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1257: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 1265: Mr. WATKINS and Ms. CHENEY.
H.R. 1266: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia and Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 1306: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 1307: Ms. JACKSON LEE and Mr. HARD-
ER of California.
H.R. 1309: Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, and Mr.
LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 1314: Ms. PLASKETT.
H.R. 1327: Ms. BASS, Mr. STIVERS, and Mr.
BOST.
H.R. 1328: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. CASTEN
of Illinois, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, and Mr.
HARDER of California.
H.R. 1339: Mr. ALLEN.
H.R. 1346: Ms. DELBENE, Mr. ROSE of New
York, and Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 1364: Mr. TRONE, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
GARAMENDI, and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1366: Mrs. LESKO and Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 1374: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 1379: Mr. EMMER, Mr. UPTON, and Mr.
VAN DREW.
H.R. 1380: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1386: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1393: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Ms. JOHN-
SON of Texas.
H.R. 1394: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1406: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. TIPTON,
Mr. LAMBORN, and Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio.
H.R. 1412: Mr. RATCLIFFE.
H.R. 1423: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER and Mr.
QUIGLEY.
H.R. 1425: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. SCHRIER, Mrs. LEE of Nevada,
Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. ALLRED, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. HILL
of California, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
BERA, and Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 1426: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 1437: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 1452: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
GROTHMAN, and Mr. SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 1469: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 1477: Mr. SIRES, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
SHERMAN, and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1495: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 1502: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 1507: Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. OCASIO-COR-
TEZ, Ms. MOORE, and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 1528: Mr. COLE and Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 1534: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 1545: Mr. BANKS, Mr. KELLY of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. CONAWAY, and Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 1549: Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. OCASIO-COR-
TEZ, and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1572: Mr. DELGADO and Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 1587: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 1588: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 1592: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1595: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 1596: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 1601: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 1605: Mrs. MILLER, Mr. GAETZ, and Mr.
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 1616: Ms. KAPTUR and Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 1622: Mr. ENGEL, Ms. GABBARD, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. LAMB, and Ms.
MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 1629: Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 1638: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1641: Mr. KIM, Mr. HUDSON, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. WALDEN, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr. LAWSON
of Florida, and Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 1643: Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. SHALALA, Ms.
TLAIB, and Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 1644: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, Mr. CLAY, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. MEEKS,
Mr. KIND, Mr. CROW, Mrs. CRAIG, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. PANETTA, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. HIMES, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms.
SPANBERGER, and Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1646: Mr. GARAMENDI, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
DEAN, and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1678: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 1682: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
GRIJALVA, and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 1687: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1688: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1695: Ms. MOORE, Ms. CLARK of Massa-
chusetts, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. COSTA, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr. STIV-
ERS, Mr. COMER, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. MEUSER,
Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. REED, Mr. KELLY of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. COURTNEY,
Ms. WILD, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1702: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 1705: Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, and Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 1706: Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. STIVERS, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 1707: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Ms.
WEXTON, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, and Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 1709: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
PAPPAS, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. DEGETTE, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. SMITH
of Washington, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. PETERS, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. BEYER, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Mr. WELCH, and Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 1711: Ms. HILL of California and Mr.
GOLDEN.
H.R. 1712: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1714: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 1717: Ms. MOORE, Mr. EVANS, Mr.
MOULTON, Ms. DEGETTE, Ms. NORTON, and
Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 1730: Mr. GIANFORTE, Ms. PINGREE, Ms.
STEFANIK, Miss RICE of New York, Mr. COOK,
and Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 1734: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1735: Mr. ROSE of New York and Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 1741: Mr. EMMER.
H.R. 1748: Mr. LAMB, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. RYAN,
and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1753: Mr. NORMAN, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
WALKER, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. MOONEY of West
Virginia, and Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 1766: Ms. BONAMICI and Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 1767: Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 1770: Mr. CHABOT, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
ABRAHAM, and Mr. FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 1784: Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. HIMES, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, and Mr. PRICE of North Caro-
lina.
H.R. 1792: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1817: Mr. HICE of Georgia and Mr. KING
of Iowa.
H.R. 1830: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 1834: Mr. CASE and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 1837: Mr. ENGEL, Mr. MCCAUL, Mrs.
LOWEY, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.017 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2798 March 25, 2019
MEADOWS, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COĹON of Puerto
Rico, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. GOODEN, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Ms.
FRANKEL.
H.R. 1839: Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. GUTHRIE, Ms.
CASTOR of Florida, Mr. BILIRAKIS, and Mr.
TAYLOR.
H.R. 1850: Mr. SHERMAN and Mr. ZELDIN.
H.J. Res. 7: Ms. ESHOO.
H.J. Res. 23: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.J. Res. 35: Ms. STEVENS.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. MALINOWSKI and Ms.
SHALALA.
H.J. Res. 48: Ms. MATSUI, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. DELBENE, and Mr. CART-
WRIGHT.
H.J. Res. 52: Mr. NORMAN and Mr. JOHNSON
of Louisiana.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H. Res. 60: Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. KHANNA, and Ms.
LEE of California.
H. Res. 107: Mr. TURNER.
H. Res. 109: Mr. PASCRELL.
H. Res. 110: Mr. SHIMKUS.
H. Res. 114: Ms. WATERS.
H. Res. 124: Mrs. LURIA, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Mr. LEVIN of California, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Ms. STEVENS, Mr. KATKO, and Mr. CASTRO of
Texas.
H. Res. 141: Mr. FLORES.
H. Res. 152: Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
MEEKS, and Mr. WELCH.
H. Res. 160: Mr. BALDERSON.
H. Res. 171: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H. Res. 173: Mr. COOK.
H. Res. 197: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H. Res. 219: Mr. VELA.
H. Res. 220: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. SIRES, Ms.
BASS, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. RUSH, and Mr. DEUTCH.
H. Res. 221: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. SIRES, Ms.
BASS, and Mr. MEEKS.
H. Res. 222: Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. SIRES, Ms.
BASS, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. MEEKS, Mr. VELA, Mr. KEATING, and Mr.
TRONE.
H. Res. 230: Mr. HIMES and Ms. BASS.
H. Res. 231: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Mr. RASKIN, and Mr. HIMES.
H. Res. 238: Ms. OMAR, Mr. HIMES, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, and Mr. DEUTCH.
H. Res. 246: Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. SHERMAN, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Ms. BONAMICI, Miss RICE of New
York, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. BERA,
Mr. GOODEN, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Ms. MENG, Ms.
HILL of California, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms.
STEFANIK, and Mr. BALDERSON.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR7.022 H25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1919
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, MARCH 25, 2019 No. 51
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
O Lord God, the almighty and the
all-wise, Your judgments and ways are
past finding out.
Bless our Senators with strength suf-
ficient for today’s challenges, illu-
minating their paths with Your light.
May they walk in the way of integrity
and sacrifice. Lord, let Your power pu-
rify their thoughts as Your truth
guides their words. Teach them to
cheerfully do Your will, surrounding
them with the shield of Your provi-
dential love. Use them to fulfill Your
purposes for our Nation and humanity.
We pray in Your powerful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona,
to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Ninth Circuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
MIDWESTERN FLOODS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today to share a mes-
sage from Iowa’s heartland.
As you know, millions of Americans
in the middle of the country are experi-
encing catastrophic flooding. My home
State of Iowa and our neighbors in Ne-
braska are particularly hard hit, and it
will affect others downriver of the Mis-
souri and Mississippi Rivers.
I want to thank the Trump adminis-
tration for its swift response on Satur-
day to approve the expedited requests
for a major disaster declaration made
by Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds Thurs-
day evening. The flooding has caused
tremendous damage, impacting more
than two-thirds of Iowa’s 99 counties.
The Federal disaster proclamation will
trigger emergency assistance to 56 of
those counties so far. Those would be
the counties in blue on the map here.
Governor Reynolds’ team has been in
the trenches, working hand in hand
with local officials and county emer-
gency coordinators. They estimated
damages so far across our entire State
to be $1.6 billion. The damages esti-
mated for agriculture are $214 million;
damages to homes, $481 million; and
levee repairs, $525 million.
By all accounts and every possible
metric, the damages and devastation
are overwhelming. Yet, at the very
same time, the legendary mythology of
America’s heartland and its people is
rooted in truth. The road to recovery
will be long, grueling, and at times
gruesome, but I am confident that the
grit and resilience of Iowans and their
fellow midwesterners will prevail.
Over the last week, we have heard re-
markable stories of neighbor helping
neighbor and neighbors helping total
strangers. Residents of all ages and dif-
fering abilities rubbed elbows to bag
sand to save a water treatment facility
in their small town. First responders
and Good Samaritans rescued people
stranded in their homes. Farmers
moved their neighbor’s grain and live-
stock to higher ground. Volunteers
rolled up their sleeves to serve hot
meals and deliver water. Generous
Americans across our country opened
their wallets to donate money, food,
water, hygiene products, and medical
supplies. Iowa farmers who were not
wiped out by the floods are sending
truckloads of much needed hay to live-
stock producers and ranchers in Ne-
braska.
These stories offer a glimmer of sun-
shine in the darkest hours of the 2019
floods. You might say that we are expe-
riencing an unwelcome twist of March
Madness along the Missouri River. De-
spite being mired in muck and mud, it
is reassuring to see the full-court press
and gritty resilience of midwesterners.
Make no mistake—the catastrophic
damages to private property, farmland,
Main Street businesses, public utili-
ties, and critical infrastructure, includ-
ing wells, roads, bridges, and railways,
have extended beyond the capability of
local and State government.
Aerial footage of our State makes en-
tire communities and farmsteads look
like an island surrounded by an ocean.
You can see some of that here in this
photo that was taken just last week.
You see here a small community along
the Missouri River. This is the town of
Pacific Junction, which is located in
the southwestern corner of the State in
Mills County. Its entire population was
forced to evacuate. As you can see from
this photo, the rooftops of homes ap-
pear to be floating in the muddy waters
of a Monopoly board.
I ask my colleagues here in the Sen-
ate and I ask Americans listening at
home to put yourselves in the shoes of
those evacuated from their homes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.000 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1920 March 25, 2019
Imagine if this were your home soak-
ing in unsanitary water for days on
end. Consider for a moment the dam-
ages to your furniture, clothes, appli-
ances, and your most prized posses-
sions. Think how much it would cost to
replace those items. Now add up the
countless hours of hard work it would
take to clean up the mess, mud, muck,
and mold once the water finally re-
cedes.
I have another photo here I want you
to look at. Let’s now turn to a photo
taken near Pacific Junction.
I thank Larry Winum of Glenwood,
IA, a constituent and a friend, for shar-
ing these photos.
Just think of the small businesses
impacted by the floods. The photo here
of a motel illustrates how flooding can
wash away the livelihoods of business
owners and their employees. This par-
ticular business will indefinitely have
zero occupancy. Even if the roads were
open, this business would need a floor-
to-ceiling refurbishment to replace
beds, linens, carpets, and towels, and
most likely even significant plumbing
and electrical work.
I want to show a photo of Main
Street in Hamburg, IA. This commu-
nity was hard hit in 2011. I was there in
2011. It is worse now. You can see it is
underwater in 2019.
Let’s examine how the flooding has
affected our farmers. As a lifelong
farmer, I know exactly what farmers
across my State are feeling at this
time of the year. They get very antsy
and keep constant watch on the weath-
er, soil temperatures, and planting con-
ditions for their seed. They have or-
dered seeds and fertilizers. These farm-
ers are chomping at the bit to get
started on field work.
Now imagine the farmers along the
Missouri River. Tens of thousands of
acres of farmland are underwater. For
sure, these acres may never be ready
for planting this season.
Now consider the farmers who were
storing grain in the bins along the Mis-
souri. Millions of bushels of flood-
soaked grain have spilled into murky
floodwaters.
This picture says it all. This is grain
that farmers were counting on to pay
the bills to put this year’s crop in the
ground. This photo was shared courtesy
of State Representative David Sieck,
whose legislative district is almost
completely impacted by the flood dam-
ages. I thank David for sharing.
My State staff tells me that some
farmers in the flooded areas didn’t get
last fall’s crop fully harvested, and of
course that is destroyed.
Since March 12, my staff has been
crisscrossing scores of Iowa counties to
visit affected communities and meet
directly with Iowans. They are sharing
directly with me the feedback from
Iowans. I am making plans to visit af-
fected areas as soon as I can as well. I
am anxious to measure recovery and
cleanup efforts to inform my decisions
on tax and spending policies that are
needed to help with recovery efforts
going forward.
As my speech and these photos sug-
gest to all and I hope will suggest to
each of my colleagues here in the Sen-
ate, we have a long road to recovery
from the floods of 2019. In fact, it could
be worse. The National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration issued a
wake-up call last week. We are not yet
out of the woods—not by a long shot.
With more precipitation, snowmelt,
saturated soils, frozen ground, and
massive ice jams, we are in store for
significant spring flooding that may
reach 200 million Americans.
Today, I have talked largely about
the extent of damages and the recovery
efforts that are just getting started. It
is also important to talk about flood
mitigation. Breached, overtopped, or
compromised levees span hundreds of
miles on the Missouri River along the
States of Iowa, Nebraska, and Mis-
souri.
It took a long time for these commu-
nities to recover from flooding that
took place 8 years ago. It is no wonder
an awful lot of Iowans are feeling like
they are way back to square one again.
Iowans, especially those who live
along the Missouri River, want and de-
serve answers. Southwest Iowa commu-
nities have raised grave concern about
the unresponsive Corps of Engineers—
specifically, about the lack of commu-
nication and about not enough river
dredging, water release, and about or-
dering the town of Hamburg, back in
2011, to remove reinforcements of the
now-breached levee that left the town
under water.
I, too, share the concerns that have
been expressed to the Corps of Engi-
neers. I have had a chance to talk to
the Corps headquarters in Omaha. For
years I have worked with several of my
midwestern colleagues along the Mis-
souri River to make flood control the
No. 1 priority of the Corps.
It seems to me that misguided deci-
sions and misplaced priorities have
eclipsed common sense. As I told you, I
talked last week with the commander
of the Corps in Omaha and shared my
concerns about the lack of communica-
tion and coordination with local com-
munities. Perhaps a good scrubbing of
the Master Manual of the Corps of En-
gineers for the Missouri River may
help to clear the wax out of bureau-
cratic ears that haven’t gotten the
message.
The No. 1 priority of the Corps should
be flood control—flood control, period.
I started out today by saying that I
wanted to share a message from Amer-
ica’s heartland. I close my remarks by
sending a message to that American
heartland.
As Iowa’s senior Senator, I will stand
with you every step of the way. My
staff and I are working very closely
with Iowa and midwestern congres-
sional delegations, the Trump adminis-
tration, and State agencies to make
sure disaster relief programs are work-
ing effectively for homeowners, small
businesses, farmers, and our local com-
munities.
The best I thing I can say to any Fed-
eral Agency and their employees, the
Corps of Engineers, FEMA, and many
others is to use a little common sense
and cut out a lot of the redtape, but
here is where it ends.
When the going gets tough, Iowans
get tougher. So hang tough, keep fight-
ing, and know that help is on the way.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, as the
world now knows, yesterday evening
Attorney General Barr sent a letter to
Congress on the investigation by the
special counsel. In his letter, Attorney
General Barr confirmed the intel-
ligence community’s assessment that
through a coordinated disinformation
campaign and hacking operations, Rus-
sia sought to interfere with the 2016
election. Any attempts by a foreign
government to interfere with our
Democratic processes, successful or un-
successful, must not be taken lightly.
Though the special counsel’s inves-
tigation was very targeted and specific,
Members of the Senate Intelligence
Committee, on which I serve, continue
our work to more closely examine the
matter as well as the broader threats
posed by foreign interference as part of
our oversight responsibilities. Al-
though this was the major focus of the
special counsel’s investigation, it was
not the most anticipated portion of Mr.
Mueller’s report.
After reviewing the special counsel’s
findings, the Attorney General con-
cluded that the Trump campaign did
not coordinate with the Russian Gov-
ernment in their efforts to influence
the election. Based on their reaction
since General Barr released his letter,
it is clear the partisans who will never
be satisfied with any results of an in-
vestigation will not be appeased by this
report from the special counsel or Gen-
eral Barr’s summary of Mr. Mueller’s
conclusions.
I hope our colleagues will trust the
dedicated team of public servants who
investigated this matter for the special
counsel and now allow Congress to
move on so we can deal with other
challenges facing the American people.
The worst thing we can do is get
bogged down in a relitigation of all
these issues over which we have no real
authority because Congress’s role is to
conduct oversight for purposes of de-
termining whether the laws have been
faithfully executed or whether changes
in the law need to occur. Obviously,
the special counsel’s role is entirely
different. It is a criminal investigation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.002 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1921
March 25, 2019
to determine whether there is suffi-
cient evidence of a violation of a crimi-
nal law that would warrant presen-
tation to a grand jury, charging, and
then a trial. Congress’s role is demon-
strably and decidedly different.
I would like to thank Mr. Mueller for
conducting his investigation with the
utmost professionalism. For those of us
who have seen him in action over many
years, we expected nothing different. I
would also like to thank Attorney Gen-
eral Barr for promptly communicating
his conclusions with both Congress and
the American people. Throughout At-
torney General Barr’s confirmation
hearings, he stressed his intent to re-
lease as much information as possible,
and he is now in the process of deliv-
ering on his word.
I agree with those on both sides of
the aisle, as well as the President, who
want the Mueller report to be released
publicly. As much of the report as can
be released, and consistent with exist-
ing law, should be made public so the
American people can read it for them-
selves, but I also agree with the chair-
man of the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee, Senator GRAHAM, that we also
need to understand better how we got
to this place.
We need to look at the decisions
made by the leadership in the Depart-
ment of Justice, the FBI, the intel-
ligence community, and the Obama
White House during the time in which
this counterintelligence investigation
was initiated against President Trump
while he was still a candidate, and
why, contrary to the practice as testi-
fied to by Attorney General Loretta
Lynch, a defensive briefing was not
given to the Trump campaign so they
could know that the Russians were try-
ing the doors and the windows and try-
ing to get into the organization.
We know now, from Mr. Mueller’s re-
port, they were unsuccessful in estab-
lishing a connection and collusion, as
the word has been used, but we know
the investigation that initially was
started, ultimately, came up empty-
handed and resulted in this narrative,
which prompted the appointment of a
special counsel and this long investiga-
tion that Mr. Mueller has now com-
pleted. So we need to understand that
better as part of our oversight respon-
sibilities, particularly those of us, such
as the Presiding Officer and I, who are
on the Judiciary Committee who have
explicit oversight responsibility for the
Department of Justice as well as the
FBI.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. President, on another matter, we
will soon have an opportunity to vote
on the Green New Deal. Since this reso-
lution was introduced last month,
there has been a lot of confusion about
exactly what is in it and how much it
would cost. Generally, those aren’t
great questions to leave unanswered
when you are trying to pass something
in the Senate. We need more informa-
tion, to be sure.
When the resolution was released, it
made some lofty promises: achieving
net zero greenhouse gas emissions, ren-
ovating or replacing all buildings to
achieve maximum energy efficiency,
and providing higher education,
healthcare, and housing for everybody.
Missing, of course, were some of the de-
tails about how these goals would be
either feasible or affordable: no plans
on how to incentivize the research and
development of new, cleaner energy
technologies; no specifics on how much
it would cost to retrofit every existing
building in the country; no estimates
about how the long list of new entitle-
ment programs would be funded. The
confusion only grew stronger when one
of the authors of the resolution re-
leased a background summary that
made even more promises, again, with
no assurance of any plan that would
actually be feasible or could be imple-
mented. The Congresswoman from New
York claimed that the Green New Deal
would even include a government-sub-
sidized life for those who are unwilling
to work. She said we will build high-
speed rail that will make airline travel
unnecessary, which came as a surprise
to our colleagues from Hawaii, and she
said we will replace every internal
combustion engine in every vehicle. As
you might imagine, there was a long
list of unanswered questions.
The one thing we know about the
Green New Deal is, it would be a bad
deal for Texas. Our State has always
embraced an ‘‘all of the above’’ atti-
tude when it comes to energy. Our peo-
ple don’t expect handouts, but they do
expect opportunities that only come
with economic and individual freedom.
They don’t want to be told what the
government will permit them to do or
force them to do, and they certainly
don’t want to be taxed to death to sup-
port people who aren’t willing to work.
We believe the government that gov-
erns least governs best in a nation of
laws, especially when it comes to our
economy.
Texas keeps its taxes, government
spending, and regulations at a rational
minimum to give people and small
businesses that create jobs the freedom
to dream big and let the free market
provide. We know it works. Lower
taxes and less burdensome regulation
draw businesses to our State. We are
one of the fastest growing States in the
Nation because people are literally vot-
ing with their feet. It is because we
have seen jobs created and opportuni-
ties for everyone willing to work.
Our unemployment rate is at or
below the national average. I believe,
in Midland, TX, in the Permian Basin,
it is 2.1 percent. They can’t find enough
able-bodied people to perform the good,
well-paying jobs that exist. We know
we lead the Nation in exports, fueling
both the State’s economy as well as
that for the entire country.
As I just alluded, the major part of
our State’s success is our thriving en-
ergy industry. Something that will not
come as a surprise to most people is
the fact that Texas leads the country
in both oil and natural gas production,
but what may surprise you is the fact
that we are the No. 1 producer of elec-
tricity from wind energy. One-fourth of
all U.S. wind energy comes from Texas.
There is no doubt that Texas’s position
as the largest energy-producing State
has secured our position as an eco-
nomic powerhouse, but if the authors
of the Green New Deal get their way,
oil, gas, and all hydrocarbons will all
be off-limits, and the results will be
disastrous without anywhere else to
turn for an alternative because renew-
ables simply aren’t prepared to fill that
gap. Hundreds of thousands of people
will lose their jobs, exports will de-
cline, and without a reliable alter-
native power source, you can expect to
spend most of your day in the dark. In-
stead of talking about plans that would
hurt my constituents in Texas and
bankrupt the entire country, let’s have
a serious conversation about real solu-
tions.
A few weeks ago, our friend and col-
league from Maine, Senator COLLINS,
joined me on a tour of the NET Power
demonstration plant in La Porte, TX.
NET Power has developed a first-of-its-
kind system that generates affordable
energy from natural gas while pro-
ducing zero emissions. These innova-
tive carbon capture technologies are
what our future should look like. If
American companies don’t produce
them first, well, we know somebody
else will. So in America we need to in-
vest in new technologies that can take
our most reliable and affordable energy
sources and make them cleaner.
When Senator MCCONNELL announced
his intent to bring this bill to the floor,
things got a little strange in the Sen-
ate. In my experience, if the majority
leader says he will bring something
you authored to the floor, you are
thrilled—but not with the Green New
Deal. The junior Senator from Massa-
chusetts who introduced the resolution
in the first place referred to this an-
nouncement as ‘‘sabotage.’’
Well, clearly something is wrong. I
believe it is important for us to have a
discussion about smart ways to reduce
emissions and lessen our environ-
mental footprint, but the way to do
that is not through heavyhanded regu-
lations or unrealistic goals to elimi-
nate the fuel sources we need, nor is it
about throwing in socialist government
power grabs that only appeal to a rad-
ical wing of the other party, which is
basically a distraction from the real
issues we should be discussing.
The Green New Deal is bad for Amer-
ica, bad for Texas, and I urge my
Democratic colleagues to stop this ide-
ological race to the left and start
working with us on practical solutions
that actually have a chance to become
law. I will vote no on the Green New
Deal resolution, and I encourage all of
my colleagues to do the same.
FIX NICS ACT
Mr. President, this last Saturday
marked 1 year since the Fix NICS Act
was signed into law. This legislation
meant a lot to me personally because it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.004 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1922 March 25, 2019
fulfilled a promise I made to the mem-
bers of the Sutherland Springs commu-
nity after the deadliest shooting in
Texas history.
On November 5, 2017, a deranged gun-
man opened fire in the First Baptist
Church in Sutherland Springs, killing
26 people and rocking our entire State
to its core.
The gunman had a criminal record, a
record of violence and mental illness.
He had been convicted of domestic vio-
lence while serving in the military and
by law should not have been able to
purchase or possess a firearm, but the
National Instant Criminal Background
Check System, known as NICS, did not
have a record of his crimes because
they had not been transmitted by the
U.S. Air Force to the FBI. In the wake
of that tragedy, it is hard to rid your
mind of the what-ifs. What if his crimi-
nal record had been uploaded to the
NICS database? What if he had not
been able to purchase a gun? For the
friends and family of those lost that
day, those questions are almost too
tough to ask because they know the
answer: Their loved ones might still be
alive today.
Sadly, there is nothing we can do to
bring back the loved ones they lost
that day, but I knew there was some-
thing we could do to prevent other
families and communities from experi-
encing that sort of pain, grief, and loss.
Less than 2 weeks after the tragedy,
Senator MURPHY from Connecticut and
I introduced the Fix NICS Act to pre-
vent these systemic failures from hap-
pening again. This legislation penalizes
Federal Agencies that fail to properly
report relevant crimes and incentivizes
States to improve their reporting.
These sorts of commonsense reforms
gained broad bipartisan support. In
fact, there were 77 cosponsors here in
the Senate alone, including both the
majority and minority leaders, some-
thing of a rarity in my experience. It
also gained the support of a diverse
group of national organizations, from
the National Rifle Association to the
National Coalition Against Domestic
Violence, the Fraternal Order of Po-
lice, and the National Shooting Sports
Foundation. When President Trump
signed this bill 1 year ago, it marked
the strongest update to the background
check system in a decade.
I appreciate the support of my col-
leagues for this legislation. What we
were able to demonstrate is that Con-
gress can work in a bipartisan way to
address a problem if we just put our
minds to it. I appreciate the support of
the Sutherland Springs community in
the wake of the tragedy, something
they are still feeling even today. I am
confident that this legislation will help
to save lives and make our commu-
nities safer.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
NEW MANHATTAN PROJECT FOR CLEAN ENERGY
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
believe climate change is real. I believe
that human emissions of greenhouse
gases are a major cause of climate
change, and I believe the Democratic
plan for climate change, which the
Senator from Texas just spoke about—
the Green New Deal—is so far out in
left field that not many are going to
take it seriously.
So as one Republican, I am here
today to propose this response to cli-
mate change, which is that the United
States should launch a New Manhattan
Project for Clean Energy, a 5-year
project with 10 grand challenges that
will use American research and tech-
nology to put our country and our
world firmly on the path for cleaner,
cheaper energy.
Meeting these grand challenges
would create breakthroughs in ad-
vanced nuclear reactors, natural gas,
carbon recapture, better batteries,
greener buildings, electric vehicles,
cheaper solar power, and fusion. To
provide the tools to create these break-
throughs, the Federal Government
should double its funding for energy re-
search and keep the United States No.
1 in advanced computing. This strategy
takes advantage of the United States’
secret weapon—our extraordinary ca-
pacity for basic research and especially
in our 17 National Laboratories. It will
strengthen our economy. It will raise
family incomes.
This strategy also recognizes that
when it comes to climate change,
China, India, and other developing
countries are the problem. American
innovation is the answer. According to
the Global Carbon Project, over the
last 13 years the United States has re-
duced production of greenhouse gases
more than any other major country.
Let me say that again. According to
the Global Carbon Project, over the
last 13 years the United States has re-
duced production of greenhouse gases
more than any other major country.
But over the last 5 years, China and its
carbon emissions have risen. The U.S.
reduction is largely thanks to con-
servation and switching from coal to
natural gas in the production of elec-
tricity.
This is the way a California physicist
explains it: Our mothers told us as
children to clean our plates because
children in India were starving. Now,
cleaning our plates was a good thing
for us to do, but it didn’t do much for
starving children in India. In the same
way, reducing carbon emissions in the
United States is a good thing to do, but
it doesn’t do much to address climate
change because most of the increase in
greenhouse gases is in developing coun-
tries. If we want to do something about
climate change, we should use Amer-
ican research and technology to pro-
vide the rest of the world with tools to
create low-cost energy that emits
fewer greenhouse gases.
The purpose of the original Manhat-
tan Project during World War II was to
find a way to split the atom and build
a bomb before Germany could. The New
York Times described this as the
‘‘most concentrated intellectual effort
in history.’’ Instead of ending a war,
the goal of the New Manhattan Project
will be to minimize the disruption on
our lives and our economies caused by
climate change, to clean the air, and to
raise family incomes, both in our coun-
try and in the rest of the world, by cre-
ating large amounts of reliable, clean,
inexpensive energy.
Can a New Manhattan Project ac-
complish such bold breakthroughs in
just 5 years? Well, take a look at the
last 5 years. Carbon emissions from en-
ergy consumption are down by 230 mil-
lion metric tons. The number of elec-
tric vehicles has doubled and so has the
median driving range per charge. The
utility scale cost of solar power has
been nearly cut in half. The number of
homes has risen by 4 percent, but
household energy usage has decreased
by 10 percent. We lost and then we re-
claimed the No. 1 spot in supercom-
puting. The cost of natural gas has
been cut in half, and the percent of
electricity provided by natural gas has
increased from 27 percent to 35 percent.
And that is all in the last 5 years.
I will not spend time in these re-
marks debunking the Green New Deal
because so many others have so effec-
tively already done that. Basically, the
Green New Deal is an assault on cars,
cows, and combustion. With nuclear
power available, its strategy for fight-
ing climate change with windmills
makes as much sense as going to war
in sailboats. As a bonus, and as the
Senator from Texas outlined, it throws
in free college, a guaranteed job with a
government-set wage, and it would
take away private health insurance on
the job from 170 million Americans,
and no one has any earthly idea what it
will cost taxpayers.
You don’t have to believe that hu-
mans cause climate change to believe
in the New Manhattan Project for
Clean Energy, and you don’t have to be
a Republican. Hopefully, the New Man-
hattan Project for Clean Energy can
become a bipartisan proposal. Many of
its 10 grand challenges have been pro-
posed by the National Institute of En-
gineering and the National Academy of
Sciences. At different times, Barack
Obama, John McCain, Newt Gingrich,
and Howard Dean have all called for a
Manhattan Project for new energy
sources.
These are the 10 grand challenges:
First is advanced nuclear. Ninety-
eight nuclear reactors produce 60 per-
cent of all carbon-free electricity in
the United States. There has never
been a death as a result of an accident
at one of these reactors. The problem is
that in competition with natural gas
and coal, these reactors cost too much
to build and some of them cost too
much to operate. According to the En-
ergy Information Administration, 11
reactors may shut down over the next
5 years. Building the Vogtle nuclear
plant in Georgia—the only two new re-
actors being built in the United
States—could cost as much as $27.5 bil-
lion. Building two natural gas plants to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.005 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1923
March 25, 2019
create the same amount of electricity
would cost less than $2 billion. We need
to stop talking about advanced reac-
tors and actually build something.
Within the next 5 years, we need to
build one or more advanced reactors to
demonstrate the capabilities they may
bring—lower costs, increased safety,
and less nuclear waste.
Natural gas. During the 1980s, Amer-
ican enterprise and technology created
a new, cheaper way to produce natural
gas in the United States. This helped
our country lead the world in reducing
carbon emissions because natural gas
has about half the carbon emissions as
a typical coal plant. Continuing to de-
velop new combustion technologies
will make natural gas-fired electric
generation more efficient and further
reduce carbon emissions.
Next is carbon capture. This is really
the holy grail of clean energy. Coal is
cheap. There is a lot of it. Already we
know how to capture sulfur, nitrogen,
and mercury from coal plants to clean
the air. We have seen that happen in
Tennessee. If we can figure out a way
also to capture carbon at a cheaper
cost and find large-scale uses for its by-
product—for example, CO2 to ethanol—
coal could be used everywhere in the
world. The Natural Resources Defense
Council has argued that after conserva-
tion, coal with carbon capture is the
best option for clean energy.
Next is better batteries. The all-elec-
tric Nissan Leaf that I bought in 2011
had a hard time getting me from the
Capitol to Dulles airport and back. Its
range was about 70 miles. Today, the
Nissan Leaf can travel 226 miles on one
charge. A Tesla Model S can travel 335
miles on one charge. The price of lith-
ium-ion batteries should fall another 45
percent during the next 5 years. Better
batteries can also one day allow utili-
ties and their customers to store large
amounts of electricity during nonpeak
hours.
Greener buildings. Despite consider-
able recent progress, this is still the
real low-hanging fruit. Residential and
commercial buildings still consume 39
percent of U.S. energy.
The next grand challenge is electric
vehicles. Ten years ago there were no
mass-produced electric cars on United
States highways. Today there are 1
million, and you read in the paper al-
most every day about a major auto-
maker making a large investment to
make millions more.
Cheaper solar. Solar power has grown
by 1,500 percent since 2011, but it still
accounts for only about 2 percent of
U.S. electricity. The new goal for the
Department of Energy’s SunShot Ini-
tiative is to lower the cost of solar an-
other 50 percent to 3 cents per kilowatt
hour for utility scale solar.
Then there is fusion. This is the ulti-
mate green energy dream—to make
electricity on Earth the way the Sun
makes it. Instead of splitting elements,
combine them and make clean, almost
limitless energy without waste. This is
still a dream, but there can be mean-
ingful progress in the next 5 years.
Advanced computing. China, Japan,
the United States, and the European
Union—all want to be first in advanced
computing. The stakes are high be-
cause the winner has an advantage in
such things as advanced manufac-
turing, simulating advanced reactors
and weapons before they are built, find-
ing terrorists, saving billions of Med-
icaid waste, and simulating the elec-
tric grid in a natural disaster.
The United States regained the No. 1
spot last year in advanced computing,
thanks to sustained funding by Con-
gress during both the Obama and
Trump administrations, and we need to
keep that position.
The final grand challenge is to double
energy research funding. Advanced
computing is the first tool the New
Manhattan Project needs to meet its
grand challenges. The second tool is
money. It would take $6 billion annu-
ally to double funding for the Depart-
ment of Energy’s Office of Science and
its 17 National Laboratories, which is
where most of our Nation’s basic en-
ergy research is done. By comparison,
many estimate the cost of the Green
New Deal in the trillions.
This is a bold agenda and, hopefully,
a bipartisan agenda. It is an agenda
that can, over the next 5 years, place
Americans firmly on the path toward
dealing with climate change and at the
same time produce large amounts of re-
liable, clean energy that lifts family
incomes in our country and around the
world.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that a 2012 op-ed in the New York
Times, entitled ‘‘The Conversion of a
Climate-Change Skeptic,’’ authored by
Richard Muller, a professor of physics
at the University of California, Berke-
ley, and, second, an address I made in
Oak Ridge, TN, in 2008, which called for
a New Manhattan Project for Clean En-
ergy Independence, be printed in the
RECORD following my remarks.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the New York Times, July 28, 2012]
THE CONVERSION OF A CLIMATE-CHANGE
SKEPTIC
(By Richard A. Muller)
Call me a converted skeptic. Three years
ago I identified problems in previous climate
studies that, in my mind, threw doubt on the
very existence of global warming. Last year,
following an intensive research effort involv-
ing a dozen scientists, I concluded that glob-
al warming was real and that the prior esti-
mates of the rate of warming were correct.
I’m now going a step further: Humans are al-
most entirely the cause.
My total turnaround, in such a short time,
is the result of careful and objective analysis
by the Berkeley Earth Surface Temperature
project, which I founded with my daughter
Elizabeth. Our results show that the average
temperature of the earth’s land has risen by
two and a half degrees Fahrenheit over the
past 250 years, including an increase of one
and a half degrees over the most recent 50
years. Moreover, it appears likely that essen-
tially all of this increase results from the
human emission of greenhouse gases.
These findings are stronger than those of
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change, the United Nations group that de-
fines the scientific and diplomatic consensus
on global warming. In its 2007 report, the
I.P.C.C. concluded only that most of the
warming of the prior 50 years could be at-
tributed to humans. It was possible, accord-
ing to the I.P.C.C. consensus statement, that
the warming before 1956 could be because of
changes in solar activity, and that even a
substantial part of the more recent warming
could be natural.
Our Berkeley Earth approach used sophis-
ticated statistical methods developed largely
by our lead scientist, Robert Rohde, which
allowed us to determine earth land tempera-
ture much further back in time. We carefully
studied issues raised by skeptics: biases from
urban heating (we duplicated our results
using rural data alone), from data selection
(prior groups selected fewer than 20 percent
of the available temperature stations; we
used virtually 100 percent), from poor station
quality (we separately analyzed good sta-
tions and poor ones) and from human inter-
vention and data adjustment (our work is
completely automated and hands-off). In our
papers we demonstrate that none of these po-
tentially troublesome effects unduly biased
our conclusions.
The historic temperature pattern we ob-
served has abrupt dips that match the emis-
sions of known explosive volcanic eruptions;
the particulates from such events reflect
sunlight, make for beautiful sunsets and cool
the earth’s surface for a few years. There are
small, rapid variations attributable to El
Niño and other ocean currents such as the
Gulf Stream; because of such oscillations,
the ‘‘flattening’’ of the recent temperature
rise that some people claim is not, in our
view, statistically significant. What has
caused the gradual but systematic rise of
two and a half degrees? We tried fitting the
shape to simple math functions
(exponentials, polynomials), to solar activity
and even to rising functions like world popu-
lation. By far the best match was to the
record of atmospheric carbon dioxide, meas-
ured from atmospheric samples and air
trapped in polar ice.
Just as important, our record is long
enough that we could search for the finger-
print of solar variability, based on the his-
torical record of sunspots. That fingerprint
is absent. Although the I.P.C.C. allowed for
the possibility that variations in sunlight
could have ended the ‘‘Little Ice Age,’’ a pe-
riod of cooling from the 14th century to
about 1850, our data argues strongly that the
temperature rise of the past 250 years cannot
be attributed to solar changes. This conclu-
sion is, in retrospect, not too surprising;
we’ve learned from satellite measurements
that solar activity changes the brightness of
the sun very little.
How definite is the attribution to humans?
The carbon dioxide curve gives a better
match than anything else we’ve tried. Its
magnitude is consistent with the calculated
greenhouse effect—extra warming from
trapped heat radiation. These facts don’t
prove causality and they shouldn’t end skep-
ticism, but they raise the bar: to be consid-
ered seriously, an alternative explanation
must match the data at least as well as car-
bon dioxide does. Adding methane, a second
greenhouse gas, to our analysis doesn’t
change the results. Moreover, our analysis
does not depend on large, complex global cli-
mate models, the huge computer programs
that are notorious for their hidden assump-
tions and adjustable parameters. Our result
is based simply on the close agreement be-
tween the shape of the observed temperature
rise and the known greenhouse gas increase.
It’s a scientist’s duty to be properly skep-
tical. I still find that much, if not most, of
what is attributed to climate change is spec-
ulative, exaggerated or just plain wrong. I’ve
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.007 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1924 March 25, 2019
analyzed some of the most alarmist claims,
and my skepticism about them hasn’t
changed.
Hurricane Katrina cannot be attributed to
global warming. The number of hurricanes
hitting the United States has been going
down, not up; likewise for intense tornadoes.
Polar bears aren’t dying from receding ice,
and the Himalayan glaciers aren’t going to
melt by 2035. And it’s possible that we are
currently no warmer than we were a thou-
sand years ago, during the ‘‘Medieval Warm
Period’’ or ‘‘Medieval Optimum,’’ an interval
of warm conditions known from historical
records and indirect evidence like tree rings.
And the recent warm spell in the United
States happens to be more than offset by
cooling elsewhere in the world, so its link to
‘‘global’’ warming is weaker than tenuous.
The careful analysis by our team is laid
out in five scientific papers now online at
BerkeleyEarth.org. That site also shows our
chart of temperature from 1753 to the
present, with its clear fingerprint of volca-
noes and carbon dioxide, but containing no
component that matches solar activity. Four
of our papers have undergone extensive scru-
tiny by the scientific community, and the
newest, a paper with the analysis of the
human component, is now posted, along with
the data and computer programs used. Such
transparency is the heart of the scientific
method; if you find our conclusions implau-
sible, tell us of any errors of data or anal-
ysis.
What about the future? As carbon dioxide
emissions increase, the temperature should
continue to rise. I expect the rate of warm-
ing to proceed at a steady pace, about one
and a half degrees over land in the next 50
years, less if the oceans are included. But if
China continues its rapid economic growth
(it has averaged 10 percent per year over the
last 20 years) and its vast use of coal (it typi-
cally adds one new gigawatt per month),
then that same warming could take place in
less than 20 years.
Science is that narrow realm of knowledge
that, in principle, is universally accepted. I
embarked on this analysis to answer ques-
tions that, to my mind, had not been an-
swered. I hope that the Berkeley Earth anal-
ysis will help settle the scientific debate re-
garding global warming and its human
causes. Then comes the difficult part: agree-
ing across the political and diplomatic spec-
trum about what can and should be done.
A NEW MANHATTAN PROJECT FOR CLEAN
ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
SEVEN ‘‘GRAND CHALLENGES’’ FOR THE NEXT
FIVE YEARS: PLUG-IN ELECTRIC CARS AND
TRUCKS, CARBON CAPTURE, SOLAR POWER, NU-
CLEAR WASTE, ADVANCED BIOFUELS, GREEN
BUILDINGS, FUSION
MAY 9TH, 2008
History
In 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt
asked Sen. Kenneth McKellar, the Ten-
nessean who chaired the Appropriations
Committee, to hide $2 billion in the appro-
priations bill for a secret project to win
World War II.
Sen. McKellar replied, ‘‘Mr. President, I
have just one question: where in Tennessee
do you want me to hide it?’’
That place in Tennessee turned out to be
Oak Ridge, one of three secret cities that be-
came the principal sites for the Manhattan
Project.
The purpose of the Manhattan Project was
to find a way to split the atom and build a
bomb before Germany could. Nearly 200,000
people worked secretly in 30 different sites in
three countries. President Roosevelt’s $2 bil-
lion appropriation would be $24 billion today.
According to New York Times science re-
porter William Laurence, ‘‘Into [the bomb’s]
design went millions of man-hours of what is
without doubt the most concentrated intel-
lectual effort in history.’’
The goal: victory over blackmail
I am in Oak Ridge today to propose that
the United States launch a new Manhattan
project: a 5-year project to put America
firmly on the path to clean energy independ-
ence.
Instead of ending a war, the goal will be
clean energy independence—so that we can
deal with rising gasoline prices, electricity
prices, clean air, climate change and na-
tional security—for our country first, and—
because other countries have the same ur-
gent needs and therefore will adopt our
ideas—for the rest of the world.
By independence I do not mean that the
United States would never buy oil from Mex-
ico or Canada or Saudi Arabia. By independ-
ence I do mean that the United States could
never be held hostage by any country for our
energy needs.
In 1942, many were afraid that the first
country to build an atomic bomb could
blackmail the rest of the world. Today, coun-
tries that supply oil and natural gas can
blackmail the rest of the world.
Not a new idea
A new Manhattan Project is not a new
idea—but it is a good idea and fits the goal
of clean energy independence.
The Apollo Program to send men to the
moon in the 1960s was a kind of Manhattan
Project. Presidential candidates John
McCain and Barack Obama have called for a
Manhattan Project for new energy sources.
So have former House Speaker Newt Ging-
rich, Democratic National Committee chair-
man Howard Dean, Sen. Susan Collins of
Maine and Sen. Kit Bond of Missouri—among
others.
And, throughout the two years of discus-
sion that led to the passage in 2007 of the
America COMPETES Act, several partici-
pants suggested that focusing on energy
independence would force the kind of invest-
ments in the physical sciences and research
that the United States needs to maintain its
competitiveness.
A new overwhelming challenge
The overwhelming challenge in 1942 was
the prospect that Germany would build the
bomb and win the war before America did.
The overwhelming challenge today, ac-
cording to National Academy of Sciences
president Ralph Cicerone, in his address last
week to the Academy’s annual meeting, is to
discover ways to satisfy the human demand
for and use of energy in an environmentally
satisfactory and affordable way so that we
are not overly dependent on overseas
sources.
Cicerone estimates that this year Ameri-
cans will pay $500 billion overseas for oil—
that’s $1,600 for each one of us—some of it to
nations that are hostile or even trying to
kill us by bankrolling terrorists. Sending
$500 billion abroad weakens our dollar. It is
half our trade deficit. It is forcing gasoline
prices toward $4 a gallon and crushing family
budgets.
Then there are the environmental con-
sequences. If worldwide energy usage con-
tinues to grow as it has, humans will inject
as much CO2 into the air from fossil fuel
burning between 2000 and 2030 as they did be-
tween 1850 and 2000. There is plenty of coal to
help achieve our energy independence, but
there is no commercial way (yet) to capture
and store the carbon from so much coal
burning—and we have not finished the job of
controlling sulfur, nitrogen, and mercury
emissions.
The Manhattan Project model fits today
In addition to the need to meet an over-
whelming challenge, other characteristics of
the original Manhattan Project are suited to
this new challenge:
It needs to proceed as fast as possible along
several tracks to reach the goal. According
to Don Gillespie, a young engineer at Los Al-
amos during World War II, the ‘‘entire
project was being conducted using a shotgun
approach, trying all possible approaches si-
multaneously, without regard to cost, to
speed toward a conclusion.’’
It needs presidential focus and bipartisan
support in Congress.
It needs the kind of centralized, gruff lead-
ership that Gen. Leslie R. Groves of the
Army Corps of Engineers gave the first Man-
hattan Project.
It needs to ‘‘break the mold.’’ To borrow
the words of Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer in a
speech to Los Alamos scientists in November
of 1945, the challenge of clean energy inde-
pendence is ‘‘too revolutionary to consider in
the framework of old ideas.’’
Most important, in the words of George
Cowan as reported in the excellent book edit-
ed by Cynthia C. Kelly, ‘‘. . . The Manhattan
Project model starts with a small, diverse
group of great minds.’’
I said to the National Academies when we
first asked for their help on the America
COMPETES Act in 2005, ‘‘In Washington,
D.C., most ideas fail for lack of the idea.’’
The America COMPETES model fits, too
There are some lessons, too, from America
COMPETES.
Remember how it happened. Just three
years ago—in May 2005—a bipartisan group
of us asked the National Academies to tell
Congress in priority order the 10 most impor-
tant steps we could take to help America
keep its brainpower advantage.
By October, the Academies had assembled
a ‘‘small diverse group of great minds’’
chaired by Norm Augustine which presented
to Congress and to the President 20 specific
recommendations in a report called ‘‘Rising
Above the Gathering Storm.’’ We considered
proposals by other competitiveness commis-
sions.
Then, in January 2006, President Bush out-
lined his American Competitiveness Initia-
tive to double over 10 years basic research
budgets for the physical sciences and engi-
neering. The Republican and Democratic
Senate leaders and 68 other senators spon-
sored the legislation. It became law by Au-
gust 2007, with strong support from Speaker
Pelosi and the President.
Not elected to take a vacation this year
Combining the model of the Manhattan
Project with the process of the America
COMPETES Act has already begun. The Na-
tional Academies have underway an ‘‘Amer-
ica’s Energy Future’’ project that will be
completed in 2010. Ralph Cicerone has wel-
comed sitting down with a bipartisan group
to discuss what concrete proposals we might
offer earlier than that to the new president
and the new Congress. Energy Secretary
Sam Bodman and Ray Orbach, the Energy
Department’s Under Secretary for Science,
have said the same.
The presidential candidates seem ready.
There is bipartisan interest in Congress.
Congressman Bart Gordon, Democratic
Chairman of the Science Committee in the
House of Representatives—and one of the
original four signers of the 2005 request to
the National Academies that led to the
America COMPETES Act—is here today to
offer his ideas. Congressman Zach Wamp, a
senior member of the House Appropriations
Committee who played a key role in the
America COMPETES Act, is co-host for this
meeting.
I have talked with Sens. Jeff Bingaman
and Pete Domenici, the chairman and senior
Republican on the Energy Committee who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:29 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.016 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1925
March 25, 2019
played such a critical role in America COM-
PETES, and to Sen. Lisa Murkowski, who
likely will succeed Sen. Domenici as the sen-
ior Republican on the Energy Committee.
Some say a presidential election year is no
time for bipartisan action. I can’t think of a
better time. Voters expect presidential can-
didates and candidates for Congress to come
up with solutions for $4 gasoline, clean air
and climate change, and the national secu-
rity implications of our dependence on for-
eign oil. The people didn’t elect us to take a
vacation this year just because there is a
presidential election.
So, how to proceed?
A few grand challenges—Sen. Bingaman’s
first reaction to the idea of a new Manhattan
Project was that instead we need several
mini-Manhattan Projects. He suggested as
an example the ‘‘14 Grand Challenges for En-
gineering in the 21st Century’’ laid out by
former MIT President Chuck Vest, the presi-
dent of the National Institute of Engineer-
ing—three of which involve energy. I agree
with Sen. Bingaman and Chuck Vest.
Congress doesn’t do ‘‘comprehensive’’ well,
as was demonstrated by the collapse of the
comprehensive immigration bill. Step-by-
step solutions or different tracks toward one
goal are easier to digest and have fewer sur-
prises. And, of course, the original Manhat-
tan Project itself proceeded along several
tracks toward one goal.
Here are my criteria for choosing several grand
challenges:
Grand consequences, too—The United
States uses 25 percent of all the energy in
the world. Interesting solutions for small
problems producing small results should be a
part of some other project.
Real scientific breakthroughs—This is not
about drilling offshore for oil or natural gas
in an environmentally clean way or building
a new generation of nuclear power plants,
both of which we already know how to do—
and, in my opinion, should be doing.
Five years—Grand challenges should put
the United States within five years firmly on
a path to clean energy independence so that
goal can be achieved within a generation.
Family Budget—Solutions need to fit the
family budget, and costs of different solu-
tions need to be compared.
Consensus—The Augustine panel that
drafted the ‘‘Gathering Storm’’ report wisely
avoided some germane topics, such as exces-
sive litigation, upon which they could not
agree, figuring that Congress might not be
able to agree either.
Seven grand challenges:
Here is where I invite your help. Rather
than having members of Congress proclaim
these challenges, or asking scientists alone
to suggest them, I believe there needs to be
preliminary discussion—including about
whether the criteria are correct. Then, Con-
gress can pose to scientists questions about
the steps to take to achieve the grand chal-
lenges.
To begin the discussion, I suggest asking
what steps Congress and the federal govern-
ment should take during the next five years
toward these seven grand challenges so that
the United States would be firmly on the
path toward clean energy independence with-
in a generation:
1. Make plug-in electric cars and trucks
commonplace. In the 1960s, H. Ross Perot no-
ticed that when banks in Texas locked their
doors at 5 p.m., they also turned off their
new computers. Perot bought the idle night-
time bank computer capacity and made a
deal with states to manage Medicare and
Medicaid data. Banks made money, states
saved money, and Perot made a billion dol-
lars.
Idle nighttime bank computer capacity in
the 1960s reminds me of idle nighttime power
plant capacity in 2008. This is why:
The Tennessee Valley Authority has 7,000–
8,000 megawatts—the equivalent of seven or
eight nuclear power plants or 15 coal
plants—of unused electric capacity most
nights.
Beginning in 2010 Nissan, Toyota, General
Motors and Ford will sell electric cars that
can be plugged into wall sockets. FedEx is
already using hybrid delivery trucks.
TVA could offer ‘‘smart meters’’ that
would allow its 8.7 million customers to plug
in their vehicles to ‘‘fill up’’ at night for
only a few dollars, in exchange for the cus-
tomer paying more for electricity between 4
p.m. and 10 p.m. when the grid is busy.
Sixty percent of Americans drive less than
30 miles each day. Those Americans could
drive a plug-in electric car or truck without
using a drop of gasoline. By some estimates,
there is so much idle electric capacity in
power plants at night that over time we
could replace three-fourths of our light vehi-
cles with plug-ins. That could reduce our
overseas oil bill from $500 billion to $250 bil-
lion—and do it all without building one new
power plant.
In other words, we have the plug. The cars
are coming. All we need is the cord.
Too good to be true? Haven’t U.S. presi-
dents back to Nixon promised revolutionary
vehicles? Yes, but times have changed. Bat-
teries are better. Gas is $4. We are angry
about sending so many dollars overseas, wor-
ried about climate change and clean air.
And, consumers have already bought one
million hybrid vehicles and are waiting in
line to buy more—even without the plug-in.
Down the road is the prospect of a hydrogen
fuel-cell hybrid vehicle, with two engines—
neither of which uses a drop of gasoline. Oak
Ridge is evaluating these opportunities.
Still, there are obstacles. Expensive bat-
teries make the additional cost per electric
car $8,000–$11,000. Smart metering is not
widespread. There will be increased pollution
from the operation of coal plants at night.
We know how to get rid of those sulfur, ni-
trogen, and mercury pollutants (and should
do it), but haven’t yet found a way to get rid
of the carbon produced by widespread use in
coal burning power plants. Which brings us
to the second grand challenge:
2. Make carbon capture and storage a re-
ality for coal-burning power plants. This was
one of the National Institute of
Engineering’s grand challenges. And there
may be solutions other than underground
storage, such as using algae to capture car-
bon. Interestingly, the Natural Resources
Defense Council argues that, after conserva-
tion, coal with carbon capture is the best op-
tion for clean energy independence because
it provides for the growing power needs of
the U.S. and will be easily adopted by other
countries.
3. Make solar power cost competitive with
power from fossil fuels. This is a second of
the National Institute’s grand challenges.
Solar power, despite 50 years of trying, pro-
duces one one-hundredth of one percent of
America’s electricity. The cost of putting
solar panels on homes averages $25,000–
$30,000 and the electricity produced, for the
most part, can’t be stored. Now, there is new
photovoltaic research as well as promising
solar thermal power plants, which capture
the sunlight using mirrors, turn heat into
steam, and store it underground until the
customer needs it.
4. Safely reprocess and store nuclear waste.
Nuclear plants produce 20 percent of Amer-
ica’s electricity, but 70 percent of America’s
clean electricity—that is, electricity that
does not pollute the air with mercury, nitro-
gen, sulfur, or carbon. The most important
breakthrough needed during the next five
years to build more nuclear power plants is
solving the problem of what to do with nu-
clear waste. A political stalemate has
stopped nuclear waste from going to Yucca
Mountain in Nevada, and $15 billion col-
lected from ratepayers for that purpose is
sitting in a bank. Recycling waste could re-
duce its mass by 90 percent, creating less
stuff to store temporarily while long-term
storage is resolved.
5. Make advanced biofuels cost-competitive
with gasoline. The backlash toward ethanol
made from corn because of its effect on food
prices is a reminder to beware of the great
law of unintended consequences when issuing
grand challenges. Ethanol from cellulosic
materials shows great promise, but there are
a limited number of cars capable of using al-
ternative fuels and of places for drivers to
buy it. Turning coal into liquid fuel is an es-
tablished technology, but expensive and a
producer of much carbon.
6. Make new buildings green buildings.
Japan believes it may miss its 2012 Kyoto
goals for greenhouse gas reductions pri-
marily because of energy wasted by ineffi-
cient buildings. Many of the technologies
needed to do this are known. Figuring out
how to accelerate their use in a decentral-
ized society is most of this grand challenge.
7. Provide energy from fusion. The idea of
recreating on Earth the way the sun creates
energy and using it for commercial power is
the third grand challenge suggested by the
National Institute of Engineering. The prom-
ise of sustaining a controlled fusion reaction
for commercial power generation is so fan-
tastic that the five-year goal should be to do
everything possible to reach the long-term
goal. The failure of Congress to approve the
President’s budget request for U.S. participa-
tion in the International Thermonuclear Ex-
perimental Reactor—the ITER Project—is
embarrassing.
Anything is possible
This country of ours is a remarkable place.
Even during an economic slowdown, we
will produce this year about 30 percent of all
the wealth in the world for the 5 percent of
us who live in the United States.
Despite ‘‘the gathering storm’’ of concern
about American competitiveness, no other
country approaches our brainpower advan-
tage—the collection of research universities,
national laboratories and private-sector
companies we have.
And this is still the only country where
people say with a straight face that anything
is possible—and really believe it.
These are precisely the ingredients that
America needs during the next five years to
place ourselves firmly on a path to clean en-
ergy independence within a generation—and
in doing so, to make our jobs more secure, to
help balance the family budget, to make our
air cleaner and our planet safer and
healthier—and to lead the world to do the
same.
Mr. ALEXANDER. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Re-
publican leader is recognized.
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
yesterday, Attorney General Barr
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.019 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1926 March 25, 2019
transmitted to Congress his summary
of the special counsel’s principal con-
clusions from his investigation into
Russia’s efforts to interfere in the 2016
election.
The result of that investigation is
being hailed as good news for the Presi-
dent, and it certainly is that. But, real-
ly, it is good news for our entire coun-
try. It is good news that our law en-
forcement professionals know much
more about Russia’s malevolent at-
tempts to interfere in American elec-
tions, and it is good news that we can
conclusively set aside the notion that
the President and his team had some-
how participated in those attacks on
our democracy.
According to the Attorney General,
the special counsel’s indepth investiga-
tion ‘‘did not find that the Trump cam-
paign or anyone associated with it con-
spired or coordinated with Russia in its
efforts to influence the 2016 U.S. presi-
dential election.’’ That really says it
all.
Further, Attorney General Barr and
Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein
concluded the investigation did not—
did not—establish that the President
engaged in obstruction of justice.
So after 2 years, thousands of sub-
poenas, hundreds of search warrants,
hundreds of witnesses, millions of tax-
payer dollars, these are the findings: no
collusion, no conspiracy, no obstruc-
tion.
What the investigation did produce,
it seems, is a deep examination of Rus-
sia’s efforts to interfere in the 2016
election. The Attorney General reports
that Russia carried out online
disinformation campaigns and com-
puter hacking efforts designed to sow
discord in our Nation and interfere in
American politics.
It is deeply disturbing that the
Obama administration was apparently
insufficiently prepared to anticipate
and counter these Russian threats. It
was hardly a secret prior to November
2016 that Putin’s Russia was not, and is
not, our friend. Yet, for years, the pre-
vious administration ignored, excused,
and failed to confront Putin’s malign
activities both at home and abroad.
I am glad the special counsel’s report
will contribute new insight and new
understanding to our awareness of Rus-
sian activities. I look forward to the
release of more information in the
coming days, as the Attorney General
has said he intends to do, in consulta-
tion with Special Counsel Mueller.
I look forward, as well, to the con-
tinuing parallel work of our Senate
colleagues on the Select Committee on
Intelligence to study the threats that
foreign interference pose to our insti-
tutions.
As I said, in any sane political mo-
ment, all of this would be very wel-
come news to all Americans—in a nor-
mal time. But we know that, amaz-
ingly, the reaction in some corners of
the far left has seemed not to be cele-
bration but, rather, disappointment.
Huge components of the Democratic
Party and their media allies have spent
literally years spinning intricate theo-
ries about this Presidency and trying
to sell the American people on their
wild claims. It is as if many of our
Democratic colleagues are still just un-
able to process the simple fact that,
yes, the American people elected this
Republican President over his Demo-
cratic opponent.
We are faced with new evidence every
day that our Republican policies are
delivering exactly the change that
middle-class families voted for back in
2016. Yet, even still, many on the left
remain convinced that only conspiracy
and corruption could possibly explain
why they might actually lose an elec-
tion.
Well, here in the real world, the
American people hired this President
to clean up the mess of the preceding 8
years. That is exactly what we set
about doing, and the results are clear.
The Nation is clearly better off than it
was 2 years ago.
I sincerely hope that now, at last, our
friends on the left will be able to put
aside their fixation on permanently re-
litigating their loss in 2016 and actu-
ally join in the productive work that
the rest of us have been proudly en-
gaged in for the past 2 years and count-
ing.
Unfortunately, the events over the
last few months have not exactly indi-
cated that productive, practical co-
operation is what our Democratic col-
leagues have in mind. To the contrary,
the Nation has watched as the Demo-
cratic Party has engaged in a collec-
tive headlong sprint—a headlong
sprint—toward the left, as far to the
left as possible, as fast as possible.
They have proposed a massive rewrit-
ing of the rules of American politics.
They have proposed scrapping Medi-
care, slapping its name on a brandnew,
one-size-fits-all government insurance
plan, and then making American fami-
lies’ existing private insurance policies
illegal. And, of course, they have pro-
posed what the Senate will be voting
on later this week—the famous Green
New Deal.
My colleagues and I will have plenty
more to say on this subject in the com-
ing days. Today, I just want to say that
I could not be more glad that the
American people will have the oppor-
tunity to learn precisely where each
one of their Senators stands on this
radical, top-down, and socialist
makeover of the entire U.S. economy.
Middle-class families will get to see
if their Senators have been wooed by
the disjointed contents of leftish day-
dreams.
Hard-working Americans in Ken-
tucky and around the country who are
employed in the energy and manufac-
turing industries will get to see if their
Senators support eliminating all fossil
fuels and suffocating their livelihoods.
Homeowners who take pride in their
hard-earned investment will get to see
if their Senators are in favor of forc-
ible, DC-directed remodeling of every
building in America.
Working-class Americans who have
benefited from our growing economy
and historic job market will learn
whether their Senators support turning
away from free enterprise and imple-
menting a new government-driven em-
ployment system.
Families who have to budget for
household expenses will see which Sen-
ators vote to increase their electricity
bills by what one analysis pegs at—lis-
ten to this—$300 a month.
Of course, every American taxpayer
will get to learn whether their Senator
supports saddling our Nation with the
astronomical cost of this socialist fan-
tasy—tens and tens of trillions of dol-
lars—a tax burden that would be cer-
tain to hurt not just wealthy Ameri-
cans but the middle class as well.
On all of these questions, on this
whole Democratic effort to rebrand all
the failed ideas of 20th-century social-
ism with a little green paint, every
Member of this body will have the op-
portunity to cast a clear vote this very
week. The American people deserve to
know which Senators can reject this
crippling proposal right away and
which Senators find themselves unable
to do that. That is exactly what they
will learn later this week.
NOMINATION OF BRIDGET S. BADE
Madam President, later today, the
Senate will vote to advance the nomi-
nation of yet another of President
Trump’s qualified choices to the Fed-
eral bench.
Bridget Bade of Arizona has been
tapped to serve on the Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeals. She brings with her
well-rounded experience as a legal pro-
fessional. She is a two-time graduate of
Arizona State University and has
served with distinction at the Depart-
ment of Justice, the Office of the U.S.
Attorney for the District of Arizona, as
a special counsel in private practice,
and most recently as a magistrate
judge.
Our colleagues on the Judiciary Com-
mittee saw fit to forward Ms. Bade’s
nomination with bipartisan support,
and I hope all Senators will join me in
voting to advance it later today.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
TRIBUTE TO TOM UDALL
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
first, all of us heard the sad news
today—nice for him but sad for us—
that TOM UDALL will not seek reelec-
tion.
He is one of the most principled,
hardest working Senators we have. He
is bright, he is dedicated, and he has
such integrity, which runs in the Udall
family. When he gets up to speak,
every Senator, Democratic and Repub-
lican, always knows how well thought
out his remarks will be and how sin-
cere they are. He is not doing this for
some angle or political purpose. He is
just the kind of person the Founding
Fathers wanted to serve in the U.S.
Senate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.010 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1927
March 25, 2019
TOM’s leadership on reforming the
campaign finance system, on pro-
tecting the environment, on advo-
cating on behalf of Native American
communities, shepherding legislation
to protect America from harmful
chemicals, and so much more, has been
invaluable.
We will all be saying more about TOM
in a little while. We will miss him. He
has been a wonderful Senator, a great
friend, and a wonderful member of this
caucus.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Madam President, I am going to
speak briefly on the matter of climate
change, and then I will address matters
relating to the special counsel’s inves-
tigation.
During the last month, this Chamber
has been the forum for debate on a
topic I never thought I would see Re-
publicans raise on their own—climate
change. They have long been the party
of climate change denial, with Presi-
dent Trump as the climate change de-
nier-in-chief. It is an awfully difficult
position to defend. It becomes more
difficult every week and every month,
and it is directly at odds with strong
consensus views of scientists in the
United States and around the globe.
As our weather changes and as we
face disasters, the average American is
saying more and more: Uh-oh. Climate
change. I wonder what the people in
Nebraska and Iowa think. They have
had these huge floods that have been so
devastating to them.
It is long past time for Republicans
to take these issues seriously. This
Chamber is supposed to debate the
most serious issues of our day. Climate
change is at the top of the list and
shouldn’t be an exception. That is why
for a month all 47 Democrats have
asked our Republican colleagues three
simple questions, which none of them
will answer. They are going to have to
answer them sooner or later. One, do
you agree that climate change is real?
Two, do you agree that it is caused by
human action? Three, do you believe
that Congress should take immediate
action to combat its effects?
We are not prescribing one part or
another; we are saying, let’s debate it.
Let’s not have a sham vote that is
meant to embarrass one person or an-
other. This is too serious of an issue for
that. Republicans owe the American
people some real answers, not games.
As I mentioned, just over the last
week in the plains of Iowa, we saw the
devastating effects of climate change
with devastating clarity. The kind of
weather we saw in the Iowa plains has
no precedent. It was the equivalent of a
category 2 hurricane lambasting the
heart of the Midwest. Our hearts are
with the people whose homes were de-
stroyed or damaged, whose farms were
decimated, and the animals that were
lost.
The science is clear: A changing cli-
mate and warmer air make these freak-
ish weather incidents more likely and
more intense.
Republicans may want to keep their
heads in the sand. I think that is a
loser for them, especially among
younger and younger voters. Like on so
many other issues, Republicans are
clinging to the past and not looking at
what has happened, but Republicans do
so at their own peril. With each passing
year, their climate change denial is in-
creasingly out of step with the Amer-
ican people. A majority of Americans—
two-thirds, including a large percent-
age of Republicans—believe climate
change is real and believe human ac-
tion has accelerated its pace. They
know it for a very simple reason—they
can see it themselves.
On the South Shore of Long Island,
all of a sudden after Sandy, very Re-
publican areas understood the need to
address climate change. That is hap-
pening all over the country. The Amer-
ican people see the effects of climate
change every time a fire devastates
California, another hurricane strikes
the Gulf States, or Biblical flooding
strikes some part of the country or an-
other. They see them personally, not
theoretically. That is what is hap-
pening. Indeed, scientists in the United
States and Canada now say that the
evidence for climate change has
reached a ‘‘gold standard’’ of certainty.
What have Republicans done about
it? Rather than take these warnings se-
riously, they choose to play games
with our planet’s future. Rather than
get serious about the world our chil-
dren will inherent, Leader MCCONNELL
has elected to push a sham vote on
their version of the Green New Deal.
They will play that game right before
voting on funding for natural disaster
relief. Let there be no doubt—these dis-
asters are magnified precisely because
of climate change. I cannot fathom the
level of cognitive dissonance required
to schedule these two votes one right
after the other.
No one is fooled by the Republican
attempts to posture and politicize cli-
mate change. If they really want to de-
bate the issue, let’s debate it. Let’s
bring different views to the floor. Let’s
see how people vote. Let’s not put
something on the floor for the first
time—a serious proposal on climate
change, which the leader has never be-
fore put on the floor. Let’s debate them
all. We are not getting that to happen.
Oh no. It is just a game—politics, poli-
tics, politics—that the American peo-
ple, on this issue and so many others,
dislike.
Let Republicans come at us with all
they have. The facts are on the people
who understand that climate change is
real. It is no wonder our Republicans
colleagues don’t want a real debate but
a game. But the American people are
not going to be fooled by the Repub-
licans’ stunt vote.
Democrats are prepared to take bold
action to address the climate crisis
head-on. That is why we are pushing
for the creation of a bipartisan com-
mittee on climate change so we can ex-
amine this issue with the level of ur-
gency and depth it deserves. I urge my
colleagues on the other side who know
the truth to speak out and join us as
we try to put a halt to the greatest
threat of our time.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H. CON. RES. 24
Madam President, now on another
matter, last night, Attorney General
Barr delivered a brief letter to Con-
gress that included his summary of
Special Counsel Mueller’s investiga-
tion. We have all seen the Attorney
General’s letter, but none of us—nei-
ther the Congress nor the public—have
seen the report itself. The Justice De-
partment has declined to even say how
many pages the report includes, as if
that were some sort of State secret.
After all, let’s not forget why we are
here in the first place. Two years ago,
a hostile power attacked our democ-
racy. As Mr. Barr’s letter says, Russian
actors, with the backing of Mr. Putin,
waged a sophisticated and malicious
campaign of disinformation and false-
hood in order to influence the outcome
of our elections. That has never hap-
pened before.
The American people deserve to see
the documentation. What did they do?
Whom did they approach? What hap-
pened? To sweep an issue like this
under the rug, when the security of our
wellspring elections—fair and not
interfered with by foreign power—is at
stake?
It is overwhelmingly self-evident in
the public interest for the Mueller re-
port to be released to the people. The
American people simply want the
truth. Each American, if he or she
chooses, could read the report for
themselves and draw their own conclu-
sions. Whether or not you are a sup-
porter of President Trump, whatever
you feel, there is no good reason not to
make the report public.
On March 14, just prior to the recess,
the House of Representatives surprised
a lot of our Republicans friends here in
the Senate by passing a resolution call-
ing for the report to be made public.
Guess what the vote was. It was 420 to
nothing. Even the most vociferous de-
fenders of President Trump—Mr. MEAD-
OWS and Mr. JORDAN—voted yes.
When the resolution arrived here in
the Senate, I asked unanimous consent
that it be adopted. I thought it would
be. Regrettably, one Senator objected.
The Senator from South Carolina—my
friend, Senator GRAHAM—said he
wouldn’t agree to the resolution unless
it was amended to call for a special
prosecutor to investigate Hillary Clin-
ton. The Senate was unable to pass the
resolution that passed the House
unanimously without controversy.
In fact, President Trump had said,
even before the report came out and re-
peatedly afterward several times, that
he supported passage of the House reso-
lution and he supports making it pub-
lic, and so did a good number of my Re-
publican colleagues—a whole bunch
today.
So, in a moment, I am going to renew
my request of March 14 that the Senate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.012 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1928 March 25, 2019
adopt H. Con. Res. 24, calling for public
release of the Mueller report. Now that
President Trump supports public re-
lease of the report, there is no good
reason for anyone to object to this re-
quest.
It is a simple request for trans-
parency, nothing more, nothing less—
not to make a decision as to what you
believe, not to say what we ought to do
about it, but just to make it public.
Transparency is a great American vir-
tue that we have tried to uphold
through the centuries.
So I hope I will not hear a request
from the other side to amend the reso-
lution to call for a different special
counsel investigation. If there is going
to be an objection, the American peo-
ple deserve to know why—why should
this report not be made public—not
why something else shouldn’t be done,
not some extraneous issue. Why
shouldn’t this report be made public?
I ask my friend, the leader—I see him
rising, and I imagine he is going to ob-
ject—to give a reason why this report
should not be made public, not that
something else should be done at the
same time. This is serious stuff. If
there is an objection raised, it will only
serve to frustrate the compelling pub-
lic interest that is made in the special
counsel’s report in making it public.
Therefore, I will now give the Senate
another opportunity to join every one
of their colleagues in calling for the
public release of this important report.
Madam President, as if in legislative
session, I ask unanimous consent that
the Senate proceed to the immediate
consideration of H. Con. Res. 24, ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that the
report of Special Counsel Mueller
should be made available to the public
and to Congress, which is at the desk;
further, that the concurrent resolution
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed
to, and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Is there objection?
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, re-
serving the right to object, as I said
just a few moments ago, it is certainly
good news for the country that the spe-
cial counsel concluded that there is no
evidence that the Trump campaign col-
laborated or conspired with the Rus-
sian Government to influence the last
Presidential election. It is also good
news for the country that due to the
special counsel’s work, we now have
more insight into Russia’s efforts to
interfere with our democratic institu-
tion.
Now, I have consistently supported
the proposition that the special coun-
sel should be allowed to finish his work
without interference. The work of the
special counsel, however, is not yet
complete. Neither is the work of the
Department of Justice. The Attorney
General told us yesterday that he is
working with the special counsel to de-
termine how much of the special coun-
sel’s report can be produced without
violating the law and without jeopard-
izing other ongoing matters, including
other matters initiated by the special
counsel. The special counsel and the
Justice Department ought to be al-
lowed to finish their work in a profes-
sional manner.
Now, my good friend, the Democratic
leader, was all for allowing the special
counsel to conduct his work without
political interference when it might be
politically advantageous to him, but,
apparently, my friend from New York
is not for allowing the special counsel
to complete his work with the Justice
Department, according to his best pro-
fessional and legal judgment, when
that might be inconvenient to my
friend’s own current political purposes.
To date, the Attorney General has
followed through on his commitment
to the Congress. One of those commit-
ments is that he intends to release as
much information as possible. I cer-
tainly welcome that commitment to
transparency, as do others, but to the
extent that the Attorney General, in
consulting with the special counsel, be-
lieves it is important to protect sen-
sitive sources and methods, protect
material that could affect ongoing in-
vestigations and prosecutions, and is
legally protected, then he deserves the
time to work through these issues.
I am going to object in order to allow
the special counsel and the Justice De-
partment to finish their careful and
professional review of a, no doubt, vo-
luminous record—a record that likely
contains sensitive, classified, and le-
gally protected material.
For all of those reasons, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The minority leader is recognized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I will
be brief. The resolution does not say it
has to be done immediately. The reso-
lution certainly allows for the Attor-
ney General to make sure that nothing
is released that violates the law. All it
says is that it ought to be released. It
is hard to understand why the majority
leader wouldn’t be for that resolution.
None of his objections—none—are in
the words of the report. In fact, the
words of the report are very simple. It
shows a sense of the Congress that it
should be released—not when, not in
violation of the law, not in a hurried
matter, just to be released.
So I am sort of befuddled by at least
the majority leader’s reasoning in this
regard because it is not in the words of
this resolution.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, the
country and the President had to wait
2 years. It has been going on for 2
years. This very expensive investiga-
tion took 2 years to be concluded.
Look, it is not unreasonable to give the
special counsel and the Justice Depart-
ment just a little time to complete
their review in a professional and re-
sponsible manner.
Remember, as I said earlier, we are
likely dealing here with other poten-
tial prosecutions, classified informa-
tion, and damaging people’s reputa-
tions. There is no evidence that the At-
torney General is not going to produce
as much information as possible for all
of us, and that is why I objected.
I think it is a reasonable thing to do.
We have been waiting for a long time
for this report to wrap up. It is largely
good news, not just for the President
but for the country.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mi-
nority leader is recognized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, again,
this language was good enough for
every Republican in the Senate, as well
as every Democrat. The President him-
self says it should be released. It is
hard to understand why the majority
leader should stand alone in objections
no one else found to be reasonable or
sustainable and oppose this resolution.
The report should be made public, and
the Senate should resolve that it
should be.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan is recognized.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, revolu-
tion is deeply embedded in the char-
acter of this Nation.
More than two centuries ago, dele-
gates from across the American colo-
nies gathered in Philadelphia to take
what was audacious action. They
risked everything, including their
lives, by declaring independence from
the greatest and strongest power in the
world at that time, the British Empire.
I am proud to say that my forefather
served in George Washington’s army,
and he was called to risk his life and
serve in the Continental Army to fight
for an idea—that freedom and liberty
would reign in this country.
As Americans, throughout history,
we have been called to service. Some-
times we are called to service by clear
and present danger, such as the bomb-
ing at Pearl Harbor. Sometimes we are
called to greatness by stretching our
imagination like, when we went to the
Moon, and sometimes we are called to
unity by necessity because the stakes
of inaction are simply too high.
Today the United States faces such a
challenge, and I believe we can once
again prove our greatness. It is an un-
deniable fact that climate change,
caused in large part by humans, is a
threat to Michigan, our Great Lakes,
our country, and our planet. Climate
change poses a threat not only to the
lands and waters that we all depend on
but also to our health, our economy,
and even our national security.
It is also undeniable that the United
States, unified in purpose, can meet
the challenges and defeat the threats
caused by climate change, but we need
to take action now. Time is simply not
on our side.
Without question, taking action in-
volves political risk, but doing nothing
is simply not an option. The longer we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.013 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1929
March 25, 2019
wait, the risks to our planet only grow
more challenging and difficult to solve.
Our planet is showing clear, un-
equivocal evidence of climate change,
according to an overwhelming sci-
entific consensus. Our ice caps are
melting. Our oceans are warming. Se-
vere weather is becoming the new nor-
mal. Land temperatures are rising.
Just last week, an alarming new re-
port found that the Great Lakes are
warming more quickly than other
parts of the country. This change will
negatively impact fish species, lead to
more algal blooms, cause flood damage
to communities, homes, and busi-
nesses, and irreversibly alter a sen-
sitive ecosystem that provides drink-
ing water for 40 million Americans. I
represent the Great Lakes State, and
climate change threatens our economy
and our way of life.
I am disappointed that instead of
working together on commonsense ef-
forts and treating climate change with
the seriousness that it deserves, the
Republican Senate majority leader has
chosen to waste limited floor time on a
political stunt.
What we should be doing is having a
thoughtful debate on the need to ad-
dress a significant threat to our coun-
try. Rather than playing partisan
games, it is time to find unity and take
bold action.
The Senate must come together to
pass real, concrete policies that will
help to mitigate climate change and to
wean us from our dependence on fossil
fuels. I know it is possible because I
have worked on bipartisan efforts with
my colleagues to advance clean energy
and lower greenhouse gas emissions.
Together, we have advanced tech-
nology innovation, fueled our Nation’s
transportation with cleaner energy,
bolstered our Nation’s infrastructure
to be more resilient to climate im-
pacts, offered incentives for carbon
capture sequestration, and boosted en-
ergy efficiency. These are all accom-
plishments that we have done together,
but more needs to be done.
This Congress, as we consider a sur-
face transportation reauthorization
package, as well as a new Water Re-
sources Development Act, would be
foolish to ignore climate impacts as we
spend taxpayer dollars for infrastruc-
ture. We must seize the opportunity
presented by a clean energy economy
to continue driving American innova-
tion while creating sustainable good-
paying jobs.
Today our auto industry in Michigan
is rapidly working to advance elec-
trification. Just last week, General
Motors announced plans to add 400 jobs
and invest $300 million to build a new
electric car at their Orion plant. But
despite these efforts, our State and our
country have been hurt by the lack of
a coherent, cohesive, and forward-look-
ing policy that grows our economy
while protecting our environment.
We need a policy that ensures that
renewable energy is produced here in
America and done in a way that cre-
ates jobs and strengthens our national
security. I know that we can do it if
only we can find the political will.
Together, we can effectively confront
climate change in a way that benefits
Michigan workers and families, our
Great Lakes, and the entire country.
The science is clear, but time is not
on our side. We must take action now
to confront climate change before it is
too late. I urge my colleagues to stop
playing political games. Let’s roll up
our sleeves and get to work on solving
the climate change crisis together.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Georgia.
DISASTER RELIEF
Mr. ISAKSON. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent. I rise for a moment to talk about
a vote we will have tomorrow in this
Chamber on a motion to adopt an
amendment to the supplemental appro-
priations passed by the House, and it is
a disaster amendment dealing with the
States that have been afflicted by dis-
asters over the last 2 years—most of
them southern States, but not all.
Some include the Territory of Puerto
Rico.
I am going to go over the details in a
second, but first of all, some of you
may see floating around this memo-
randum from the chairman of the Ap-
propriations Committee in the House
and the vice chairman in the Senate. It
talks about an agreement that was on
the disaster money and refers to Puer-
to Rico being shortchanged and the
fact that we need to make sure that
that doesn’t happen. I want to give you
the facts.
Georgia, which I represent, is one of
a number of States that includes Ala-
bama, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Alaska, California, and Hawaii, which
have experienced significant disasters
in the past 2 years. We saw the fires in
California on our TVs. We saw the vol-
canos in Hawaii. We saw the blue-
berries in Georgia fall off the vines and
be destroyed. We saw what happened to
these crops and Alaska’s earthquake.
All of these States have received noth-
ing yet.
Puerto Rico has received $40 billion—
$40 billion for what happened in Maria,
and $21 billion has not been spent.
They have gotten a lot of money, $40
billion, and the amendment I want to
talk about in a second gives them $600
million more.
There are a lot of places in this coun-
try that are States that we represent
that have gotten nothing and have had
big disasters in the last 2 years. These
disasters are hurting our economy, our
people, and our States.
So I want to—any of you to see this
email or this flyer tomorrow or hear
the debate tomorrow. What it says, the
flyer says that the vice chairman of
the Appropriations Committee, Sen-
ator LEAHY, is going to object to the
substitute that will be offered by Sen-
ator PERDUE and myself tomorrow to
the bill that will be debated unless
Puerto Rico gets a better shake. The
point, Puerto Rico has gotten 40, only
spent 19, they have got $21 billion left
to spend. We have $600 million to see to
it that they don’t run out of SNAP
money at the end of this month, which
they will with everything that stands
currently. Puerto Rico is being treated
great. Is there CDBG money they
want? No, it is not in there.
‘‘Fair’’ is an interesting word. Fair is
when you and I are treated fairly. We
both get equal proportions, for money
and things of that nature. Unfair is
when somebody weights the formula—
or someone takes undue advantage of a
special situation.
Well, this is a special situation. A lot
of people are going to go without help
by the end of next month. Farm bills
are going to come due, and banks are
going to foreclose on them. A lot of
people in agriculture will be hurt
badly. People who have been hurt by
the fires in California will not be
helped. Those who expressed help for
earthquake damage in Alaska will not
be helped. A lot of people will not be
helped.
We need to put off this guise of fair-
ness and be really fair. Let’s see that
we put in the $600 million, which the
amendment does and see to it that peo-
ple on SNAP in Puerto Rico get their
money. Let’s see to it that those people
in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina,
and North Carolina and other States
damaged by floods, hurricanes, or fires
get their money.
There will be more emergencies, and
we all know that. We all hate emer-
gencies for a lot of reasons—appropri-
ators, especially. Nobody wants to have
to do that, but when our State, your
State or mine, is injured dramatically
in a disastrous hurricane or tornado or
whatever, we as a country have always
passionately dealt with the results of
those storms, the losses those States
have felt, and helped those States get
back on their feet and those people be
served.
We are not asking for a handout; we
are asking for a hand up in each of
those States, and they have been wait-
ing for a long time. Those who know
what I am talking about, who is from
Georgia, we have farmers who have
gone through a cycle and their farm fi-
nancing was done through banks that,
at the end of this month, will have to
act on those loans and call them for
payment or have a refinance schedule
knowing that they got some money
coming down the line. If this passes
and is agreed to by the House and the
banks get the message that we are try-
ing to help them like we have always
had in the past, they will have a
chance to make the negotiations, pay
the money back that they borrowed,
and do it over time and give people jobs
in the field rather than go back and
tell them we can’t give them money
and help them and lose the farm and
business and us lose a lot of jobs.
It is just not right, and it is not fair.
I used the word ‘‘fair’’ just then be-
cause I think fair is the definition of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.014 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1930 March 25, 2019
seeing to it that Puerto Rico, Georgia,
and South Carolina get help.
If you get this argument, read it. It
sounds like we agreed to something 3
weeks ago, and now, all of a sudden, we
are not agreeing to the same thing.
That is not true. We agreed last week
when we left what this vote would be
tomorrow, what the supplemental will
look like, what would be included in it,
and as I understood it and my sense of
understanding, we agreed to all the
things. Was there enough money for
Puerto Rico for what they wanted? No,
they wanted more. Would Florida like
more? Would Georgia like more? North
Carolina like more? Yes. But in fair-
ness of equity, it is fair and equitable
to those people.
I would urge you to listen to the de-
bate and what everybody tells you
what happened before you make a deci-
sion and everyone gets hurt. Instead
what you are going to do, if you fall for
this scenario, you are going to really
hurt some people who will otherwise be
helped through deliberations that have
taken over the part of the last 2 or 3
months.
Mr. President, I appreciate the time
and the time to come here. I wish I
could talk about something other than
disasters, but I can’t. A lot of people
lost their lives and farms and their fu-
ture. I want to see that we help in an
equitable fashion in those States and
those Territories that we do so.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Delaware is recognized.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I rise to
speak this afternoon on the upcoming
vote on the majority leader’s Green
New Deal resolution, a resolution that,
ironically, he apparently does not sup-
port.
First I want to say this about the
Green New Deal: Even our Republican
friends cannot deny that this resolu-
tion has sparked a national conversa-
tion and generated a great deal of en-
thusiasm among the American people,
especially among younger Americans.
It reminds me of the time when I was
a young naval flight officer stationed
at Moffett Field Naval Air Station just
south of San Francisco, waiting to be
deployed to Southeast Asia during the
Vietnam war. I joined millions of
Americans across our country that
year and celebrated our Nation’s very
first Earth Day.
As I listen to the rising chorus of
voices calling for climate action today,
I hear the sounds of that day in Golden
Gate Park. I remember the urgency we
felt then to address the environmental
challenges facing our Nation and our
world, and I feel an even greater sense
of urgency today. That is why it is so
disappointing to me that our Repub-
lican colleagues—not all of them but a
number of them—are trying to make a
mockery of the very real concerns and
the passionate calls for action we are
hearing from people all across this
country and, indeed, all around the
world.
This is not a time for derision. This
is not a time for division. On an issue
as serious as this one, we ought to be
serious about addressing it. However, it
has become clear that some—not all
but some—of our Republican friends
would rather have some fun and talk,
maybe, about hamburgers and cheese-
burgers and that kind of thing. Worse,
some have conflated meaningful action
on climate change with socialism.
With the death of our late colleague
John McCain, I am the last Vietnam
veteran serving in the U.S. Senate. I
served 5 years in a hot war in South-
east Asia to oppose the expansion of
communism. Shortly after we cele-
brated that first-ever Earth Day in
1970, I was sent on the first of three de-
ployments in Southeast Asia before
eventually serving another 18 years
until the end of the Cold War as a Navy
P–3 aircraft mission commander in the
Naval Reserve and retiring as a Navy
captain after chasing Soviet sub-
marines in all of the oceans of the
world.
I am not a socialist. Like most of our
colleagues here, I am an American pa-
triot and proud to be one. I care deeply
about this planet, and I know we can
have cleaner air and water while cre-
ating jobs. Those two things are not
mutually exclusive. Our Republican
colleagues know better than that, and
they owe our country better than that.
In recent weeks, our Republican col-
leagues have thrown around a $93 tril-
lion number. That wildly overesti-
mated number primarily refers to pro-
visions in the Green New Deal that are
not directly related to climate change.
At a time when our country is look-
ing to Congress for leadership on cli-
mate action, hiding behind political
games, deception, and scare tactics is
irresponsible. It is cowardly when we
ought to be brave.
Right now a clear majority of Ameri-
cans want us, in Congress, to address
the growing climate crisis that is fac-
ing our country and our planet. We
should be having a fact-based, policy-
driven conversation about tackling
this crisis, and we should be talking
about the real costs that confront us,
including the cost of inaction.
I live in Delaware, the lowest lying
State in our country. Our State is
sinking. The oceans around us are ris-
ing. According to our Nation’s leading
scientists, climate change unchecked
means more sea level rise, costing
coastal communities up and down the
east coast—like my State—trillions of
dollars in economic damages over the
next 80 years.
In the Northeast we are experiencing
rain events in which we are measuring
rain by the foot, not the inch. Not too
far from where we stand today, Ellicott
City, MD, has experienced not one but
two 1,000-year floods. They have with-
stood not one but two 1,000-year floods
in less than 2 years.
Today, our hearts go out to our
neighbors along the Missouri River
Basin as they are suffering through
catastrophic flooding. As of Friday, the
cost of damage to Nebraska alone had
already surpassed $1.3 billion, and the
damage to Iowa alone was estimated at
$1.6 billion. Some cities are currently
without fresh water. In Missouri, en-
tire communities have been evacuated.
In Northwestern Missouri, roughly
40,000 acres of farmland was still under-
water this past Friday.
Our Nation’s scientists tell us that
climate change unchecked means more
frequent and more intense storms,
meaning bomb cyclones. I didn’t even
know there was such a thing as bomb
cyclones, but there are. Intense
rainfalls and category 5 hurricanes are
becoming the new normal.
Last year, we witnessed the tragic
devastation caused by wildfires fueled
by drought and heat, like the Cali-
fornia wildfires. Imagine what we could
face in 2050 when, according to our Na-
tion’s scientists, wildfire seasons burn
up to six times more forest area each
year.
The extreme weather events we see
are already taking a toll on American
lives, on American livelihoods, and our
Nation’s budget. According to NOAA,
in 2017 alone, extreme weather cost
Americans $300 billion in economic
damages—a new record. That same
year, the Federal Government spent
$120 billion in Federal disaster spend-
ing for just four extreme weather
events—just four.
Earlier this month, the nonpartisan
Government Accountability Office re-
leased its biennial high-risk list and
once again identified climate change as
a significant fiscal risk to the Federal
Government and, I might add, to tax-
payers.
According to GAO, since 2005, Federal
funding for disaster assistance has
reached $430 billion—nearly one-half
trillion dollars—and those costs will
continue to rise. GAO says: ‘‘Disaster
costs are projected to increase as ex-
treme weather events become more fre-
quent and intense due to climate
change.’’
NOAA and NASA tell us these num-
bers will be a drop in the bucket com-
pared to our new climate future if we
do not act on climate change. If we do
not change course, just about every
major economic sector in the United
States will be negatively affected by
climate change by the turn of this cen-
tury. Some sectors could see hundreds
of billions of dollars of losses every
year.
Add it all up, and climate change
could slash up to 10 percent of our
gross domestic product, GDP, by 2100. I
like to say, compared to what? Well,
for context, that would be more than
double the losses incurred during the
great recession of the last decade. How-
ever, all of these costs are woefully un-
derestimated. How can we put a
pricetag on the toll of this destruction?
What is the cost of our fourth-genera-
tion farm family who loses their land
and their livestock? What is the cost of
a bridge inundated by water, sepa-
rating a community from a hospital or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.029 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1931
March 25, 2019
other emergency services? What is the
cost of the family who loses a child to
an asthma attack on a high particulate
matter day?
The circumstances I have laid out are
dire because that is the crisis we face,
and we cannot evade it into oblivion.
This poster says it all: ‘‘No matter
where we live, we can’t ignore the re-
ality of climate change or its effects.’’
We have to accept and address this cri-
sis.
As Albert Einstein once said, in ad-
versity lies opportunity. The oppor-
tunity before us is even greater. More
than 3 million people have gone to
work in the clean energy sector in the
United States in recent years, and
those jobs are in renewable energy gen-
eration, energy efficiency, smart grid
and storage, cleaner fuels, and lower
emission vehicles.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent for 2 more minutes to complete
my remarks.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. CARPER. Nearly 500,000 of these
clean energy jobs are in the solar and
wind industries, and one out of every
six construction workers in this coun-
try now make their living in emer-
gency and energy efficiency. One out of
every five companies involved in mak-
ing motor vehicle parts makes their
money from products that make our
cars, trucks, and vans cleaner.
Our clean energy revolution did not
happen by accident. We put smart poli-
cies in place, and we had leadership
that believed climate change was a
threat. During the Obama administra-
tion, starting with the Recovery Act,
the Federal Government provided eco-
nomic incentives and smart regula-
tions to support market investments
and clean energy. We must build on
this progress and continue to support
policies that reduce our Nation’s car-
bon footprint, help create a more ro-
bust economy, and support those most
vulnerable to climate change.
Yet instead of pursuing any ideas to
address climate change and protect
Americans from its effect, the Trump
administration has sadly decided to ig-
nore climate change, decided to defund
clean energy research and roll back
any meaningful climate action, decided
to walk away from provisions that
would help protect Americans from ris-
ing floods and other extreme weather
events.
Our President’s failed leadership on
climate change threatens our health,
our economy, U.S. competitiveness,
and our future. Sadly, most of our—not
all—but most of our Republican friends
have been applauding the President
with every action.
In conclusion, let me just say to the
American people, don’t be fooled or dis-
tracted by the political games. We can-
not allow cynicism to win. We can re-
duce our Nation’s carbon footprint; we
can strengthen our economy; and we
can support those most vulnerable
among us—indeed, we must. Climate
change is real. Human activity is the
dominant cause. Congress needs to act.
Stop the political theater and start to
address the climate change before us
today while we still have time, and we
do.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Roy
Blunt, John Cornyn, Joni Ernst,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Steve Daines,
James E. Risch, John Hoeven, Mike
Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Thune, Pat Roberts, Jerry Moran.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that the debate on the nomina-
tion of Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Mexico (Mr. UDALL)
and the Senator from Massachusetts
(Ms. WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 77,
nays 20, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 50 Ex.]
YEAS—77
Alexander
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—20
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Booker
Cantwell
Casey
Cortez Masto
Gillibrand
Harris
Hirono
Klobuchar
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Sanders
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Wyden
NOT VOTING—3
Inhofe Udall Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 77, the nays are 20.
The motion is agreed to.
The majority leader.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that all
postcloture time on the Bade nomina-
tion expire at 2:15 p.m. tomorrow; fur-
ther, that if confirmed, the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table and the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion. I further ask that following the
disposition of the Bade nomination, the
Senate proceed to legislative session
and resume consideration of the mo-
tion to proceed to S.J. Res. 88, with the
time until 4 p.m. equally divided be-
tween the two leaders or their des-
ignees; finally, notwithstanding the
provisions of rule XXII, that the clo-
ture motions with respect to the mo-
tions to proceed to S.J. Res. 8 and H.R.
268 ripen at 4 p.m. tomorrow.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO WILLARD KINZER
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
today it is my honor to pay tribute to
Willard Kinzer, a one-of-a-kind Ken-
tuckian who will receive a lifetime
achievement award at the beginning of
April. Willard, a leading figure in
Floyd County, seems to have done it
all.
He is a World War II veteran, who
felt compelled to join the Navy after
the attack on Pearl Harbor. Willard’s a
nonstop worker, becoming a prominent
entrepreneur in eastern Kentucky,
leading Kinzer Drilling through expan-
sions and growth. His philanthropy has
helped build schools in his native Appa-
lachia and has supported the Mountain
Arts Center, and perhaps most unex-
pectedly Willard holds the distinction
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.017 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1932 March 25, 2019
as the first individual in history to
drive a stock suspension car faster
than 230 miles per hour. If that weren’t
impressive enough, wait until you hear
that Willard was in his 80s at the time.
He certainly has a notable list of ac-
complishments, and Willard shows no
plans to slow down any time soon. Last
year, he celebrated his 90th birthday by
winning a drag-racing championship at
175 miles per hour, In Willard’s trophy
room, which is packed with the many
awards he has earned over a long ca-
reer of achievement and thrill-seeking,
a sign reads, ‘‘Life begins at 200 mph.’’
It is a fitting motto for a man who
never seems to take his foot off the gas
pedal.
Willard’s local community will con-
tinue to enjoy his many contributions
and inspirational example for genera-
tions to come. I am pleased to see his
incredible life be honored, and I would
like to add my voice to the chorus of
those praising this remarkable Ken-
tuckian. I hope my Senate colleagues
will join me in recognizing Willard
Kinzer for a lifetime of achievement
and to congratulate him on this honor.
f
TRIBUTE TO MAJOR GENERAL
LUKE REINER
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President,
today I wish to honor the service of the
adjutant general of the Wyoming Na-
tional Guard, MG Luke Reiner, to the
State of Wyoming and our Nation.
In 1982, Major General Reiner en-
listed in the Army National Guard. As
a born leader, Luke was commissioned
as an officer in 1986 and subsequently
joined the Wyoming Army National
Guard in 1987. Coming to Wyoming was
the best decision of his career.
Major General Reiner wore many
hats and served at every level of the
Wyoming Army National Guard. From
his first job as the counter fire officer
of the 115th Field Artillery Brigade to
the executive officer of the 2–300 Field
Artillery Battalion, he rose to take
command of the 115th Fires Brigade.
Luke’s operational experience included
a deployment to Kuwait where he com-
manded Camp New York in support of
Operation Iraqi Freedom.
Governor Matt Mead appointed Luke
Reiner as adjutant general, and he
took command on April 1, 2011. Luke
and I got to know each other very well
over years as we worked together to se-
cure funding to modernize the C–130H
fleet. Major General Reiner was the
Wyoming Guard’s advocate in Wash-
ington at the National Guard Bureau
and the Pentagon. He frequently trav-
eled back to Washington and served on
various National Guard committees
and counsels.
Every Thanksgiving, I travel over-
seas to visit with Wyoming servicemen
and women deployed around the world.
Governor Mead, Major General Reiner,
and I spent Thanksgiving with the
133rd Engineering Company stationed
in Bahrain in 2013. It was an honor to
eat Thanksgiving dinner with these
young men and women alongside Major
General Reiner.
On March 28, 2019, Luke will offi-
cially retire as Wyoming’s adjutant
general and hand the colors over to BG
Gregory Porter. Major General Reiner
will remain in Wyoming. I look forward
to continue working closely with him
in his role as director of the Wyoming
Department of Transportation.
Luke epitomizes the ‘‘Code of the
West.’’ Live each day with courage.
Take pride in your work. Do what
needs to be done. We thank him for all
he has done to keep Wyoming and our
Nation safe.
Finally, I want to thank Luke’s wife
Devonna and his two daughters Heath-
er and Holly for allowing Luke to serve
Wyoming and this great Nation. We are
forever thankful.
f
TRIBUTE TO PATRICK TYRRELL
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President,
today I recognize the distinguished ca-
reer of Pat Tyrrell. After more than 18
years of service, Pat is retiring as Wyo-
ming’s longest serving State engineer.
A Wyoming native, Pat grew up in
Cheyenne. He attended the University
of Wyoming in Laramie where he ob-
tained a B.S. in mechanical engineer-
ing and an M.S. in civil engineering. He
began his time in public service in 2001
when Governor Jim Geringer appointed
Pat as Wyoming’s State Engineer. Dur-
ing his tenure, he served under four
Governors and became well known in
the State, region, and Nation as an ex-
pert on all matters related to water re-
sources.
Established under Wyoming’s Con-
stitution, the State engineer serves as
the chief water official in Wyoming.
With Wyoming situated astride the
Continental Divide, the State provides
the headwaters for four major river ba-
sins in the Western United States.
Charged with the regulation and ad-
ministration of the water resources in
Wyoming, Pat’s duties as State engi-
neer ranged from overseeing the per-
mitting and adjudication of water
rights, regulation of the use of water
under the doctrine of prior appropria-
tion, and representing the State on nu-
merous boards, compacts, and commis-
sions. These included Wyoming’s com-
missioner to the Upper Colorado River
Commission, the North Platte Decree
Committee, Western States Water
Council, and the Colorado River Salin-
ity Control Forum. He often served in
leadership roles and worked in coopera-
tion with the other 17 Western States
to manage and develop water re-
sources.
Pat is known for his balanced ap-
proach to water resource management,
ensuring compliance with the law
while also protecting the interests of
Wyoming water users. His expertise
and influence were instrumental in re-
solving decades-long problems, such as
the Big Horn General Adjudication.
As State engineer, he waded through
thousands of water rights in the Big
Horn Basin to bring clarity and cer-
tainty to Federal, Tribal, and State in-
terests in the area and ultimately saw
the end to a 37-year lawsuit. Pat’s re-
flection on this case was emblematic of
his philosophy to water management:
‘‘If we can move water without any ill
effect to existing users, we can make
changes. But we need everybody at the
table.’’
Shortly after I joined the U.S. Sen-
ate, I experienced this philosophy first-
hand. It was during a critical point in
passing the Craig Thomas Snake Head-
waters Legacy Act that Pat met in my
office with key players who were nego-
tiating the final language of the bill.
With his calm demeanor and extraor-
dinary understanding of Western water
law, he was able to provide clarity to
the meaning of certain text in the bill
and assuage all in the room of the prac-
ticality of what the text said and what
was contemplated. Shortly thereafter,
agreement was reached, and the bill
was signed into law. It became clear to
me that one of Pat’s greatest skills is
he builds trust through his knowledge
of the law and how it is applied and is
able to accurately articulate how that
application will or will not impact peo-
ple’s lives.
Pat has used this philosophy in inter-
state water negotiations. Known as the
senior statesman on the river, Pat has
been instrumental in many of the key
decisions related to management of the
Colorado River. Time after time, Pat
has sought cooperation and coordina-
tion to balance the various needs and
demands on the river. From hydro-
power production and ecosystem pro-
tection, to water storage and water de-
livery obligations, Pat has been instru-
mental in crafting creative solutions to
ensure all needs are met.
In the face of nearly two decades of
drought in the Colorado River basin,
his expertise has been invaluable. He
was instrumental in implementing the
river’s 2007 Guidelines and has been in-
timately engaged in development of
the current Colorado River Drought
Contingency Plan, which is currently
being debated in Congress. As Wyo-
ming’s representative on the river, Pat
focused on ensuring the needs met by
the Colorado River today will be main-
tained for future generations.
In the same way Pat has looked out
for Wyoming’s future water needs, he
has also sought to care for the develop-
ment of Wyoming’s future leaders.
Late last year, he and his wife Barbara
established a scholarship fund at the
University of Wyoming to provide fu-
ture students an education in engineer-
ing. Expertise and education in water
management in States like Wyoming is
invaluable, and we can only hope for
more leaders like Pat.
Pat’s service has reached every cor-
ner of the State. The history books will
note his involvement in the 2001 Modi-
fied North Platte Decree, the Yellow-
stone River compact, which involved
an 11-year Supreme Court lawsuit with
the State of Montana, and many other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.030 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1933
March 25, 2019
accomplishments, but those who
worked with him will remember and
hopefully carry on his gentle nature,
deliberate thinking, and dedication to
the law.
I invite all members of the Senate to
join me in congratulating Pat in his re-
tirement, wishing him well and his
family much success in the future.
f
TRIBUTE TO DENISE LOWERY
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President,
along with my colleague, the ranking
member on the Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions Committee, Sen-
ator MURRAY, I wish to pay tribute to
Denise Lowery. Ms. Lowery is a non-
designated employee on the HELP
Committee staff and is retiring at the
end of this month after almost 16 years
of distinguished service to the HELP
Committee.
Ms. Lowery has served as editor for
the committee since 2003, compiling
and sending to print all our committee
reports and materials for the CONGRES-
SIONAL RECORD.
Ms. Lowery is well regarded by all
Members and staff of the committee,
having proven her professionalism,
courtesy, and substantial expertise
over almost 16 years. Without the sup-
port of Ms. Lowery and the rest of the
nondesignated staff, the committee
could not accomplish the important
work the American people expect us to
get done on their behalf. I, the ranking
member, and the rest of the commit-
tee’s members want to recognize Ms.
Lowery for that tremendous contribu-
tion to the Committee as she exits her
time in the Senate.
I wish Ms. Lowery the best and hope
retirement from the Senate will allow
her time for hobbies such as working
on home improvement projects and
spending time with her friends and
family.
I would like to yield now to my col-
league, the ranking member, Senator
MURRAY, for her remarks.
Mrs. MURRAY. I thank Chairman
ALEXANDER and join him in com-
mending Ms. Lowery for her many
years of dedicated and outstanding
service to the HELP Committee, the
Senate, and the American people. I
greatly appreciate the sacrifice that
Ms. Lowery has made over the past 16
years in assisting the HELP Com-
mittee by applying her expertise in ed-
iting, printing, and memorializing our
important work. We wish her all the
best in her well-deserved retirement.
We hope our colleagues will join us in
thanking Ms. Lowery for her service.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
ANTON ART CENTER
∑ Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize the 50th anniversary
of the Anton Art Center in Mount
Clemens, MI. I appreciate the oppor-
tunity to recognize the efforts of the
Anton Art Center to fulfill their mis-
sion to enrich and inspire people of all
ages through the arts.
The Anton Art Center was estab-
lished in 1969 by three members of the
Mount Clemens Art Association: Bea
Wright, Gretchen Thompson, and Phyl-
lis Wickens. Upon its founding, they
took over occupancy of the then Mount
Clemens Public Library to save the his-
torical building from demolition. The
library was built by Andrew Carnegie
in 1903 and opened in 1904 and was one
of approximately 2,500 libraries that
Carnegie funded throughout the world.
The center converted the interior to in-
clude three galleries, an art studio and
meeting area, a pottery studio and kiln
room, and offices. In 2006, local busi-
nessman Gebran Anton led a fund-
raising effort to expand the building
with the addition of a gift shop, an in-
crease in gallery space, and more class-
room space. It is fitting that the center
should occupy a Carnegie Library, a
beautifully designed building that is
now listed in the State of Michigan his-
toric register.
The goals of the Anton Art Center
are to present a wide array of program-
ming to appeal to diverse audiences,
provide support for the arts, and be-
come a focal point for arts program-
ming and work toward inclusion, diver-
sity, equity, and access in all they do.
Through its many programs, the Anton
Art Center has become a leading advo-
cate of the arts and artists in Macomb
County and throughout the sur-
rounding area. In addition to tradi-
tional artist exhibitions, the center of-
fers a multitude of programs for artists
to showcase their work to the public.
There are multiple juried statewide
competitions, as well as two annual
events that include the ART! Macomb
Art Fair and holiday market. The cen-
ter’s gift shop offers yet more oppor-
tunity for the community to support
local artists. The center also supports
the aspiring artist inside many of us by
offering adult and child classes in
many mediums including clay, draw-
ing, mixed media, photography, weav-
ing, and watercolor.
The Anton Art Center also serves as
the Region 10A Re-granting Agency for
the Michigan Council for Arts and Cul-
tural Affairs, MCACA. As such, they
award mini-grants to nonprofit organi-
zations, schools, municipalities, and in-
dividual professional artists in
Macomb and Oakland Counties in sup-
port of arts and culture programming
and professional or organizational de-
velopment. They also provide technical
assistance to organizations applying
for funding through this program.
I am pleased to rise today to ask my
colleagues to join me in recognizing
the 50th anniversary of the Anton Art
Center. They have been a staple of the
arts and cultural scene in Macomb
County for half a century, and I wish
them continued success in the years to
come.∑
TRIBUTE TO SANDRA CARAWAN
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Sandra Carawan, the Gil-
christ County teacher of the year from
Bell Elementary School in Bell, FL.
Sandra is dedicated to her students,
working closely with them each day to
help solve their problems. Her col-
leagues describe her as a tremendous
asset and someone who will help in any
way she can, whether as a teacher or
with administrative duties. She was
named Bell Elementary School’s teach-
er of the year in addition to receiving
the award for the district.
A fifth grade exceptional student
education teacher, Sandra acts as the
lead teacher for her grade level. She
also serves as Bell Elementary School
advisory chair, safety patrol sponsor,
district 21st century evaluator/coordi-
nator, a positive behavior support team
member, and a data evaluator for the
entire Gilchrist County School Dis-
trict. She graduated from Saint Leo
University, earning her bachelor’s de-
gree in Elementary Education in 1999
and her master of education degree in
2007.
I convey my best wishes to Sandra
for her dedication to her students and
school. I look forward to hearing of
this continued success.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO LILLY CHAPPELL
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Lilly Chappell, the Bradford
County teacher of the year from South-
side Elementary School in Starke, FL.
Lilly has enjoyed spreading her pas-
sion for learning to others throughout
her whole life. She has spent 11 years
with the Southside Parent Teacher Or-
ganization, helping to build a play-
ground and sound system for students,
directing musicals with more than 250
students, and making herself available
for a variety of other extracurricular
events throughout the school year.
Lilly has taught in Bradford County
for 20 years, beginning as a writing
coach. She has served at Southside Ele-
mentary School as the lead teacher in
fourth and fifth grade, the K–5 county
gifted instructor, 5th grade English
language arts, and as a history teacher.
She attended the University of Florida
and University of North Florida, study-
ing public relations and elementary 1–
6 education. As a result of her teaching
and mentoring over the years, several
of the students she previously taught
have now become her colleagues.
I extend my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Lilly for her years of
dedication to her student. I look for-
ward to hearing of her continued good
work in the coming years.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO NICOLE KENNGOTT
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
honor Nicole Kenngott, the Pinellas
County teacher of the year from Plumb
Elementary School in Clearwater, FL.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:33 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.034 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1934 March 25, 2019
Nicole specializes in deaf studies and
special-needs education. She uses inno-
vative, research-based teaching meth-
ods to educate her students. She de-
signs lesson plans to promote contin-
uous learning in a teaching environ-
ment meant to encourage and inspire
her students.
Nicole works with students to iden-
tify their fears in order to foster a bet-
ter growth mindset and develop an en-
thusiasm for learning. Last year, 60
percent of her students earned a level
three or higher on the State English
test, compared to 51 percent in Pinellas
County schools.
Nicole earned her master’s degree
from Dowling College and has taught
at Plumb Elementary School for 3
years. She follows a teaching style
based on a growth mindset and Con-
versation, Help, Activity, Movement,
Participation, and Success or
CHAMPS. She also uses the strategies
of Advanced Via Individual Determina-
tion teaching and restorative practices.
I express my sincere gratitude to Ni-
cole for her commitment to helping her
students succeed in school. I look for-
ward to learning of her continued suc-
cess in the years to come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MELISSA PAPPAS
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
honor Melissa Pappas, the Orange
County teacher of the year from
Brookshire Elementary School in Win-
ter Park, FL.
Melissa is a K–5 intensive autism
teacher that works with children with
severe behavioral functional and aca-
demic needs. She is motivated by her
passion for her students and is respon-
sible for one of only five intensive
units districtwide, serving students
with severe behavioral, functional, and
academic needs. She believes teaching
is not only a profession that teaches all
other professions, but the one with the
power to shape the future for all types
of learners.
In the past year, she launched a
schoolwide initiative during Autism
Awareness Month to educate members
of the school community to promote
acceptance, love, and understanding of
those with autism and special needs.
As a result of the initiative, many stu-
dents performed random acts of kind-
ness and engaged students with
exceptionalities.
I extend my sincere thanks and grati-
tude to Melissa for her devotion to
helping her students succeed in life. I
look forward to learning of her contin-
ued success in the coming years.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO LAURA WYKOFF
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Laura Wykoff, the Alachua
County teacher of the year from Fort
Clarke Middle School in Gainesville,
FL.
Laura keeps letters from her stu-
dents to remind her of the importance
of her job. After receiving this award,
she shared many of these letters with
those in attendance at the award cere-
mony. The letters consist of humorous
ones on learning about integers, alge-
bra, and other math subjects to serious
ones about how, if it was not for Laura,
they would not have been successful in
school. She considers these examples as
an important reason for why she does
her job.
Laura considers teaching her stu-
dents and realizing that they under-
stand something and that makes a stu-
dent feel good about themselves as the
best part of the job. At the award cere-
mony, one of her former students cred-
ited Laura with his success and noted
that she has always been there for him.
Laura has taught for more than 10
years and is currently a seventh and
eighth grade mathematics teacher at
Fort Clarke Middle School, where she
has been since 2015. Her family consists
of a long line of academics, and Laura
believes teaching is in their blood.
I offer my sincere thanks and grati-
tude to Laura for her dedication to her
students throughout her career. I look
forward to hearing of her continued
success in the years ahead.∑
f
RECOGNIZING SOUTHERN CRAFT
CREAMERY
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, as chair-
man of the Committee on Small Busi-
ness and Entrepreneurship, each week I
recognize a small business that exem-
plifies the unique American entrepre-
neurial spirit. It is my privilege to
honor a Florida small business that not
only produces an amazing product, but
also tirelessly serves their community.
Today, I recognize Southern Craft
Creamery, of Marianna, FL, as the Sen-
ate Small Business of the Week.
Founded in 2012, Southern Craft
Creamery is owned and operated by
Dale and Cindy Eade, with the help of
their children. After selling their
handcrafted ice cream wholesale for 6
years, the Eade family opened its first
brick-and-mortar location last Feb-
ruary.
Southern Craft Creamery is a true
family-run business. While Dale and
Cindy’s daughter, Megan Austin, along
with her husband Brad, currently man-
age Cindale Farms, a local dairy farm
where Southern Craft Creamery
sources its milk, Lauren and Zach
O’Bryan, Dale and Cindy’s daughter
and son-in-law, initially launched the
ice cream brand. Having been involved
in the Florida dairy business since 1980,
it is no surprise that the Eade family’s
ice cream is crafted to showcase the
quality milk they produce and the deli-
cious southern ingredients they grew
up with.
Today, Southern Craft Creamery
sells a wide variety of signature ice
cream flavors including tupelo honey,
salty caramel, and candied bacon, as
well as seasonal flavors such as rasp-
berry basil, bourbon butter pecan, and
blackberry buttermilk.
Southern Craft Creamery has been
repeatedly recognized for these deli-
cious flavors, being named the overall
food winner in the 2013 Made in the
South Awards by ‘‘Garden & Gun’’
magazine and by ‘‘Southern Living’’
magazine in the Best Sweets category
for the magazine’s 2015 food awards.
Southern Craft Creamery creates
these remarkable ice cream flavors by
sourcing many of their ingredients
from other local, family-owned small
businesses. Working with local farmers
and producers has allowed Southern
Craft Creamery to give back to their
community while also receiving the
freshest and most flavorful ingredients
available. They also work with re-
gional, family-owned retailers to sell
their ice cream throughout Florida.
Southern Craft Creamery and the
Eade family seek to give back to their
community in any way possible. After
Hurricane Michael devastated their
community, they gathered supplies for
victims, opened their doors to allow
residents to cool off, and offered free
coffee and ice cream to first respond-
ers. Prior to December 2018, Southern
Craft donated all of their tips to Part-
ners for Pets, a nonprofit animal shel-
ter in Marianna. Since December 2018,
however, all of their tips have been do-
nated to Friends of the Florida Caverns
State Park in an effort to assist in re-
planting trees and repair damages
caused by Hurricane Michael.
The Eade family’s work to grow
Southern Craft Creamery, support
local farmers, and aid members of their
community is an excellent example of
civic dedication. Companies like
Southern Craft Creamery are the
heartbeat of local, small-town commu-
nities across Florida. I would like to
congratulate Southern Craft Creamery
on their 1-year anniversary of opening
their storefront and for being named
the Senate Small Business of the Week.
I wish them good luck and look for-
ward to watching their continued
growth and success.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:02 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that pursuant to 15 U.S.C.
1024(a), and the order of the House of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.036 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1935
March 25, 2019
January 3, 2019, the Speaker appoints
the following Members on the part of
the House of Representatives to the
Joint Economic Committee: Mr.
SCHWEIKERT of Arizona, Mr. LAHOOD of
Illinois, Mr. MARCHANT of Texas, and
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER of Washington.
The message also announced that
pursuant to section 306(k) of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 242k), and
the order of the House of January 3,
2019, the Speaker reappoints the fol-
lowing individual on the part of the
House of Representatives to the Na-
tional Committee on Vital and Health
Statistics for a term of 4 years: Dr.
Vickie M. Mays of Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–619. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘External
Marking Requirement for Small Unmanned
Aircraft’’ (RIN2120–AL32) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–620. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments (53);
Amendment No. 3833’’ (RIN2120–AA65) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–621. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments (14);
Amendment No. 3834’’ (RIN2120–AA65) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–622. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3835’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–623. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3836’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–624. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments (68);
Amendment No. 3837’’ (RIN2120–AA65) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–625. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments (54);
Amendment No. 3838’’ (RIN2120–AA65) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–626. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3839’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–627. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3840’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–628. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments (27);
Amendment No. 3841’’ (RIN2120–AA65) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–629. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments (37);
Amendment No. 3842’’ (RIN2120–AA65) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–630. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Restricted Areas R–5502A and R–
5502B; Lacarne, Ohio’’ ((RIN2120–AA66)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–1080)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–631. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Restricted Areas R–5502A and R–
5502B; Lacarne, Ohio’’ ((RIN2120–AA66)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–1080)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–632. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace; Auburn, Ne-
braska’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0974)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–633. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace; Williston, North
Dakota’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0250)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–634. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace; Coushatta, Lou-
isiana’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0787)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–635. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace and Amendment of
Class E Airspace; Ephrata, Washington’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2017–
01031)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–636. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace, Amendment of
Class D Airspace, and Revocation of Class E
Airspace; Tacoma, Washington’’ ((RIN2120–
AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2017–1032)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on March
21, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–637. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Flippin, Arkansas’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0952))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–638. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Corry, Pennsyl-
vania’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0998)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:33 Jun 07, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\MARCH\S25MR9.REC S25MR9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1936 March 25, 2019
EC–639. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Oscoda, Michigan’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0879))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–640. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; West Union, Iowa’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0827))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–641. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Lawrenceville, Illi-
nois’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0828)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–642. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Carrizo Springs,
Texas’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0940)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–643. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Auburn, Illinois’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0987))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–644. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace for the Following
Alaska Towns: Toksook Bay, Alaska; Una-
lakleet, Alaska; Wainwright, Alaska; and
Yakutat, Alaska’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket
No. FAA–2017–0350)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–645. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Jackman, Maine,
and Revocation of Class E Airspace; Newton
Field, Maine’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No.
FAA–2015–2892)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–646. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revoca-
tion of Class E Airspace; Beeville-Chase
Field, Texas’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No.
FAA–2018–0917)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–647. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Modifica-
tion of Class E Airspace for the Following
Alaska Towns: Hooper Bay, Alaska; Kaltag,
Alaska; King Salmon, Alaska; Kodiak, Alas-
ka; Manokotak, Alaska; and Middleton Is-
land, Alaska’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No.
FAA–2017–0347)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–648. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D and Class E Airspace;
Atwater, California’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Dock-
et No. FAA–2017–1091)) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–649. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D and Class E Airspace; Sche-
nectady, New York, and Albany, New York’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0256))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–650. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D and Class E Airspace; Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket
No. FAA–2018–0829)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–651. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D and Class E Airspace; Eau
Claire, Wisconsin’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket
No. FAA–2018–0236)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–652. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class D and Class E Airspace, and
Establishment of Class E Airspace; Honolulu
Hawaii’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–
2014–0878)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–653. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Helicopters’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0694))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–654. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Helicopters Deutsch-
land GmbH (Previously Eurocopter Deutsch-
land GmbH) Helicopters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2017–1126)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–655. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Helicopters Deutsch-
land GmbH Helicopters (Type Certificate
Previously Held By Eurocopter Deutschland
GmbH) Helicopters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Dock-
et No. FAA–2013–0555)) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–656. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus Helicopters Deutsch-
land GmbH Helicopters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–0336)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–657. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0762))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–658. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0788))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–659. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–1003))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–660. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0554))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.005 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1937
March 25, 2019
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–661. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0904))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–662. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0962))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–663. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0907))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–664. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0556))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–665. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0906))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–666. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0508))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–667. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0705))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–668. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0806))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–669. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0957))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–670. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bell Helicopter Textron Can-
ada Limited Helicopters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–0647)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–671. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0635))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–672. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0710))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–673. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Dassault Aviation Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0963)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–674. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Dassault Aviation Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0115)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–675. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Dassault Aviation Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0643)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–676. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Embraer S.A. Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0905))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–677. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Empresa Brasileria
Aeronautica S.A. (Embraer) Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0118))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–678. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Engine Alliance Turbofan
Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0048)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–679. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Engine Alliance Turbofan
Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0050)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–680. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Fokker Services B.V. Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0956)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–681. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; General Electric Company
Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket
No. FAA–2019–0042)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–682. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Gulfstream Aerospace LP
Airplanes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2018–1006)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–683. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; International Aero Engines
Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:33 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.007 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1938 March 25, 2019
No. FAA–2018–0735)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–684. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Leonardo S.P.A. Heli-
copters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0092)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–685. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; MD Helicopters, Inc. (MDHI)
Helicopters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2018–0991)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–686. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Pacific Aerospace Limited
Airplanes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2018–0385)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–687. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Pacific Aerospace Limited
Airplanes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2019–0047)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–688. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Pratt & Whitney Division
(PW) Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–0826)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–689. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Pratt & Whitney Turbofan
Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0624)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–690. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Rolls-Royce PLC Turbofan
Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0056)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–691. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Safran Helicopter Engines,
S.A., Turboshaft Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–0949)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–692. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Saab Aeronautics Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0964)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–693. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2016–9189)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–694. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0959)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–695. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0581)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–696. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0902)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–697. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0580)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–698. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0409)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–699. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0162)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–700. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0793)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–701. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Viking Air Limited (Type
Certificate Previously Held by Bombardier,
Inc.; Canadair Limited) Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0638))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–702. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Zodiac Aerotechnics Oxygen
Mask Regulators’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket
No. FAA–2017–0505)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. HOEVEN, from the Committee on
Indian Affairs, without amendment:
S. 224. A bill to provide for the conveyance
of certain property to the Tanana Tribal
Council located in Tanana, Alaska, and to
the Bristol Bay Area Health Corporation lo-
cated in Dillingham, Alaska, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–10).
S. 256. A bill to amend the Native Amer-
ican Programs Act of 1974 to provide flexi-
bility and reauthorization to ensure the sur-
vival and continuing vitality of Native
American languages (Rept. No. 116–11).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute:
S. 380. A bill to increase access to agency
guidance documents (Rept. No. 116–12).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with amendments:
S. 394. A bill to amend the Presidential
Transition Act of 1963 to improve the orderly
transfer of the executive power during Presi-
dential transitions (Rept. No. 116–13).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.009 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1939
March 25, 2019
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
S. 395. A bill to require each agency, in
providing notice of a rule making, to include
a link to a 100 word plain language summary
of the proposed rule (Rept. No. 116–14).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment:
S. 406. A bill to establish a Federal rota-
tional cyber workforce program for the Fed-
eral cyber workforce (Rept. No. 116–15).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute:
H.R. 504. A bill to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to require the Department
of Homeland Security to develop an engage-
ment strategy with fusion centers, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–16).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Activities of the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs’’ (Rept. No. 116–17).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself and Mr.
ROUNDS):
S. 853. A bill to amend the John S. McCain
III, Daniel K. Akaka, and Samuel R. Johnson
VA Maintaining Internal Systems and
Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks
Act of 2018 to eliminate the Asset and Infra-
structure Review Commission of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. WYDEN, and Mr. MARKEY):
S. 854. A bill to require human rights cer-
tifications for arms sales, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. BOOKER, and Ms. ERNST):
S. 855. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to make it a criminal offense
for individuals to engage in sexual acts while
acting under color of law or with individuals
in their custody, to encourage States to
adopt similar laws, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and
Mr. INHOFE):
S. 856. A bill to allow State manufacturing
extension partnerships to award grants to
small- and medium-sized manufacturers for
the purpose of training new workers to re-
place departing experienced workers; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Mr.
GRAHAM):
S. 857. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to increase the amount of spe-
cial pension for Medal of Honor recipients,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S. 858. A bill to require the Secretary of
Defense to provide blood testing for fire-
fighters of the Department of Defense to de-
termine potential exposure to perfluoroalkyl
and polyfluoroalkyl substances, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Mr. GARDNER:
S. 859. A bill to amend the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 to reauthorize hydroelectric pro-
duction incentives and hydroelectric effi-
ciency improvement incentives, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. GARDNER:
S. 860. A bill to amend the Omnibus Public
Land Management Act of 2009 to modify the
terms of the Jackson Gulch rehabilitation
project in Colorado, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. CARDIN, Mr.
CASEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. SMITH,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
REED, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. SANDERS,
Ms. HARRIS, and Mr. MURPHY):
S. 861. A bill to establish in the Bureau of
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor of the
Department of State a Special Envoy for the
Human Rights of LGBTI Peoples, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr.
BOOKER, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 862. A bill to repeal the sunset for collat-
eral requirements for Small Business Admin-
istration disaster loans; to the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr.
TESTER):
S. 863. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify the grade and pay of
podiatrists of the Department of Veterans
Affairs; considered and passed.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL:
S. 864. A bill to provide for further com-
prehensive research at the National Institute
of Neurological Disorders and Stroke on
unruptured intracranial aneurysms; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. SULLIVAN:
S. 865. A bill to amend the Oil Pollution
Act of 1990 to establish an oil spill response
and prevention grant program and provide
for advances from the Oil Spill Liability
Trust Fund, to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to extend and modify the appli-
cation of the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund
financing rate, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr.
TOOMEY, Mr. CRAMER, Mrs. BLACK-
BURN, Mr. YOUNG, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. LEE, Mr. SASSE, Mr.
ROMNEY, Mr. CRAPO, Mrs. CAPITO, and
Mr. DAINES):
S.J. Res. 14. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States to require that the Supreme
Court of the United States be composed of
not more than 9 justices; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. Res. 120. A resolution opposing efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel and the Glob-
al Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions
Movement targeting Israel; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr.
ENZI):
S. Res. 121. A resolution congratulating
Israel and Egypt on the 40th anniversary of
the signing of the Egypt-Israel Peace Treaty;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 22
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 22, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for coverage of dental services
under the Medicare program.
S. 91
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 91, a bill to amend title
38, United States Code, to authorize per
diem payments under comprehensive
service programs for homeless veterans
to furnish care to dependents of home-
less veterans, and for other purposes.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 172, a bill to delay the re-
imposition of the annual fee on health
insurance providers until after 2021.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
178, a bill to condemn gross human
rights violations of ethnic Turkic Mus-
lims in Xinjiang, and calling for an end
to arbitrary detention, torture, and
harassment of these communities in-
side and outside China.
S. 191
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 191, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Defense to include in periodic health
assessments, separation history and
physical examinations, and other as-
sessments an evaluation of whether a
member of the Armed Forces has been
exposed to open burn pits or toxic air-
borne chemicals, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 203, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to per-
manently extend the railroad track
maintenance credit, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 211
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 211, a bill to amend the Vic-
tims of Crime Act of 1984 to secure ur-
gent resources vital to Indian victims
of crime, and for other purposes.
S. 215
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. SHELBY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 215, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the es-
tate and generation-skipping transfer
taxes, and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:47 Jun 07, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\MARCH\S25MR9.REC S25MR9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1940 March 25, 2019
S. 237
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 237, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to permit nurse
practitioners and physician assistants
to satisfy the documentation require-
ment under the Medicare program for
coverage of certain shoes for individ-
uals with diabetes.
S. 253
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 253, a bill to coordinate
the provision of energy retrofitting as-
sistance to schools.
S. 258
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 258, a bill to prohibit oil and gas
leasing on the National Forest System
land in the Ruby Mountains Ranger
District located in the Humboldt-
Toiyabe National Forest, Elko and
White Pine Counties, Nevada, and for
other purposes.
S. 266
At the request of Mr. REED, the name
of the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
SMITH) was added as a cosponsor of S.
266, a bill to provide for the long-term
improvement of public school facili-
ties, and for other purposes.
S. 295
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added
as cosponsors of S. 295, a bill to estab-
lish the Rural Export Center, and for
other purposes.
S. 296
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) and the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII of
the Social Security Act to ensure more
timely access to home health services
for Medicare beneficiaries under the
Medicare program.
S. 319
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 319, a bill to improve the repro-
ductive assistance provided by the De-
partment of Defense and the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to severely
wounded, ill, or injured members of the
Armed Forces, veterans, and their
spouses or partners, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 349
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 349, a bill to require the
Secretary of Transportation to request
nominations for, and make determina-
tions regarding, roads to be designated
under the national scenic byways pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 380
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN) and the Senator from
North Carolina (Mr. TILLIS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 380, a bill to in-
crease access to agency guidance docu-
ments.
S. 386
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from North Dakota (Mr.
HOEVEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
386, a bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to eliminate the
per-country numerical limitation for
employment-based immigrants, to in-
crease the per-country numerical limi-
tation for family-sponsored immi-
grants, and for other purposes.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 433, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to im-
prove home health payment reforms
under the Medicare program.
S. 454
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
454, a bill to direct the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to establish the
Office of Rural Broadband, and for
other purposes.
S. 456
At the request of Mr. REED, the name
of the Senator from Delaware (Mr.
COONS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
456, a bill to provide for the adjustment
of status of certain nationals of Liberia
to that of lawful permanent residents,
and for other purposes.
S. 465
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from New
Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 465, a bill to amend
the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act of 1968 to make reforms to
the benefits for Public Service Officers,
and for other purposes.
S. 500
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) and the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) were added as cosponsors
of S. 500, a bill to amend title 54,
United States Code, to establish, fund,
and provide for the use of amounts in a
National Park Service Legacy Restora-
tion Fund to address the maintenance
backlog of the National Park Service,
and for other purposes.
S. 504
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from
South Dakota (Mr. THUNE) and the
Senator from Wyoming (Mr. BARRASSO)
were added as cosponsors of S. 504, a
bill to amend title 36, United States
Code, to authorize The American Le-
gion to determine the requirements for
membership in The American Legion,
and for other purposes.
S. 506
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) and the Senator from Ha-
waii (Ms. HIRONO) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 506, a bill to support
State, Tribal, and local efforts to re-
move access to firearms from individ-
uals who are a danger to themselves or
others pursuant to court orders for this
purpose.
S. 546
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 546, a bill to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Com-
pensation Fund of 2001 through fiscal
year 2090, and for other purposes.
S. 576
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 576, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to provide for a
presumption of herbicide exposure for
certain veterans who served in Korea,
and for other purposes.
S. 578
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 578, a bill to amend title
II of the Social Security Act to elimi-
nate the five-month waiting period for
disability insurance benefits under
such title for individuals with
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
S. 582
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 582, a bill to ensure
that the Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network works with Tribal law en-
forcement agencies, protects against
all forms of terrorism, and focuses on
virtual currencies.
S. 598
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
598, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to increase certain funeral
benefits for veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 631
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 631, a bill to provide for the ad-
mission of the State of Washington,
D.C. into the Union.
S. 677
At the request of Mr. SANDERS, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 677, a bill to amend the
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 to pro-
vide for the participation of Puerto
Rico, American Samoa, and the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands in the supplemental nutrition as-
sistance program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 684
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.022 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1941
March 25, 2019
ROBERTS) and the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 684, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal
the excise tax on high-cost employer-
sponsored health coverage.
S. 692
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 692, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal
the excise tax on medical devices.
S. 696
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN), the Senator from
Oregon (Mr. WYDEN) and the Senator
from New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 696, a
bill to designate the same individual
serving as the Chief Nurse Officer of
the Public Health Service as the Na-
tional Nurse for Public Health.
S. 703
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 703, a bill to
amend title 10, United States Code, to
address health, safety, and environ-
mental hazards at private military
housing units, to prohibit the payment
by members of the Armed Forces of de-
posits or other fees relating to such
housing units, and for other purposes.
S. 726
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 726, a bill to amend the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
to ensure the safety of cosmetics.
S. 741
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) and the Senator from Alaska
(Ms. MURKOWSKI) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 741, a bill to amend the Pub-
lic Health Service Act to require group
and individual health insurance cov-
erage and group health plans to provide
for cost sharing for oral anticancer
drugs on terms no less favorable than
the cost sharing provided for
anticancer medications administered
by a health care provider.
S. 758
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the names of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 758, a bill to ensure af-
fordable abortion coverage and care for
every woman, and for other purposes.
S. 791
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 791, a bill to
amend title 38, United States Code, to
provide for clarification regarding the
children to whom entitlement to edu-
cational assistance may be transferred
under the Post-9/11 Educational Assist-
ance Program, and for other purposes.
S. 817
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 817, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to remove silenc-
ers from the definition of firearms, and
for other purposes.
S. 820
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
820, a bill to strengthen programs au-
thorized under the Debbie Smith Act of
2004.
S. 850
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 850, a bill to extend the authoriza-
tion of appropriations to the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs for purposes
of awarding grants to veterans service
organizations for the transportation of
highly rural veterans.
S.J. RES. 11
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S.J. Res. 11, a joint resolution to
prohibit the unauthorized use of United
States Armed Forces in hostilities with
respect to Venezuela.
S. CON. RES. 5
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Con. Res. 5, a concurrent resolu-
tion supporting the Local Radio Free-
dom Act.
S. RES. 59
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 59, a resolution rec-
ognizing the duty of the Federal Gov-
ernment to create a Green New Deal.
S. RES. 74
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 74, a resolution
marking the fifth anniversary of
Ukraine’s Revolution of Dignity by
honoring the bravery, determination,
and sacrifice of the people of Ukraine
during and since the Revolution, and
condemning continued Russian aggres-
sion against Ukraine.
S. RES. 111
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 111, a resolution recognizing
the heritage, culture, and contribu-
tions of Latinas in the United States.
S. RES. 112
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 112, a resolution
expressing the sense of the Senate that
the United States condemns all forms
of violence against children globally
and recognizes the harmful impacts of
violence against children.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and
Mr. TESTER):
S. 863. A bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to clarify the
grade and pay of podiatrists of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs; consid-
ered and passed.
S. 863
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CLARIFICATION OF GRADE AND PAY
OF PODIATRISTS OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) GRADE.—The list in section 7404(b) of
title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘PODIATRIC SURGEON
(DPM)’’ and inserting ‘‘PODIATRIST’’; and
(2) by inserting after the item relating to
‘‘Physician and surgeon grade.’’ the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Podiatrist grade.’’.
(b) PAY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 7431 of such title
is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘physician and dentist’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘physi-
cian, podiatrist, and dentist’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘physicians and dentists’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘physi-
cians, podiatrists, and dentists’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘physician or dentist’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘physician,
podiatrist, or dentist’’;
(D) by striking ‘‘physicians or dentists’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘physi-
cians, podiatrists, or dentists’’;
(E) by striking ‘‘Physician and Dentist’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Physi-
cian, Podiatrist, and Dentist’’; and
(F) in subsection (e)(1)(A), by inserting
‘‘podiatrists and’’ before ‘‘dentists.’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS.—Section 7433
of such title is amended by striking ‘‘physi-
cians and dentists’’ each place it appears and
inserting ‘‘physicians, podiatrists, and den-
tists’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The heading
of subchapter III of chapter 74 of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘, PODIATRISTS,’’
after ‘‘PHYSICIANS’’.
(4) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 74 of
such title is amended by striking the item
relating to subchapter III and inserting the
following new item:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER III—PAY FOR PHYSICIANS,
PODIATRISTS, AND DENTISTS’’.
(5) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 7433 of
such title is further amended—
(A) by striking subsection (b);
(B) in subsection (a)—
(i) by striking ‘‘(1) The Secretary’’ and in-
serting ‘‘The Secretary’’; and
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (2) as sub-
section (b); and
(C) in subsection (b), as so redesignated—
(i) by striking ‘‘In prescribing’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘RECOMMENDATIONS AND VIEWS.—In pre-
scribing’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘this paragraph’’ and in-
serting ‘‘this subsection’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.024 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1942 March 25, 2019
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 120—OPPOS-
ING EFFORTS TO DELEGITIMIZE
THE STATE OF ISRAEL AND THE
GLOBAL BOYCOTT, DIVESTMENT,
AND SANCTIONS MOVEMENT
TARGETING ISRAEL
Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN) submitted the following res-
olution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 120
Whereas the democratic Jewish State of
Israel is a key ally and strategic partner of
the United States;
Whereas, since Israel’s founding in 1948,
Congress has repeatedly expressed our Na-
tion’s unwavering commitment to the secu-
rity of Israel as a Jewish and democratic
state;
Whereas United States policy has long
sought to bring peace to the Middle East and
recognized that both the Israeli and Pales-
tinian people should be able to live in safe
and sovereign states, free from fear and vio-
lence, with mutual recognition;
Whereas support for peace between the
Israelis and Palestinians has long-standing
bipartisan support in Congress;
Whereas it is the long-standing policy of
the United States that a peaceful resolution
to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict should
come through direct negotiations between
the Government of Israel and the Palestinian
Authority, with the support of countries in
the region and around the world;
Whereas it is a hallmark of American de-
mocracy for citizens to petition the United
States Government in favor of or against
United States foreign policy;
Whereas cooperation between Israel and
the United States is of great importance, es-
pecially in the context of rising anti-Semi-
tism, authoritarianism, and security prob-
lems in Europe, the Middle East, and North
Africa;
Whereas the Global Boycott, Divestment,
and Sanctions Movement (BDS Movement)
targeting Israel is a campaign that does not
favor a two-state solution and that seeks to
exclude the State of Israel and the Israeli
people from the economic, cultural, and aca-
demic life of the rest of the world;
Whereas the BDS Movement targets not
only the Government of Israel, but also aca-
demic, cultural, and civil society institu-
tions in Israel, as well as individual Israeli
citizens of all political persuasions, reli-
gions, and ethnicities, and in some cases
even Jews of other nationalities who support
Israel;
Whereas the BDS Movement does not rec-
ognize, and many of its supporters explicitly
deny, the right of the Jewish people to na-
tional self-determination;
Whereas a founder of the BDS Movement
has denied the right of the Jewish people in
their homeland, saying, ‘‘We oppose a Jewish
state in any part of Palestine. No Pales-
tinian, rational Palestinian, not a sell-out
Palestinian, will ever accept a Jewish state
in Palestine.’’;
Whereas university-based BDS efforts vio-
late the core goals of the university and
global cultural development, which thrive on
free and open exchange and debate; and
Whereas the BDS Movement promotes
principles of collective guilt, mass punish-
ment, and group isolation, which are de-
structive of prospects for progress towards
peace and a two-state solution: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) opposes the Global Boycott, Divest-
ment, and Sanctions Movement (BDS Move-
ment) targeting Israel, including efforts to
target United States companies that are en-
gaged in commercial activities that are legal
under United States law and all efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel;
(2) affirms that the BDS Movement under-
mines the possibility for a negotiated solu-
tion to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict by de-
manding concessions of one party alone and
encouraging the Palestinians to reject nego-
tiations in favor of international pressure;
(3) urges Israelis and Palestinians to re-
turn to direct negotiations as the only way
to achieve an end to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict;
(4) supports the full implementation of the
United States-Israel Strategic Partnership
Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–296; 128 Stat. 4075)
and new efforts to enhance governmentwide,
coordinated United States-Israel scientific
and technological cooperation in civilian
areas, such as with respect to energy, water,
agriculture, alternative fuel technology, ci-
vilian space technology, and security, in
order to counter the effects of actions to
boycott, divest from, or sanction Israel; and
(5) reaffirms its strong support for a nego-
tiated solution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict resulting in two states—a demo-
cratic Jewish State of Israel and a viable
democratic Palestinian state—living side-by-
side in peace, security, and mutual recogni-
tion.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 121—CON-
GRATULATING ISRAEL AND
EGYPT ON THE 40TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE SIGNING OF THE
EGYPT-ISRAEL PEACE TREATY
Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr.
ENZI) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 121
Whereas Muhammad Anwar al-Sadat,
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and
Menachem Begin, Prime Minister of Israel,
met with President Jimmy Carter at Camp
David, Maryland from September 5 to Sep-
tember 17, 1978;
Whereas these negotiations resulted in two
agreements, known as the ‘‘Camp David Ac-
cords’’, which were signed on September 17,
1978;
Whereas those accords provided a frame-
work for peace between Israel and Egypt
that stands as a landmark, ending a genera-
tion of war and violence;
Whereas the Egypt-Israel Peace Treaty
was signed on March 26, 1979, at the White
House in Washington, D.C., ending 31 years
of war between the two nations;
Whereas the peace treaty was duly imple-
mented, resulting in—
(1) the normalization of diplomatic and
commercial ties between Egypt and Israel;
(2) the withdrawal of Israeli troops from
the Sinai Peninsula and the establishment of
a demilitarized zone;
(3) the free passage of Israeli ships through
the Suez Canal; and
(4) Egypt becoming the first Arab state to
officially recognize Israel;
Whereas President Sadat and Prime Min-
ister Begin were jointly awarded the Nobel
Peace Prize in 1978;
Whereas President Sadat was assassinated
on October 6, 1981, by Khalid Islambouli, a
member of Egyptian Islamic Jihad;
Whereas President Carter was awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize in 2002, in part for his
vital contribution to the Camp David Ac-
cords and following peace process;
Whereas Congress, on December 4, 2018,
passed legislation awarding the Congres-
sional Gold Medal to President Sadat;
Whereas the Camp David Accords and re-
sulting peace treaty have proven to be an en-
during achievement, furthering the interests
of peace and stability in a volatile region of
the world;
Whereas the United States has proudly
supported the participants of this historic
agreement over the last four decades of
peace; and
Whereas March 26, 2019, marks the 40th an-
niversary of the signing of the Egypt-Israel
Peace Treaty: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates the Governments and
people of Israel and Egypt for 40 years of
peace based on the Camp David Accords;
(2) encourages the Governments of Egypt
and Israel to continue to serve as examples
of honest statesmanship and peacebuilding;
(3) commends the example set for the world
in seeking peaceful and long-lasting resolu-
tions to conflict; and
(4) requests the President to issue a procla-
mation to observe the anniversary with ap-
propriate ceremonies and programs.
f
AMENDING TITLE 38, UNITED
STATES CODE, TO CLARIFY THE
GRADE AND PAY OF PODIA-
TRISTS OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. 863.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 863) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify the grade and pay of
podiatrists of the Department of Veterans
Affairs.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time and passed
and that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER: Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 863) was ordered to be en-
grossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed as follows:
S. 863
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CLARIFICATION OF GRADE AND PAY
OF PODIATRISTS OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) GRADE.—The list in section 7404(b) of
title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘PODIATRIC SURGEON
(DPM)’’ and inserting ‘‘PODIATRIST’’; and
(2) by inserting after the item relating to
‘‘Physician and surgeon grade.’’ the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Podiatrist grade.’’.
(b) PAY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 7431 of such title
is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘physician and dentist’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘physi-
cian, podiatrist, and dentist’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.021 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1943
March 25, 2019
(B) by striking ‘‘physicians and dentists’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘physi-
cians, podiatrists, and dentists’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘physician or dentist’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘physician,
podiatrist, or dentist’’;
(D) by striking ‘‘physicians or dentists’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘physi-
cians, podiatrists, or dentists’’;
(E) by striking ‘‘Physician and Dentist’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Physi-
cian, Podiatrist, and Dentist’’; and
(F) in subsection (e)(1)(A), by inserting
‘‘podiatrists and’’ before ‘‘dentists.’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS.—Section 7433
of such title is amended by striking ‘‘physi-
cians and dentists’’ each place it appears and
inserting ‘‘physicians, podiatrists, and den-
tists’’.
(3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The heading
of subchapter III of chapter 74 of such title is
amended by inserting ‘‘, PODIATRISTS,’’
after ‘‘PHYSICIANS’’.
(4) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 74 of
such title is amended by striking the item
relating to subchapter III and inserting the
following new item:
‘‘SUBCHAPTER III—PAY FOR PHYSICIANS,
PODIATRISTS, AND DENTISTS’’.
(5) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 7433 of
such title is further amended—
(A) by striking subsection (b);
(B) in subsection (a)—
(i) by striking ‘‘(1) The Secretary’’ and in-
serting ‘‘The Secretary’’; and
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (2) as sub-
section (b); and
(C) in subsection (b), as so redesignated—
(i) by striking ‘‘In prescribing’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘RECOMMENDATIONS AND VIEWS.—In pre-
scribing’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘this paragraph’’ and in-
serting ‘‘this subsection’’.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, MARCH 26,
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Tuesday, March
26, 2019; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for use
later in the day, and morning business
be closed; that the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Bade nomination under the
previous order; finally, that the Senate
recess from 12:30 until 2:15 to allow for
the weekly conference meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. If there is no fur-
ther business to come before the Sen-
ate, I ask unanimous consent that it
stand adjourned under the previous
order following the remarks of our
Democratic colleagues.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, it
is my great honor and pleasure to be
joined on the floor today by my senior
Senator from Rhode Island, the rank-
ing member of the Senate Armed Serv-
ices Committee, Senator JACK REED.
We are here today on the Senate floor
to speak about the perils that climate
change poses to America’s national se-
curity.
I am going to frame my remarks
around a fact and a proposition.
The fact, as reported in the 2017 cli-
mate science report, is that the oceans
of the world are absorbing more than 9
zettajoules of heat energy each year.
The proposition is one that I think
most of us agree with—that America is
and remains the world’s indispensable
Nation, exceptional and exemplary.
Let’s unpack that fact a little bit.
More than 9 zettajoules of heat energy
go into the ocean every year.
First, what is a zettajoule? A
zettajoule is sextillion joules, or 10 to
the 21st power joules. That is a lot of
zeros. More practically, 9 zettajoules is
around a dozen times humankind’s
total annual energy consumption.
More kinetically speaking, the added
heat in our oceans is equivalent to four
Hiroshima-sized nuclear bombs explod-
ing in the oceans every second—every
second. So every minute, 240 Hiroshima
blasts in the ocean—in the time of my
remarks, probably 3,000 Hiroshima ex-
plosions—with the oceans capturing all
of that heat energy.
Let’s go back to the proposition that
America is the world’s indispensable
and exemplary Nation. Years ago, Dan-
iel Webster probably said it best, de-
scribing the work of our Founders as
having ‘‘set the world an example.’’ His
was not a unique vision of America.
From Jonathan Winthrop at the begin-
ning to Ronald Reagan recently, we
have called ourselves a city on a hill,
set high for the world to witness. From
President Kennedy to President
Obama, inaugural addresses have noted
that the glow of our ideals ‘‘light[s] the
world.’’ President Clinton argued that
‘‘[p]eople the world over have always
been more impressed by the power of
our example than the example of our
power.’’
When Daniel Webster said that our
Founding Fathers had set the world an
example, he went on to say this: ‘‘The
last hopes of mankind, therefore, rest
with us; and if it should be proclaimed
that our example had become an argu-
ment against the experiment, the
knell’’—meaning the death nail—‘‘of
popular liberty would be sounded
throughout the earth.’’
How does the fact of 9 zettajoules and
the proposition of America’s role relate
to each other? First is the climate
chaos mankind will increasingly have
to bear. A recent study published by
Nature found with 99.9999 percent con-
fidence that Earth is warming due to
human activity. I could give you any
number of risks, such as global sea
level rise or increasing wildfires and
droughts or the unprecedented CO2 con-
centrations in our atmosphere. All of
this affects human health, human agri-
culture, and human economy, and all
of these risks also have national secu-
rity consequences.
Through the years, America’s na-
tional security experts could not have
made it much plainer. Fifty-eight
former military and national security
leaders sent this letter this month to
President Trump warning that
‘‘[c]limate change is real, it is hap-
pening now, it is driven by humans,
and it is accelerating.’’ They went on
to say that the administration’s denial
of climate science will ‘‘erode our na-
tional security.’’ They warned that the
effects of climate change are already
being ‘‘used by our adversaries as a
weapon of war,’’ citing ISIS’s control
of water during climate change-exacer-
bated drought. This letter urges Presi-
dent Trump to ‘‘drop the politics, and
allow our national security and science
agencies to do their jobs.’’
They are not alone. The Pentagon’s
2014 Quadrennial Defense Review de-
scribed climate change as a ‘‘global
threat multiplier,’’ warning that ‘‘the
pressures caused by climate change
will influence resource competition
while placing additional burdens on
economies, societies, and governance
institutions around the world.’’
Former admiral Samuel Locklear, as
head of U.S. Pacific Command, warned
in 2013 that climate change was the
biggest long-term security threat in
his area of operation, noting the need
for the military to organize for, as he
called it, ‘‘when the effects of climate
change start to impact these massive
populations.’’
‘‘If it goes bad,’’ he said, ‘‘you could
have hundreds of thousands or millions
of people displaced and then security
will start to crumble pretty quickly.’’
A recent survey of nearly 300 Active-
Duty and veteran servicemembers
found that 77 percent ‘‘consider it fair-
ly or very likely that military bases in
coastal or island regions will be dam-
aged by flooding or severe storms as a
result of climate change.’’
In response to a provision cham-
pioned by Rhode Island Congressman
JIM LANGEVIN in the House and by Sen-
ator REED in the Senate, the last
NDAA bill instructed the Department
of Defense to provide a report exam-
ining the effects of climate change on
the military. Of 79 DOD installations
evaluated, 53 currently experience re-
current flooding, 43 are experiencing
drought conditions, 36 are prone to
wildfires, 6 are seeing desertification,
and 1 is dealing with thawing perma-
frost. That is what is happening now.
In 20 years, the DOD predicts, an addi-
tional seven installations will experi-
ence flooding, five more will see
drought conditions, and seven will see
wildfire risks.
Of course, all of those risks will get
worse. This report failed to list the top
10 most vulnerable installations and ig-
nores the Marine Corps, but it never-
theless warned that ‘‘[t]he effects of a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:33 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR6.041 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1944 March 25, 2019
changing climate are a national secu-
rity issue with potential impacts to
Department of Defense missions, oper-
ational plans, and installations.’’
The national security ties to climate
change begin with our military.
A second point. Henry Kissinger once
told me that the great revolutions of
the world have always come from what
he called a ‘‘confluence of
resentments.’’ I have not forgotten
that phrase since he used it, a ‘‘con-
fluence of resentments.’’ The poorest
on the planet, those who live closest to
the land, who lead subsistence lives,
will suffer most the brunt of the com-
ing change, and they will resent it. It
is human nature.
If you divide the world into three
groups, you can call one group the very
poorest, who will starve when, for in-
stance, their fisheries collapse. The
middle group is distressed when fish-
eries collapse but has the resources to
find alternative food sources. At the
top, the fish in our air-conditioned su-
permarket may cost a bit more and
come from a different part of the
ocean, and we may drive home in our
air-conditioned SUV with a slightly
larger grocery bill, but that will be it
for us. The first two groups will resent
it when they feel the pain caused by
the SUV crowd. If you turn that pain
up high enough, good luck defending
with those injured people the par-
liamentary democracy and market cap-
italism system that brought this on.
The injustice will amplify the
resentments.
My final point. How does America
fare as the exemplary Nation through
all of this? Well, very badly. Democ-
racy and capitalism are the hallmarks
of our country, and the failure of those
institutions to address climate change
will not be a good story.
Worse than the failure is the reason
for it. The climate denial apparatus
that has won unseemly influence in
Congress now will surely lose the test
of time. The consequences of climate
change are determined by laws of
chemistry, of physics, and of biology.
Those laws can’t be repealed or wished
away. Propaganda can manipulate peo-
ple and passions and politics, but it has
no effect on the immutable laws of na-
ture. So the fossil fuel industry’s de-
nial apparatus will ultimately be ex-
posed as a fraud and a scandal, and his-
tory will lament and condemn it as one
of the great American frauds and scan-
dals. History’s judgment will come
harshly, and it will fall harshly on an
American democracy that let itself be
overborne by this apparatus.
James Madison, in the Federalist Pa-
pers, warned of ‘‘moments in public af-
fairs when the people [can be] misled
by artful misrepresentations of inter-
ested men.’’ By that, of course, he
meant people with a conflict of inter-
est. He went on to say that misled peo-
ple ‘‘may call for measures which they
themselves will afterwards be the most
ready to lament and condemn.’’ We
have certainly been misled by artful
misrepresentations of the interested
men of the fossil fuel industry.
It may be hard for us in our world of
air-conditioning, SUVs, and imported
fresh fish to contemplate resentment
and revolution, but the harms to the
oceans of 9 zettajoules of heat—4.5 Hir-
oshima explosions worth of heat per
second that we are adding to the
oceans—those harms are on a collision
course with our destiny as a city on a
hill. We urgently need to show the
world that market capitalism and de-
mocracy don’t fail when presented with
big problems if we are to head off a
confluence of resentments that we are
now making inevitable.
With that, I yield to my distin-
guished senior Senator, Mr. JACK REED.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island is recognized.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, let me
commend Senator WHITEHOUSE for his
consistent efforts to illuminate and
discuss the problem of climate change,
which affects not just the United
States but the entire world. It is a
pleasure to join him and once again
call attention to this urgent threat.
We know that climate change im-
pacts our health, our communities, our
economy, and our infrastructure, but
today I would like to focus on how cli-
mate change is affecting our national
security—some of the points Senator
WHITEHOUSE also made.
Beginning with the 2008 National De-
fense Strategy, the administration of
President George W. Bush stated that
‘‘changes with existing and future re-
source, environmental, and climate
pressures may generate new security
challenges . . . These risks will require
managing the divergent needs of mas-
sively increasing energy demand to
maintain economic development and
the need to tackle climate change.’’
With increasing frequency in recent
years, climate change has been com-
monly referred to as a threat multi-
plier. Simply put, climate change can
and will exacerbate conditions in re-
gions with already tenuous stability.
Numerous intelligence assessments
have reached the same conclusion. Cli-
mate change will have broad impacts
for U.S. national security interests
over the next 30 years and beyond.
In their words, the National Intel-
ligence Council has found that ‘‘rising
sea levels, flooding, droughts, higher
temperatures, and more frequent ex-
treme weather events will increasingly
threaten military capabilities and fa-
cilities on both U.S. and foreign terri-
tory, including military bases and
training ranges.’’
Furthermore, the National Intel-
ligence Council identified six key path-
ways: threats to the stability of coun-
tries, heightened social and political
tensions, adverse effects on food prices
and availability, increased risks to
human health, negative impacts on in-
vestments and economic competitive-
ness, and potential climate discontinu-
ities and secondary surprises.
The former Secretary of Defense, Jim
Mattis, has stated to the Senate Armed
Services Committee that ‘‘where cli-
mate change contributes to regional
instability, the Department of Defense
must be aware of any potential adverse
impacts.’’ He also noted that ‘‘climate
change is impacting stability in areas
of the world where our troops are oper-
ating today.’’
More recently, Gen. Joe Dunford,
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
was asked about climate change at an
event held by Duke University’s Pro-
gram in American Grand Strategy. He
said:
When we look at, when I look at, climate
change, it’s in the category of sources of con-
flict around the world and things we have to
respond to. So it can be great devastation re-
quiring humanitarian assistance/disaster re-
lief, which the U.S. military certainly con-
ducts routinely. In fact, I can’t think of a
year since I’ve been on active duty that we
haven’t conducted at least one operation in
the Pacific along those lines due to extreme
weather in the Pacific. And then, when you
look at source of conflict—shortages of
water and those kind of things—those are all
sources of conflict. So, it is very much some-
thing that we take into account in our plan-
ning as we anticipate when, where and how
we may be engaged in the future and what
capabilities we should have.
The Department of Defense has al-
ready observed many negative impacts
to readiness and resources due to ex-
treme weather as a result of climate
change.
The Congressional Budget Office has
concluded ‘‘costs associated with hurri-
cane damage will increase more rapidly
than the economy will grow’’—$39 bil-
lion annually by 2075.
In 2017, the Government Account-
ability Office found that ‘‘weather ef-
fects associated with climate change
pose operational and budgetary risks’’
to the Department of Defense.
The GAO also found that ‘‘even with-
out knowing precisely how or when the
climate will change—[DOD] knows it
must build resilience into its policies,
programs, and operations in a thought-
ful and cost-effective way.’’
Last year, the Pentagon also sub-
mitted its screening level vulnerability
assessment surveys to Congress. It
found that roughly half of all military
installations that responded stated
they had experienced adverse impacts
from climate change: damage from
high winds, flooding due to storm surge
and non-storm surge events, extreme
temperatures, droughts, and wildfires.
However, that figure is likely much
higher because the other half of mili-
tary installations around the globe
didn’t even respond to the survey.
Oddly enough, those military installa-
tions that said they had not experi-
enced negative impacts from climate
change were very close to other instal-
lations, which said they had. Clearly,
this is a broad problem for our mili-
tary.
The Department’s most recent report
on climate change was like an intro-
ductory primer and carried about as
much value as a phonebook. It failed to
provide many required elements, such
as a top 10 list of the most vulnerable
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.023 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1945
March 25, 2019
installations from each military serv-
ice. Instead, the report focused on 79
installations important for mission as-
surance and found that about two-
thirds of them are—in their words—
‘‘vulnerable to current or future recur-
rent flooding [and] more than half are
vulnerable to current or future
drought, and wildfires.’’
Perhaps the most recent and high-
profile impacts occurred this month
when a particular type of storm in the
Midwest, called a bomb cyclone, left at
least one-third of Offutt Air Force Base
underwater from flooding.
Just a few months ago, Hurricane Mi-
chael made a direct hit on Tyndall Air
Force Base in Florida, which was only
shortly after the astonishing 1,000-year
event of Hurricane Florence in North
Carolina, which caused severe damage
at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune. In
other words, the amount of observed
rain during Hurricane Florence had a 1-
in-100 chance of occurring each year.
While initial reporting indicated at
Tyndall that roughly 17 F–22s were de-
stroyed or severely damaged after
being left at the base during Hurricane
Michael, fortunately, the actual dam-
age to aircraft turned out to be mini-
mal. However, the fact that over a
dozen advanced fighters costing rough-
ly $130 million per aircraft had to be
abandoned in the first place is a funda-
mental flaw in readiness and aircraft
maintenance.
Despite the minimal damage to air-
craft, the projected cost to rebuild
Tyndall is still roughly $4.1 billion. The
underlying issue that must be ad-
dressed is that hangars and other fa-
cilities are not adequately designed
and built to withstand an increased
trend of heavy winds above 130 miles
per hour or other extreme weather.
Meanwhile, the estimated cost to re-
build what was at Camp Lejeune—ac-
cording to the Commandant of the Ma-
rine Corps—is roughly $3.7 billion.
Fortunately, at Camp Lejeune, sev-
eral hangars survived and did not flood.
This is because they were appro-
priately designed in the first place.
These glaring examples of Offutt Air
Force Base, Tyndall Air Force Base,
and Camp Lejeune clearly demonstrate
that we must plan for climate adapta-
tion now or we will pay much, much
more in the future.
General Neller, the Commandant of
the Marine Corps, recently wrote to
the Secretary of the Navy saying that
the Marine Corps ‘‘faces fiscal chal-
lenges without precedent’’ given that
‘‘Hurricane Florence damage is nega-
tively impacting Marine Corps readi-
ness.’’
To put some of that in context, the
Commandant said the ‘‘total recovery
cost is 9 percent of our annual budget;
the building repair cost is 150 percent
of our total annual building repair
budget; and the building replacement
cost is four years’ worth of non-Guam
MILCON.’’ The Commandant closed the
letter by warning that the next hurri-
cane season is only 3 months away.
Beyond these most recent events, cli-
mate change continues to cost DOD
significant resources, measured in tax-
payer funding and negative impacts on
readiness.
In 2017, the trio of hurricanes—Maria,
Irma, and Harvey—cost the Depart-
ment over $1.3 billion in military con-
struction and facilities sustainment
restoration and modernization alone.
Hurricane Harvey was the third 500-
year flood in the Houston area in the
last 3 years—we are getting 500-year
floods every 3 years in parts of the
United States—and it left four times
more than the entire flow of the Mis-
sissippi River on the city of Houston,
TX.
At Lackland Air Force Base in Texas,
there were 81 black flag training days.
These are days where training is can-
celed due to heat. That was in 2012. In
2016, there were 226 black flag days.
The Marine Corps experienced 478
heat-related injuries in 2013. By com-
parison, there were 688 in 2017 and 744
in 2016.
In Alaska, three locations of early
warning radar infrastructure have been
damaged and moved due to coastal ero-
sion that was not expected to occur
until 2030.
In 2016, a 10,000-acre wildfire in Cali-
fornia closed the south side of Vanden-
berg Air Force Base, stalling the
launch of an Atlas V rocket. Wildfires
also led to training range closures for
multiple months in North Carolina,
South Carolina, Idaho, Florida, and
New Mexico.
In Arizona last summer, a heat wave
caused 40 flights to be canceled, with
clear implications for DOD aircraft,
ships, and vehicles that must be able to
continue to operate in extreme hot and
cold temperatures. Yet current adapta-
tion measures attempted by DOD have
yet to be comprehensive or entirely
successful.
In what could be the beginning of a
startling trend, the Air Force recently
had to cancel a fiscal year 2018 military
construction project in Alaska due to
‘‘thawing permafrost under the exist-
ing facility causing significant set-
tling’’ with the facility foundation.
Warming Arctic temperatures at
Thule Air Force Base in Greenland
have caused extensive airfield pave-
ment repairs at a cost of over $30 mil-
lion, which is roughly the cost of one
Army Combat Training Center rota-
tion. So instead of getting brigades
down to Ft. Irwin for the training exer-
cises they need, we are going to have to
repave and repave bases that are ex-
posed to some of these climate effects.
Meanwhile, melting ice caps continue
to open up new sea lanes in the Arc-
tic—a topic that the Presiding Officer
knows better than anyone else in this
body—increasing commercial traffic
and prompting several countries, in-
cluding Russia, to vie for influence and
control over the region.
Notably, the current force structure
of the Navy is not adequately postured
to respond and operate in the Arctic,
and the GAO recently found that even
the Navy admits ‘‘significant limita-
tions for operating surface ships in the
Arctic.’’
Protecting our national security re-
quires tough decisions that are made
through a careful evaluation of risks,
which, as I have described, must in-
clude the real risks posed by climate
change.
I am concerned by many actions
coming by the current administration,
not only to downplay these risks but
also to actively undermine the sci-
entific consensus on climate change.
Instead of heeding the warnings of sci-
entists, including those from the 13
Federal Agencies that worked on the
‘‘National Climate Assessment,’’ the
administration is working to create a
climate security panel led by a noted
climate denier to contradict these
warnings.
I will continue—and I know others
will continue—fighting any efforts to
cast doubt on the fact that climate
change is real and that it is human-
caused. We need to be able to acknowl-
edge these basic facts so that we can
quickly come together to work toward
meaningful solutions.
Again, let me thank Senator WHITE-
HOUSE for inviting me to join him
today to highlight the impacts of cli-
mate change on national security. The
dangers of inaction are many, and as
ranking member of the Armed Services
Committee, I will be continuing to
sound the alarm on this critical issue.
I have tried to emphasize the effects
of climate change on our training fa-
cilities, on our bases here in the United
States, and on our regions that are
close by, where we prepare our forces
to be sent overseas. But if you look
overseas in areas that are suffering
drought, in areas where agricultural
land is diminishing, and in areas where
farming used to be the mainstay of the
population and now has disappeared
and the population is unemployed, if
you look at places like Pakistan, which
has significant environmental prob-
lems, significant financial problems,
and significant problems with terrorist
organizations, if you look in thousands
of places around the globe, those are
real threats that are being accelerated
by climate change that our military
will have to adapt and adjust to.
This is a multiphase issue. We have
to take steps here at home to preserve
our training bases and to make sure
that our airfields can operate in all
types of weather so that we can have
the Marine Corps facilities in Camp
Lejeune in A–1 condition.
It is the major force-generating posi-
tion for the Marine Corps on the Atlan-
tic coast. We have to be able to do
that. That is just part of the problem.
The other part of the problem is the
potential for conflict overseas. In many
countries, it is accelerating because
they are losing their quality of life,
their economic ability, and all these
things. There is drought, severe weath-
er, hurricanes, and storms. There was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.028 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1946 March 25, 2019
huge cyclonic activity just reported
last week in parts of Africa. That is
causing disruption for families, death,
and a host of problems that are causing
not particularly stable governments to
become less stable.
This is an issue that we must ad-
dress. I look forward to working with
all of my colleagues in order to provide
the resources and the direction to do
that.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). The Senator from Oregon.
f
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I un-
derstand that this week it is the inten-
tion of the majority leader to put on
the floor of this Chamber a resolution
that is related to taking on the enor-
mous challenge of climate chaos. If I
just heard that announced, I would say
‘‘well done’’ because it is way past time
for us to wrestle with this calamity af-
fecting all of our States and all coun-
tries around the globe.
Temperatures across the planet are
going up. All kinds of impacts are
being felt. So if the majority leader
said, ‘‘Yes, we are going to rise to our
responsibilities and have a serious de-
bate on the floor; we are going to take
a bill to committee; we are going to
wrestle with how we in America cannot
only take on carbon pollution here but
show the type of leadership that mobi-
lizes countries around the world and
mobilizes leadership around the
world,’’ well, then, I would say ‘‘well
done.’’
But, unfortunately, that is not what
is about to happen. The majority lead-
er says he doesn’t want to talk about
climate. So he wants to put a resolu-
tion on the floor with no debate in the
committee, no serious effort to develop
a series of policies to take on this ca-
lamity, and just to create a farce out of
this Chamber. This Chamber, which I
love, is being used in this horrific fash-
ion, taking very serious issues that
threaten our economy and threaten our
natural resources and making fun of
them and choosing to do nothing.
It was Henry David Thoreau who
said: ‘‘What is the use of a house if you
haven’t got a tolerable planet to put it
on?’’ But I am sure that when Henry
David Thoreau spoke he had no inkling
of the challenges we would be facing
here in the year 2019.
The challenge in this year of 2019 is
that in a single human lifetime the
carbon dioxide in the air has gone up 30
percent—trapping enormous quantities
of heat, raising the temperature of our
oceans, where 90 percent of the heat is
trapped, changing the weather that we
experience in all kinds of ways, and
driving a huge increase in forest fires
in our country. If that alone were the
impact, that would be enough to take
action. In fact, if we just look at that
one issue of forest fires, looking at the
Fourth National Climate Assessment,
it is estimated that the change in cli-
mate has doubled the acres burned by
forest fires—just that one issue.
In my home State of Oregon, we real-
ly see this. In the Northwest there is a
beautiful forest. The landscape, par-
ticularly west of the Cascades, has the
most incredible old-growth forest and
timber stands you would ever see, and
it is burning at an unprecedented rate.
Why is that? Well, for one, we have
summers that are hotter and dryer
than before. That hot, dry period ex-
tends for about 2 months longer than
before. Then, we have storms that are
more likely to have lightning strikes
than before. Combine this very dry for-
est with lightning strikes, and you
have a huge problem on your hands. It
isn’t just some remote forest that is
burning. It is our natural resources,
our ecosystems, and our timber stands.
It is also having an impact on the com-
merce of our cities and the rec-
reational industry.
That is not the only impact that we
see in my home State of Oregon. We
also see that the acidification of the
Pacific Ocean from carbon dioxide is
starting to make it hard for shellfish
to make shells. Most significantly, 10
years ago we discovered that the acid-
ity of the Pacific Ocean was killing the
newly born oysters as they tried to cre-
ate a shell and to do so in more acidic
water. We have to change the chem-
istry of the ocean water now. We have
to buffer it in order to enable the oys-
ter industry to survive. What kind of
canary in the coal mine is that? What
kind of warning is it that the shellfish
is in trouble because the ocean is be-
coming too acidic?
You may say: Why does that have
anything to do with carbon in the at-
mosphere? It has everything to do with
carbon in the atmosphere, because the
ocean waves absorb the carbon dioxide,
it becomes carbonic acid, and that acid
makes the ocean more acidic.
I stand on the beach in Oregon and
look out at the Pacific Ocean. Of
course, you can only look out at about
20 miles of the sea, but all you see is
water. It is hard to imagine that you
would have to go thousands of miles to
hit another continent. Yet, that ocean,
as vast as it is, has changed its chem-
istry in our lifetime, not just becoming
more acidic but becoming warmer. In
fact, we have a calamity ongoing right
now off the coast of California, Oregon,
and Washington. The kelp is dis-
appearing. With the kelp disappearing,
that is a concern for every fisherman.
The kelp forests provide a lot of shelter
and food for a lot of species. How do we
know what impact that will have on
our fisheries, which are so important
to our coastal economy?
We have the fact that the change in
snowpack is affecting our winter
sports. The lowered average snowpack
just means warmer, smaller trout and
salmon streams in the summer. People
want to fish. They want healthy
streams, not streams that are too tiny
and too hot for the salmon and the
trout. You see the impact we are hav-
ing on forests, farming, fishing, and on
the cities from smoke and on human
health as people inhale that smoke. It
is not just an impact on the economy.
It is an impact on our health and our
children’s health. That is just in my
State.
So I would ask my colleagues across
the aisle, every one of them, to say: Do
you know what? We have a responsi-
bility to take on issues that are doing
great damage.
That damage isn’t just wildfires. We
are seeing more intense weather events
across the country. This is in all kinds
of places—severe weather storms,
droughts, hail, tornadoes, and, prob-
ably most significantly, more powerful
hurricanes, like Hurricane Michael and
Hurricane Florence just last year in
2018. Of course we saw the trio of hurri-
canes in 2017.
You say: Are hurricanes connected to
all of this? How can that be?
Hurricanes take their energy from
the ocean. When the ocean is warmer,
it creates a fiercer hurricane. It takes
that energy, and it becomes winds that
are moving faster and a hurricane that
is larger and endures longer when it
hits land.
It is estimated that extreme weather
events cost Americans nearly a half
trillion dollars over the last 3 years. In
2017 alone, between the fires and the
hurricanes, damages were estimated at
$300 billion. That is real damage. That
is real economic damage happening
here in the United States of America.
When talking about $1 billion of dam-
age, that is talking about a lot of fami-
lies being set back a long way. We are
talking about a lot of infrastructure
being ripped up, and we are talking
about lives lost.
Despite this enormous damage and
despite lives lost, the majority leader
wants to create a farce over an issue
threatening our country and our plan-
et? That is just wrong. It is way beyond
wrong—to see the face of a calamity
and to do nothing. Well, it could go
with all kinds of adjectives—none of
them complimentary, not a one.
We should be the opposite here, tak-
ing on the responsibility of addressing
these issues that are having an im-
pact—having an impact in the heart-
land, having an impact on our soy and
corn crops, having an impact on the
coasts, having an impact in the South-
east, with hurricanes, and the North-
east, with Lyme disease and spreading
tick infestations, the loss of the moose,
and the lobsters heading north along
the ocean into Canada.
So we must not bury our heads in the
tar sands. We cannot allow the polit-
ical donations that are present now in
our corrupted governmental system to
deter us from doing the work we need
to do. Yet that appears to be exactly
what is happening. We have a broader
responsibility here—a responsibility to
our sons and daughters. We have a re-
sponsibility to our grandchildren and
their sons and daughters and their
grandchildren.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.030 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1947
March 25, 2019
This contamination of our atmos-
phere cannot be easily undone. Carbon
dioxide stays in the atmosphere for
hundreds of years. So we have to pre-
vent it from being put there in the first
place. There is so much we can do to-
gether. There is so much we can do to
say this challenge is real, to say we
will work together as Americans to
take this on and to help lead the world
in ending this horrific damage that will
persist for hundreds of years.
There is so much to do. We can cre-
ate millions of good-paying jobs to-
gether for America and export products
to the world instead of buying products
from the world. We can make sure that
as we do that and as we invest in an en-
ergy transformation, not only do we
create millions of good-paying jobs,
but we also make sure that rural
America is not left behind, that our
former fossil fuel communities are not
left behind, and that our frontline
urban communities that have so often
been left behind are not left behind. We
can make an economic renaissance
that goes into every corner of our Na-
tion where often economic improve-
ments have not gone before.
These elements are the core elements
of the Green New Deal. One is to face
reality and together say: Yes, we have
a big challenge in front of us of dev-
astating consequences and growing
consequences. Maybe it was a theory 20
years ago, but today it is a reality in
every town across this country. It is a
big calamity. We should say we will
work together to take it on. That is
the second basic principle, coming to-
gether, and then there is a surge of ac-
tivity to develop alternatives and de-
ploy alternatives to the use of fossil
fuels.
The third piece of this puzzle is that
in so doing, we will create millions of
good-paying jobs. Isn’t that what so
many leaders run on? I certainly love
the idea of good-paying jobs.
My dad, a union mechanic, was able
to raise a family and be part of the
great middle class of America and be
part of the American dream: buy a
house, take the family camping on va-
cations, participate in having a 40-hour
workweek, and get paid overtime if you
had to work more. Yet that dream is
further and further out of reach. Don’t
we want to create those better paying
jobs in the process of renovating our
energy economy?
Years ago, I undertook tearing the
insides out of a house in the 1980s and
then rebuilt that house. When you re-
build a house, there is plumbing, wir-
ing, framing, sheetrock, windows, and
roofing. I would buy a lot of stuff to
renovate that house. That type of con-
struction renovation puts a lot of peo-
ple to work. If construction renovation
puts people to work, think about how
renovating our entire energy economy
puts people to work. That is the third
core principle.
The fourth is to make sure those eco-
nomic gains go to those who have pre-
viously been left behind. That is an im-
portant message for rural America.
That is an important message for
urban frontline communities pre-
viously left behind. There is so much
work to do and so many ways we can
make sure these communities partici-
pate.
When I go out to Oregon, I do a town-
hall in every county every year—36
counties. Twenty-two of them are
rural. In political terms, you would de-
scribe them as deep red. People are
frustrated by the very low wages and
the very low number of jobs in those
rural communities. Now we have an op-
portunity to say we have to go to work
in an intensive way—a way that can
create jobs all across this Nation and
all across rural America. Instead, we
have the majority leader bringing the
issue to the floor as a farce. That is
profoundly disturbing.
I encourage all my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle, let us not miss
this opportunity before us—an oppor-
tunity for America to lead, an oppor-
tunity for America to build its econ-
omy, an opportunity for America to
lead the world. We cannot afford to
miss that opportunity. America cannot
afford for us to miss that opportunity,
and the world cannot afford for us to
fail.
Thank you.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:18 p.m.,
adjourned until Tuesday, March 26,
2019, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be general
GEN. JOHN W. RAYMOND
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be general
LT. GEN. JEFFREY L HARRIGIAN
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE ARMY AND APPOINTMENT IN
THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 601
AND 7033:
To be general
GEN. JAMES C. MCCONVILLE
FOREIGN SERVICE
THE FOLLOWING–NAMED CAREER MEMBERS OF THE
SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
STATE FOR PROMOTION WITHIN THE SENIOR FOREIGN
SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CLASS OF
CAREER MINISTER:
KENNETH H. MERTEN, OF VIRGINIA
GEETA PASI, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
TODD D. ROBINSON, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
ERIC SETH RUBIN, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
MATTHEW HEYWOOD TUELLER, OF UTAH
ALICE G. WELLS, OF WASHINGTON
KEVIN M. WHITAKER, OF VIRGINIA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:31 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G25MR6.026 S25MRPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E335
March 25, 2019
JAMESLY KELLY-CANNON
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Jamesly Kelly-
Cannon for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Jamesly Kelly-Cannon is a student at Three
Creeks K–8 and received this award because
his determination and hard work have allowed
him to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Jamesly
Kelly-Cannon is exemplary of the type of
achievement that can be attained with hard
work and perseverance. It is essential stu-
dents at all levels strive to make the most of
their education and develop a work ethic
which will guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Jamesly Kelly-Cannon for winning the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award. I have no doubt he will exhibit the
same dedication and character in all of his fu-
ture accomplishments.
f
HONORING DOTTIE COLLINS
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Dottie Collins, who recently received
the 2018 El Campo Chamber of Commerce
and Agriculture Citizen of the Year Award.
Ms. Collins began her educational career at
Baylor University, where she earned her bach-
elor’s degree in science physical education.
She continued her studies and eventually ob-
tained a Master’s in Education from Sam
Houston State University.
Ms. Collins and her husband, Allen, married
in December of 1964 and moved to El Campo.
With a heart for teaching others, she dedi-
cated her career to educating and serving the
people of El Campo.
Ms. Collins taught history and coached
freshmen girls basketball, girls varsity track,
and girls and boys cross country at El Campo
High School for four years until moving to El
Campo Middle School in 1989. At the middle
school, she spent time outside of the class-
room coordinating trips to Washington, D.C.
for her students.
Ms. Collins educated and encouraged stu-
dents at El Campo Middle School until her re-
tirement in 2004. However, her retirement was
not the end of her contributions to our commu-
nity.
For years, she has served and participated
in the Wharton County Retired Teachers As-
sociation, Blue Birds, and the Heritage Center.
Additionally, she worked with children at El
Campo’s First Presbyterian Church, volun-
teering her time as a Sunday school teacher
and the church’s Youth Director.
It is because of servant leaders like Ms.
Collins that communities flourish, and I would
like to extend my heartfelt thanks to Dottie
Collins for her devotion to the people of El
Campo.
f
HONORING LOREZ BAILEY AS
WOMAN OF THE YEAR
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Lorez Bailey,
whom I have named the 2019 Woman of the
Year in Sonoma County, California. Woman of
the Year recognizes women who have made
important contributions to California’s 5th Con-
gressional District in Arts and Culture, Profes-
sional Achievement, Entrepreneurship and In-
novation or Community Service.
Ms. Bailey has spent over 20 years over-
seeing youth development programs and cre-
ating opportunities for young people in our
community. She is the Executive Director of
Chop’s Teen Club in Santa Rosa, California.
In her two years at Chop’s, she has supported
collaborative initiatives to give members a
wider range of programs and services. She
has also worked to raise the visibility and in-
clusion of Chop’s in our community. Before
joining Chop’s, Ms. Bailey was the Director of
College and Career Readiness at Social Advo-
cates for Youth. In this role, she revamped all
the high school college and career centers in
Sonoma County. She also oversaw a team of
coordinators who worked to implement work-
based learning initiatives and Career Tech-
nical Education programs.
Ms. Bailey has positively impacted our com-
munity through her work at West County Com-
munity Services where she was the Manager
of Youth and Adult Education and Employ-
ment Services. In addition, Ms. Bailey has
spent a large portion of her career in media.
She has worked at publications including The
Press Democrat, The Community Voice, and
Fremont Argus. In all her work, Ms. Bailey has
followed her passion for advocacy and com-
mitment to community service.
Ms. Bailey is an Oakland, California native
and longtime resident of Sonoma County. She
received her Bachelor of Arts in Communica-
tion Studies from Sacramento State University
and her Master of Arts in Education from
Sonoma State University. Ms. Bailey is mar-
ried to her husband Andre, with whom she
has three daughters.
Madam Speaker, Lorez Bailey is an incred-
ible member of our community whose tireless
work throughout her career has benefited the
women throughout Sonoma County and Cali-
fornia. Therefore, it is fitting and proper that
we honor her here today.
IN CELEBRATION OF CONGRESS-
WOMAN GRACE MENG’S
ACHIEVEMENTS
HON. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
Madam Speaker, I, along with Representative
OCASIO-CORTEZ, rise to recognize our col-
league, Congresswoman GRACE MENG, who
received a women’s history month award from
us and from Assemblywoman Aravella
Simotas at a ceremony in Queens on March
22nd in recognition of her passionate advo-
cacy for women. Congresswoman MENG has
been fearless in standing up for women, tak-
ing on issues that are critical for women’s
health and well-being.
Congresswoman MENG has been a force for
greater diversity, inclusion and change. She is
the first and only Asian American member of
Congress from New York State. As a member
of the New York State Assembly and as a
member of Congress, she worked to strike the
term ‘‘Oriental’’ from New York State and fed-
eral statutes. Congresswoman MENG is also
First Vice Chair of the Congressional Asian
Pacific Americans Caucus, which works to re-
flect the needs of the Asian American and Pa-
cific Islander communities.
Congresswoman MENG has been a cham-
pion for women. She has passed legislation to
expand child care services for women in the
military, and required the Department of De-
fense to review military uniforms for pregnant
women to ensure proper fit, design, price,
availability and utility. Understanding that men-
strual health is critical to women’s lives, she
has been particularly concerned with men-
strual equity, working to outlaw the tampon
tax, to ensure access by inmates to menstrual
hygiene products, and to enable homeless
shelters to use federal funds to provide tam-
pons and pads. When women lack access to
proper hygienic products, they face embar-
rassment, ridicule and possible health con-
sequences. Fortunately, Congresswoman
MENG is winning the battle to ensure that vul-
nerable women are no longer denied full par-
ticipation in society because they lack access
to feminine hygiene products.
Recognizing that traveling mothers often
lack safe places to pump milk, Congress-
woman MENG has introduced legislation to re-
quire that airports set aside private spaces for
nursing mothers. Working mothers need to
pump both to provide their infants with milk
when they return home and to ensure that
their milk supply does not dry up. Travelers
may spend hours waiting at airports in large
public areas with no privacy, and women
could use the time to pump milk if they have
access to a secure private space.
Congresswoman MENG was elected to rep-
resent the 6th Congressional District of New
York in the House of Representatives in 2012.
She serves on the powerful House Appropria-
tions Committee and its Subcommittees on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K25MR8.001 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E336 March 25, 2019
State and Foreign Operations, Homeland Se-
curity, and Commerce, Justice, Science and
Related Agencies. Congresswoman MENG is
also a Senior Whip and a Regional Whip for
New York. She has also served as a Vice
Chair of the Democratic National Committee
since 2016.
Before being elected to the House, Con-
gresswoman MENG served in the New York
State Assembly for two terms, and before that
she was a public interest attorney. Congress-
woman MENG is married to her high school
sweetheart, Wayne Kye and has two children,
Tyler and Brandon.
Madam Speaker, we ask our colleagues to
join us in recognizing Congresswoman MENG’s
efforts to expand access to basic hygienic
supplies and ensure that women are not de-
nied essential products because of low in-
come, lack of housing, incarceration or military
service.
f
COMMERCE CITY BUSINESS AP-
PRECIATION 2018 AWARD—THE
GLOVE WAGON
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud The Glove
Wagon for receiving Commerce City’s Busi-
ness Appreciation 2018 Business on The
Move Award.
The Business on the Move Award recog-
nizes businesses bringing new employment,
growth in sales or new capital investment to
the city in the last year. The Glove Wagon, a
gloves and safety supplies wholesaler, sells
work gloves as well as a full line of safety and
protection products. The company’s commer-
cial customer base covers a wide range of in-
dustries: construction, concrete, plumbing,
electrical, oil field, poultry, dairy, and transpor-
tation.
Covering the state of Colorado, The Glove
Wagon recently expanded its glove rack serv-
ice into parts of Idaho, New Mexico, Utah, and
Wyoming. The company relocated from
Northglenn to Commerce City, building a
16,000 square-foot facility at E. 96th Avenue
and Havana Street and brought 20 new jobs
to the city.
I extend my deepest congratulations to The
Glove Wagon for this well-deserved recogni-
tion from Commerce City.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF EFRAIN
JESUS ‘‘E.J.’’ LAUREL
HON. HENRY CUELLAR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CUELLAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the life of Efrain Jesus ‘‘E.J.’’
Laurel.
Mr. Laurel was born and raised in Laredo,
Texas. He began his career as a U.S. Cus-
toms agent and later became a DEA agent.
He eventually served Webb County Precinct 4
as a constable and briefly served as Chief of
the Laredo Police Department before leaving
in 1991.
Mr. Laurel’s colleagues considered him an
intelligent, accomplished, and passionate
worker. He was revered by many in his com-
munity for his hard work and dedication to the
citizens of Laredo. He truly loved working in
law enforcement and was well-respected in
the field. Mr. Laurel had also earned a mas-
ter’s degree in Interdisciplinary Studies and
was said to have a great knowledge of histor-
ical facts. He had many interests and passions
including the Houston Astros.
Mr. Laurel is survived by his children, grand-
children, great-grandchildren, siblings, and
mother-in-law. He was a beloved father,
friend, and public servant. He was a well-re-
spected hero in his community and leaves a
legacy of serving his country and protecting
those at home throughout his career of more
than four decades.
f
HONORING ERIC PAYMON
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor a valiant and
selfless community servant, Eric Paymon.
Eric Paymon grew up in Jackson, Mis-
sissippi where he graduated from Forest Hill
High School in 1996. He also attended Hinds
Community College and Jackson State Univer-
sity. Officer Paymon is now furthering his edu-
cation, pursuing a degree in Communications.
Officer Paymon has been gainfully em-
ployed as a police officer since graduating
from Mississippi Law Enforcement Officers
Training Academy in 2005. He served as a
Patrolman at Jackson State University and as
a Deputy at the Hinds County Sheriff’s Depart-
ment.
Since 2007 Officer Paymon has been a
model officer at the Vicksburg Police Depart-
ment. He has held the position of Master Fire
Arms Instructor where he was responsible for
the training and qualification of all certified offi-
cers. Officer Paymon has worked in several
capacities including Traffic Supervisor, Field
Training Officer, Criminal Investigator, Patrol-
man and Watch Commander, supervising a
shift of 11 officers. He is currently serving as
Deputy Chief.
Officer Paymon is founder/owner of Secure
One, a private security company providing se-
curity to local businesses, schools and private
events.
Officer Paymon is happily married to his
wife, Kimberly, and they are blessed with two
children, Eriel and Eric, Jr. In his spare time,
Officer Paymon enjoys Green Bay Packers
and Jackson State Football, spending time
with family, traveling and community service
activities. Officer Paymon’s life motto is ‘‘If I
can help somebody along the way, then my
living shall not be in vain.’’
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Eric Paymon for his hard
work, dedication and tenacity to serving oth-
ers.
IN RECOGNITION OF KEVIN KANE,
RECIPIENT OF THE WYOMING
VALLEY CHILDREN’S ASSOCIA-
TION’S 2019 ‘‘MAKING A DIF-
FERENCE’’ AWARD
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Kevin Kane who re-
ceived the Wyoming Valley Children’s Asso-
ciation’s (WVCA) ‘‘Making A Difference’’
Award along with his wife Mickey Kane on Fri-
day, March 22, 2019 during the organization’s
95th Anniversary Gala.
The WVCA provides quality, early childhood
education as well as physical, occupational,
and speech therapy programs to students di-
agnosed with autism, Down syndrome, and
speech delays, and also to other children. The
‘‘Making A Difference Award’’ recognizes indi-
viduals who go above and beyond in their
commitment and service to the WVCA.
Kevin currently works for the Luzerne Coun-
ty Court Administration as the Director of Do-
mestic Relations for Family Court. Kevin has
proudly served on the Board of Directors for
Wyoming Valley Children’s Association for
twenty-seven years. He also served as the
President of the Board. Kevin and Mickey are
the proud parents of two children: Katie and
Sean. Together they established the Sean P.
Kane Memorial Fund in honor of their son. It
supports services, programs, and causes
aligned with health, wellness, and wellbeing of
people across the community, with an empha-
sis on individuals with special needs.
It is an honor to recognize Kevin as he and
Mickey accept the Wyoming Valley Children’s
Association’s ‘‘Making A Difference’’ Award.
May they continue to support the early child-
hood education needs of our community.
f
SELAH HURTER
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Selah Hurter
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Selah Hurter is a student at Wayne Carle
Middle School and received this award be-
cause her determination and hard work have
allowed her to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Selah
Hurter is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Selah Hurter for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.003 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E337
March 25, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE OF FRED
‘‘BUD’’ GREEN
HON. TRENT KELLY
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize the life of Fred ‘‘Bud’’
Green. Bud, a native of Jumpertown, Mis-
sissippi, passed away on February 22nd at the
age of 82.
Bud was dedicated to his family and com-
munity. For most of his life, he farmed the
land that has been in his family for genera-
tions, insuring the land will stay in the family
for generations to come. From 1995 to 2007,
Bud proudly served the people of Prentiss
County Mississippi, as Circuit Clerk. He often
spoke of this as being one of the greatest joys
in his life. Bud also proudly and actively
served on Farm Bureau’s Board of Directors.
It is through Bud’s many years of hard work
and service to his family and community that
we can look back and celebrate all that he ac-
complished. Bud was a friend and leader to
many and will be missed by all.
Bud is survived by his three children,
Tommy Green, Rose Anne Parker, and Emily
Pollard. He also leaves behind four grand-
children and a host of nieces and nephews.
f
IN HONOR OF ANGELA GARVIN
HON. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
Madam Speaker, I, along with Representative
OCASIO CORTEZ, rise to recognize Angela Gar-
vin, who received a women’s history month
award from us and from Assemblywoman
Aravella Simotas at a ceremony in Queens on
March 22nd. Ms. Garvin, who is now 12 years
old, is being celebrated for her innovative pro-
posal to develop rain gardens as part of the
renovation of Astoria Park. These gardens will
improve sustainability and make good use of
stormwater.
Although Angela Garvin was just 10 years
old when she developed her plan, her idea at-
tracted the attention of New York City Parks
Commissioner Mitchell Silver, who decided to
incorporate it into the design for Astoria Park,
which is in the process of being renovated as
part of the Anchor Parks initiative. Commis-
sioner Silver said that he was ‘‘blown away by
what she wrote about the importance of our
future, about sustainability and how we have
to do the right thing here in Astoria Park.’’ The
60 acre park was selected to receive $30 mil-
lion of funding for major capital improvements.
Ms. Garvin’s rain gardens will be part of phase
1 of the renovation plan, which calls for the re-
construction of 12 acres of the park, including
its track and field facilities and improvements
in the surrounding area, including new seating
areas, an adult fitness area, pathway realign-
ments, bleachers and plantings. The plan in-
cludes the development of site drainage and
grading improvements, including Ms. Garvin’s
rain gardens to collect and treat stormwater,
as well as a detention system under the syn-
thetic turf field to reduce discharge into the
East River.
Rain gardens are low-impact, sustainable
landscaping that are designed to mitigate the
effects of rainfall on impermeable surfaces.
The gardens slow the flow of stormwater with
plants that can absorb excess nutrients and fil-
ter pollutants.
Since she was very young, Ms. Garvin has
wanted to improve the facilities in her commu-
nity. When she heard that Astoria Park would
be renovated, she became passionate about
the idea of incorporating sustainability into the
plans for the park. She began attending meet-
ings with her grandmother, Mary Baker.
The oldest of three daughters, Ms. Garvin is
a 4th generation native of Astoria who at-
tended PS 122 from kindergarten to 5th grade,
just as her mother, grandmother and great-
grandfather did before her. She now attends
The Cathedral School of St. John the Divine in
Manhattan for middle school.
Madam Speaker, we ask our colleagues to
join us in celebrating the creativity and vision
of Angela Garvin who persuaded the Parks
Department to use a sustainable design in its
reimagining of Astoria Park. Her forward think-
ing will benefit generations of New Yorkers
and can be implemented at parks around the
city.
f
PANNAPORN
JAROENSAKULCHAIPORN
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Pannaporn
Jaroensakulchaiporn for receiving the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award.
Pannaporn Jaroensakulchaiporn is a student
at Arvada West High School and received this
award because her determination and hard
work have allowed her to overcome adversi-
ties.
The dedication demonstrated by Pannaporn
Jaroensakulchaiporn is exemplary of the type
of achievement that can be attained with hard
work and perseverance. It is essential stu-
dents at all levels strive to make the most of
their education and develop a work ethic
which will guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Pannaporn Jaroensakulchaiporn for winning
the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service Ambas-
sadors for Youth award. I have no doubt she
will exhibit the same dedication and character
in all of her future accomplishments.
f
HONORING TRAZENA ‘‘KANDIE’’
JONES AS WOMAN OF THE YEAR
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Trazena
‘‘Kandie’’ Jones, as 2019 Woman of the Year
in Contra Costa County, California. Woman of
the Year recognizes women who have made
important contributions to California’s 5th Con-
gressional District in Arts and Culture, Profes-
sional Achievement, Entrepreneurship and In-
novation or Community Service.
Ms. Jones has been active in our military
community for over 30 years. Ms. Jones is the
Commander of Veterans of Foreign Wars
(VFW) Post 1351 in Martinez, California. At
the VFW, she does outstanding work helping
veterans connect with one another and assists
elderly and sick members with tasks that have
become too difficult for them. She works tire-
lessly at Post 1351 and spends her remaining
free time volunteering at the Veterans Service
Office assisting veterans with obtaining the
benefits that they have earned. She is also the
driving force behind Post 1351’s local Buddy
Poppy distribution program, which benefits
veterans’ rehabilitation and other services
across the United States.
In addition to her work at the VFW, Ms.
Jones has been an active volunteer of the
PGA Veterans Hope Tournament and the
Valor Games Far West. The Valor Games
helps veterans and their families receive the
services they need within their community. Ms.
Jones also curates veterans hall military
memorabilia.
Ms. Jones enlisted in the U.S. Army and
rose to the rank of Sergeant while serving as
Quartermaster. She was honorably discharged
at Fort Ord near Monterey and since then has
been committed to helping our veterans.
Ms. Jones grew up in Chicago, Illinois
where she graduated high school. She en-
listed in the Army and moved to California,
where she attended aviation school. She also
studied automotive/machinist training.
Madam Speaker, Trazena ‘‘Kandie’’ Jones
is an incredible member of our community
whose tireless work throughout her career has
benefited the women throughout Contra Costa
County and California. Therefore, it is fitting
and proper that we honor her here today.
f
HONORING BELLA COSCETTI
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and recognize Woodsboro’s Bella
Coscetti, who recently set a high school na-
tional pole-vaulting record.
On January 12, 2019, this exceptionally gift-
ed Woodsboro High School freshman set the
national record by clearing 12-feet, 10-inches
at the Arkansas Invitational indoor meet.
Ms. Coscetti’s feat bested the previous high
school record of 12-feet, 9-inches.
What makes Ms. Coscetti’s accomplishment
especially impressive is that her record break-
ing leap resulted in her first win as a high
school athlete.
Ms. Coscetti’s success is a clear testament
to her diligence and perseverance, and I look
forward to her future achievements.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.007 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E338 March 25, 2019
COMMERCE CITY BUSINESS AP-
PRECIATION 2018 AWARD—LIN-
EAGE LOGISTICS
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Lineage Lo-
gistics for receiving Commerce City’s Business
Appreciation 2018 Business on The Move
Award.
The Business on the Move Award recog-
nizes businesses bringing new employment,
growth in sales or new capital investment to
the city in the last year. As the population in
the Denver Metro region increases, so does
the need for distribution and warehouse
space. Lineage Logistics, a cold storage
warehousing and logistics company, is work-
ing to meet that need. The company added
nearly 116,000 square feet to its existing
430,000-plus square-foot operation already in
the Irondale neighborhood in Commerce City.
This project brought an estimated $12.5 mil-
lion in new capital investment to the city in
2017 and $2.1 million in 2018 as well as
added 25 jobs to the company’s existing work-
force of 90 employees.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Lin-
eage Logistics for this well-deserved recogni-
tion from Commerce City.
f
HONORING THE 100TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF URNER’S HOME APPLI-
ANCE STORE IN BAKERSFIELD,
CALIFORNIA
HON. KEVIN McCARTHY
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the 100th anniversary
of Urner’s Home Appliance Store.
From his humble beginnings selling
cookware off the back of a bicycle in the
1910s, founder David E Urner’s entrepre-
neurial dreams were realized when he opened
Urner & Janes in the summer of 1919. With a
company mantra of ‘‘providing an easier way
of living,’’ Urner & Janes quickly became the
premier store in the Central Valley for modern
appliances In fact, Mr Urner was the first per-
son to offer innovative appliances like electric
refrigerators and the ‘‘wonder’’ machine—an
automatic washing machine years ahead of its
time—for commercial sale in Bakersfield His
vision and relentless work ethic truly laid the
foundation for Urner’s to become the fixture in
the community it is today.
When you look at family-owned companies
that survive the test of time, one trait they all
share is their adaptability, and Urner’s is no
exception. Largely unable to acquire metal-
based appliances during World War II be-
cause of the war production efforts, Urner’s
had the foresight to begin selling toys and of-
fering an appliance repair service. Fortunately,
this knack for understanding the market ex-
tended well beyond David, and the company,
now managed by the fourth generation of
Urners, who have experienced so much suc-
cess that they were forced to move from their
original downtown location into a larger 52,000
square foot superstore to keep up with de-
mand. Urner’s also recently expanded to the
mattress market, opening two Z’s Please
Sleep Center locations and becoming their
flagship mattress destination for the entire
state of California.
Even more noteworthy than Urner’s com-
mercial success is their boundless care and
support of the Bakersfield community. From
championing local organizations to simply
treating every person that passes through the
doors of one of their stores with kindness and
respect, Urner’s is the quintessential example
of how a family owned and operated business
should be run. On behalf of the 23rd Congres-
sional District I want to congratulate Urner’s
on its 100-year anniversary, and I look forward
to another 100 years of Urner’s prospering in
the Bakersfield community.
f
RECOGNIZING THE MORTON GIRLS
BASKETBALL TEAM ON WINNING
THE ILLINOIS 3A STATE TITLE
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, today, I
would like to recognize Morton, Illinois’ Morton
High School girls basketball team on winning
the 2019 Class 3A state title.
Returning yet again to the state champion-
ship finals, the Lady Potters capped off the
33–3 season with a 35–21 win over Glen Ellyn
Glenbard South. In a game where Morton took
a dominating stance early on, the Potters
began the tilt with a 15–0 run. Over the course
of the game, the Morton Lady Potters had an
amazing team effort on both offense and de-
fense.
The Morton girls basketball team has now
brought home their fourth Class 3A state title
in five years. Morton’s continued success on
the hardwood is a testament to the leadership
of Coach Bob Becker and the determination of
the young women he coaches.
The Morton girls basketball team serves as
a reminder to the people of our community
that when we believe in ourselves and dedi-
cate our time and effort to the goals that we
set, we can achieve even the most daring out-
comes. These young women exemplify the
strong work ethic rooted in Central Illinois and
we could not be prouder. Again, Congratula-
tions to Coach Bob Becker and the Morton
girls basketball team for their remarkable state
championship win.
f
COMMERCE CITY BUSINESS AP-
PRECIATION 2018 AWARD—MAG-
NOLIA STREET ART SPACE
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Magnolia
Street Art Space for receiving Commerce
City’s Business Appreciation 2018 Business
on The Move Award.
The Entrepreneurial Spirit Award recognizes
a company or entrepreneur that demonstrates
a pioneering spirit toward a business start-up,
new product development, or a company/prod-
uct with growth into new markets. Jeanie Nu-
ances King, a champion of the arts and one
of the founders of the Santa Fe Arts District,
created Magnolia Street Art Space at 6600 E.
74th Ave. This 5,200-square-foot building
houses studio and gallery space for artists at
an affordable rate of $1 per square foot.
Together with photographer Mark Sink, Ms.
King is working to establish a Derby Arts Dis-
trict. Magnolia Street Art Space and the Derby
Studio Project are the first two buildings in the
plan to offer affordable art studios, gallery
spaces and other amenities that will support
the arts in the Derby neighborhood of Com-
merce City.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Magnolia Street Art Space for this well-de-
served recognition from Commerce City.
f
CONGRATULATING LOGAN LEE ON
HIS WIN AT THE CLASS 1A
STATE FINALS FOR WRESTLING
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Logan Lee, a senior from Orion
High School, who won the Illinois High School
Association’s Class 1A State Finals Wrestling
Tournament. Lee completed a 21–1 season by
securing a 7–5 decision over Tyler Elsbury of
Byron.
Logan Lee captured the 285-pound state
title in exciting fashion on the University of Illi-
nois’ campus. After conceding a controversial
takedown to his opponent with only :54 sec-
onds left in the match, Logan quickly escaped
to even the match at 5 points apiece. With
overtime approaching, Logan went on the of-
fense, and showed great determination to se-
cure the go-ahead takedown with only sec-
onds left in the bout—leaving his opponent
next to no time to respond. As a former ath-
lete, I appreciate the fortitude Logan displayed
to achieve his dream of being a state cham-
pion and commend him for his efforts and atti-
tude. Logan is an example of the importance
of dedication and a strong work ethic. I am
proud there is such young talent in our com-
munity, and to see him represent Orion so
well throughout the state.
It is because of student leaders such as
Logan that I am especially proud to serve Illi-
nois’ 17th Congressional District. Madam
Speaker, I would like to again formally con-
gratulate Logan Lee on his Class 1A State
Finals title in wrestling.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF GABRIEL
‘‘G.E.’’ MARTINEZ
HON. HENRY CUELLAR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CUELLAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the life of Gabriel ‘‘G.E.’’
Martinez.
Mr. Martinez proudly served his country dur-
ing the Vietnam War, spending four years sta-
tioned in Thailand and Vietnam. He received
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K25MR8.005 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E339
March 25, 2019
various awards for his many acts of service in-
cluding the National Defense Medal, the Air
Force Good Conduct Medal, the Small Arms
Marksmanship Ribbon, and the Vietnam Serv-
ice Medal.
After his honorable discharge from the U.S.
Air Force, Mr. Martinez continued serving the
American people as a police officer and was
eventually promoted to Sergeant for the La-
redo Police Department (LPD). He eventually
retired after many years of service with the
LPD and worked as a court security officer in
Webb County and later in the Webb County
Tax Assessor-Collector’s Office.
Madam Speaker, it is important that we rec-
ognize our military and police officers and all
those that bravely serve our country. Mr. Mar-
tinez is one example of the many men and
women who have proudly served and pro-
tected others throughout their careers. He was
admired and respected by many and his leg-
acy lives on through his professional accom-
plishments and family.
Mr. Martinez was a loving father and hus-
band. He is survived by his wife Beva Rivera,
their five children, twelve grandchildren and
one great-granddaughter. His commitment to
public service lives on through his two sons,
Pat and Benito Martinez, who are officers for
the Laredo Police Department.
f
HONORING MARY JANE BOWKER
AS WOMAN OF THE YEAR
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Mary Jane
Bowker, as 2019 Woman of the Year in Napa
County, California. Woman of the Year recog-
nizes women who have made important con-
tributions to California’s 5th Congressional
District in Arts and Culture, Professional
Achievement, Entrepreneurship and Innovation
or Community Service.
Ms. Bowker is at the heart of political orga-
nizing up and down the Napa Valley. She’s a
strong defender of our democratic values and
devotes much of her time, energy and re-
sources to bettering our community. Her pas-
sion is working towards positive change, as
seen from her leadership with Progressive
Women of Napa Valley and Napa Valley
ACTS. Through Progressive Women of Napa
Valley, Ms. Bowker has trained numerous
community members to constructively engage
their local, state and federal representatives.
Ms. Bowker works within Napa Valley ACTS
to promote progressive activist collaboration
and support the annual Napa Valley Women’s
March.
Ms. Bowker has also been instrumental in
planning and organizing some of the biggest
political events in our community, including the
Napa Valley Women’s Marches, Rock the
Congress and Rock the Ride. For Rock the
Congress, she has hosted luncheons, dinners
and meetings to encourage interaction be-
tween the public and elected officials.
In addition to her activism, Ms. Bowker has
also been my Campaign Events Coordinator
since 2002. She has planned countless events
for me to engage with our community and has
hosted numerous celebrations to thank volun-
teers.
Ms. Bowker was born in Southport, Con-
necticut. She has been married to Dennis
Bowker since 1972, with whom she has two
sons. She is also the grandmother to four
grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, Mary Jane Bowker is an
incredible member of our community whose
tireless work throughout her career has bene-
fited the women throughout Napa County and
California. Therefore, it is fitting and proper
that we honor her here today.
f
COMMERCE CITY BUSINESS AP-
PRECIATION 2018 AWARD—JESSE
AND BECKY MARQUEZ
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Jesse and
Becky Marquez for receiving Commerce City’s
Business Appreciation 2018 Business on The
Move Award.
The Retail Investment Award honors a re-
tailer or commercial developer who contributed
to Commerce City’s economic vitality through
the introduction of a new business that
brought new employment and/or new capital
investment to the city in the last year. As co-
owners of Anchor Crossfit, Jesse and Becky
Marquez share a love of well-balanced,
healthy lifestyles and the desire to bring this
passion to the Commerce City community.
When Anchor Crossfit outgrew its existing
space, the Marquez’s saw an opportunity to
meet the needs of the residents and visitors.
They took a risk, built a new building, and met
the demand for more restaurants and social
gathering places.
Together with his co-founders, Jesse
Marquez created Pour Tap House, where resi-
dents and visitors can enjoy a variety of craft
beers with a focus on beers from Colorado.
Pour Tap House hosts weekly events to bring
a wide variety of people in, and then keep
welcoming them back—including trivia, poker,
yoga, and crafting nights. All together the
8,450 square-foot building now houses Anchor
Crossfit, Pour Tap House, and space for a sit-
down restaurant.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Jesse and Becky Marquez for this well-de-
served recognition from the Commerce City.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOHN H. RUTHERFORD
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker, I was
ill. Had I been present, I would have voted
Nay on Roll Call No. 106, and Nay on Roll
Call No. 107.
HONORING THE NORTH COUNTRY
CAMPS ON THEIR 100TH ANNI-
VERSARY
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor The North Country Camps on
their 100th anniversary.
Camp Lincoln for boys and Camp
Whippoorwill for girls have provided children in
the North Country an opportunity to spend
their summers in a safe, healthy, and edu-
cational environment for generations. By en-
gaging children in challenging programs such
as sailing, canoeing, archery and wilderness
excursions, North Country Camps helps chil-
dren build confidence, resourcefulness and
independence. These are skills they will carry
with them for life. The camp also runs a schol-
arship to ensure that children can attend re-
gardless of their family’s ability to pay.
None of this would be possible without the
steadfast commitment of four generations of
the Gucker Family. The camp was founded by
Colba ‘‘Chief’’ Gucker and his family has car-
ried on this tradition ever since.
On behalf of New York’s 21st District, I want
to thank the Gucker family for their commit-
ment to our community and congratulate them
on the centennial anniversary of The North
Country Camps.
f
COMMERCE CITY BUSINESS AP-
PRECIATION 2018 AWARD—NEXUS
TEAM
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Nexus Team
for receiving Commerce City’s Business Ap-
preciation 2018 Business on The Move Award.
The Economic Development Award for
Leadership honors a business or individual
that has been a catalyst toward economic vi-
tality in Commerce City through creative lead-
ership, innovation, facilitation, collaboration or
through contribution of resources. Thanks to
the pioneering vision of C.H. Thompson Com-
pany and Schuck Communities, the Tower
Road corridor is now taking shape as a prime
opportunity for development in the Denver
Metro area. As a result of their leadership and
vision, a 200-acre business park has begun to
transform from empty land into a thriving de-
velopment that will support new and growing
businesses investing and creating jobs in
Commerce City for many years to come.
I extend my deepest congratulations to the
Nexus Team for this well-deserved recognition
from Commerce City.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.014 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E340 March 25, 2019
IN HONOR OF JULIE SCHWIETERT
COLLAZO
HON. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
Madam Speaker, I, along with Representative
OCASIO-CORTEZ, rise to recognize Julie
Schwietert Collazo who received a women’s
history month award from us and from
Assemblywoman Aravella Simotas at a cere-
mony in Queens on March 22nd. Ms.
Schwietert Collazo is being recognized for her
part in founding Immigrant Families Together,
which works to support families in danger of
being separated by anti-immigrant policies.
In June 2018, along with her husband, Fran-
cisco Collazo, she founded what has evolved
into Immigrant Families Together (IFT), an or-
ganization of rapid response volunteers who
fight back against punitive immigration poli-
cies, including zero tolerance and family sepa-
ration, that have traumatized the nation’s di-
verse population. IFT was created when a
group of mothers learned about Yeni Gon-
zalez, a Guatemalan immigrant who was jailed
in Arizona because she could not post bond,
and whose three children were taken to New
York. Ms. Gonzalez could not put together the
$7500 needed to secure her release. When
Ms. Schwietert Collazo and others heard
about her plight, they raised the money to pay
her bail and then helped transport her to New
York, arranging for her to sleep at the homes
of volunteers. They eventually helped her gain
full custody of her children, and found her
shelter, food and legal counsel.
In six short months, almost entirely through
social media, Ms. Schwietert Collazo and IFT
raised nearly a million dollars. IFT now pro-
vides funding to pay bonds to secure the re-
lease of other immigrants facing deportation,
and often donates critical funding to cover liv-
ing expenses, medical costs and legal fees.
To date they have posted bond for more than
65 parents, grandparents, and older siblings
who had been detained by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement and separated from
their families. They also provide ongoing sup-
port and services for families who have filed
asylum applications so that they can build
healthy, stable lives while their applications
are being processed.
As a result of her work with Immigrant Fami-
lies Together, Ms. Schwietert Collazo has be-
come a much sought-after speaker and com-
mentator on immigration policy, migration, and
resettlement issues.
Ms. Schwietert Collazo is a former social
worker and creative arts therapist, who is cur-
rently working as a writer, editor, and trans-
lator. She left the field of social work and psy-
chotherapy in 2004 to live abroad and to focus
on her own writing full-time. She has inter-
viewed the First Lady of Belize and the Span-
ish chef Ferran Adrı́a, has covered the state
visit of Prince Harry in Belize, and in 2008
was one of the few journalists permitted to
visit the U.S. detention facility at Guantanamo
Bay. She co-wrote/edited a book about Pope
Francis, which to date has been translated
into more than a dozen languages and is a
bestseller in Italy.
Madam Speaker, we ask our colleagues to
join us in recognizing the compassionate work
Julie Schwietert Collazo and Immigrant Fami-
lies Together are doing to help recent immi-
grants achieve their American dream.
f
HONORING DENNIS L. PATILLO
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and recognize Dennis L. Patillo.
On January 16, the Guadalupe-Blanco River
Authority (GBRA) board of directors elected
Dennis L. Patillo, of Victoria, as chairman of
the nine-member governing body. The GBRA
was established in 1933, and serves as a
steward of water resources for ten counties,
including, Calhoun, DeWitt, Refugio, and Vic-
toria counties.
Mr. Patillo is the owner of the PumpHouse
Riverside Restaurant and Bar in Victoria,
Texas. In addition, he is the president of Stew-
art Title of the Coastal Bend Inc. and presi-
dent of Evangelynn Hospitality LLC.
The GBRA first appointed Mr. Patillo to the
board of directors in 2011. Mr. Patillo’s partici-
pation and service in the district is noteworthy.
He is the past chairman of the Victoria Eco-
nomic Development Corporation, the Texas
Association of Realtors, and the Houston As-
sociation of Realtors. Mr. Patillo served on the
Texas Tax Reform Commission, the University
of Houston Commission on Downward Expan-
sion, the DeTar Healthcare System, and the
Victoria County Airport Commission.
I would like to extend my sincere congratu-
lations to Dennis L. Patillo on becoming chair
of the GBRA, as well as my thanks for his
years of dedication to the people of Victoria
and the 27th District of Texas.
f
COMMERCE CITY BUSINESS AP-
PRECIATION 2018 AWARD—OLD
DOMINION FREIGHT LINE INC.
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Old Dominion
Freight Line Inc. for receiving Commerce
City’s Business Appreciation 2018 Business
on The Move Award.
The Business of the Year Award is given to
a Commerce City company with a pioneering
spirit that has shown a history of leadership
within its industry and the community. Old Do-
minion Freight Line has demonstrated lon-
gevity and sustained growth within the com-
munity. Old Dominion Freight Line is a less-
than-truckload (LTL) motor carrier providing
regional, inter-regional and national LTL serv-
ice and value-added logistics services.
Old Dominion Freight Line built its Com-
merce City service center in 1997, expanded
in 2016 and then expanded again in 2018.
These renovations accommodate the tremen-
dous growth in the Colorado marketplace,
making the service center the most advanced
service center in the Denver Metro area and
enabling the company to expand its customer
base both locally and globally.
The facility employs 330 people, 26 of which
were hired because of service center growth.
All of these employees have future growth po-
tential within Old Dominion Freight Line. I ex-
tend my deepest congratulations to Old Do-
minion Freight Line Inc. for this well-deserved
recognition from Commerce City.
f
IN HONOR AND MEMORY OF VET-
ERANS ADVOCATE AND AMER-
ICAN LEGION AUXILLARY LEAD-
ER DALE ‘‘ANN’’ MORAN
HON. JENNIFER WEXTON
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Ms. WEXTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the memory of the late Dale ‘‘Ann’’
Moran, a dedicated and selfless advocate for
the veterans community across the Common-
wealth of Virginia, especially here in Virginia’s
10th Congressional District.
Ann was an active member of the American
Legion Auxiliary, unit 293 of Purcellville, VA
for 35 years. Mrs. Moran truly lived the Auxil-
iary motto, ‘‘Service, Not Self’’. Ann dem-
onstrated this commitment through her tre-
mendous leadership over the course of her
time with the Auxiliary. Her roles included the
Department Historian for the American Legion
Auxiliary, Department of Virginia, 2-time North-
ern Zone Vice President, and multiple chair-
manships. She served as the 16th District
President and held various chairmanships at
the district level. In her home office, Unit 293,
Ann at one time served in every office, in
every chairmanship, and served as a mentor
to countless members. She played a major
role in the Unit’s successes at the Department
and National Level, including receiving na-
tional awards for her Department Chairman re-
ports.
In addition to her various leadership posi-
tions, Ann played an important role in directly
assisting veterans through her work as a Vet-
eran Service Officer where she worked with
veterans in identifying and correcting a need,
and helped them obtain the services that they
had earned. She also established the ‘‘Blan-
keting Veterans with Love’’ initiative. Through
this initiative Ann enlisted the involvement of
her family, friends, and community to craft
more than 300 blankets for veterans returning
from combat. Ann also worked with the Mar-
tinsburg Vet Center to bring a satellite vet cen-
ter to Loudoun County, and was a tireless
supporter of Boulder Crest retreat, a local re-
treat for Military, Veterans, and their families.
Ann was also a devoted wife, mother, and
grandmother. Her legacy lives on through her
husband, Thomas R., and son Thomas D.
Moran, daughter in law Shannon, and two
grandchildren. Mrs. Moran was also a 25-year
employee of the Loudoun County School sys-
tem.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you and our col-
leagues join me in recognizing the outstanding
contributions that Mrs. Ann Moran so gra-
ciously made to our veterans, our district, the
commonwealth, and nation. While we join her
family in mourning her loss, we stand today to
celebrate her commitment and legacy, on be-
half of a grateful nation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.018 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E341
March 25, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE 84TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE CULINARY UNION
HON. STEVEN HORSFORD
OF NEVADA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Speaker, I ask
that this body recognize the Culinary Union’s
84th Anniversary.
Since 1935, the Culinary Union has im-
proved the lives of hundreds of thousands of
Nevada hospitality workers and their families.
Its continued fight to secure good benefits and
union wages for its members have made it an
essential economic institution in the Silver
State.
The Culinary Union can rightfully claim that
it has won a ‘‘middle-class standard of living’’
for more than 700,000 hospitality workers dur-
ing its 84 years. Its guest room attendants,
cocktail and food servers, porters, bellmen,
cooks, bartenders, laundry and kitchen work-
ers hail from 178 different countries and speak
40 different languages.
I’m proud of the work this union has
accomplished.
f
CONGRATULATING NORMA EHRIG
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Norma Ehrig of Gonzales,
Texas, for receiving the David B. Walshak
Lifetime Achievement Award.
The 97th Annual Gonzales Chamber of
Commerce banquet recognized Mrs. Ehrig for
her exceptional community engagement. Her
friends and colleagues vouched for her much
deserved recognition.
Mrs. Ehrig’s involvement in the community
has tremendously affected the lives of the
youth. At Gonzales East Avenue Primary
School, she counsels students and assists dis-
advantaged children.
Mrs. Ehrig’s commitment includes providing
funds for these underprivileged kids to buy
food and clothing when their families are not
there to support them. And as Mrs. Ehrig is
never one to seek recognition, her family was
not even aware of her financial contributions
to help those less fortunate. Her family em-
braced her selfless acts and appreciated the
way in which she devoted herself to helping
the community.
Mrs. Ehrig has also assisted Gonzales’
Child Protective Services; she helped raise
funding for essential examination equipment to
investigate severe child abuse. With her help,
the city established the Gonzales Regional
Child Advocacy Center.
To honor her, the board members renamed
the center as ‘‘Norma’s House’’ in 2001 and
recognized her as a permanent board mem-
ber.
I would like to extend my sincere thanks
and gratitude to Mrs. Ehrig and recognize her
tremendous service in the Gonzales commu-
nity.
COMMERCE CITY BUSINESS AP-
PRECIATION 2018 AWARD—STILL-
WATER DAY SPA
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Stillwater Day
Spa for receiving Commerce City’s Business
Appreciation 2018 Business on The Move
Award.
The Business on the Move Award recog-
nizes businesses bringing new employment,
growth in sales or new capital investment to
the city in the last year. Entrepreneurs Lewis
Ortiz and Michael Bertles see nothing but po-
tential in the Commerce City and work hard to
provide needed services to the community.
Their work began with Heart and Soul Floral
providing floral services to more recently pro-
viding health and wellness services in the
northern range with the Stillwater Day Spa.
Stillwater Day Spa offers a full range of spa
services including massage, facials, waxing,
fillers, injections, and more. Since opening in
October 2017, the company has steadily in-
creased its product and service offerings and
has doubled in size to accommodate the
growing business. Stillwater Day Spa supports
other local entrepreneurs and small busi-
nesses by selling their products at the spa,
partnering with them on monthly giveaways,
and leasing out space within their suite to an-
other small business as well.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Still-
water Day Spa for this well-deserved recogni-
tion from Commerce City.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF CARLOS JOSE
CARRANCO, SR.
HON. HENRY CUELLAR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CUELLAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the life of Mr. Carlos Jose
Carranco, Sr.
Mr. Carranco was born and raised in La-
redo, TX. He attended Martin High School and
eventually served as a combat infantryman
during World War II. He proudly served his
country and was honorably discharged in May
of 1946.
After the war, Mr. Carranco graduated from
Laredo Junior College before attending Texas
A&I, known today as Texas A&M University-
Kingsville, where he received his bachelor’s
degree in education and master’s degree in
education administration. Mr. Carranco later
made an impact educating his local commu-
nity for 42 years as a secondary school teach-
er and at Laredo Community College. He also
served as a Principal at both Thomas San-
chez Elementary School and Santa Maria Ele-
mentary School in Laredo; together comprising
26 years of his educational career.
Mr. Carranco was a well-respected indi-
vidual who led a life of service. He was a
steward of the Laredo community through
teaching and helping others reach their full po-
tential. His dedication to others demonstrates
what it really means to be an American.
Mr. Carranco is survived by his wife of 15
years, Bessie Lee Carranco, his brother Anto-
nio Carranco, as well as several children,
grandchildren, and great-grandchildren.
f
HONORING DR. MARY WILLIAMS
URGENT AND PRIMARY CARE OF
CLARKSDALE, MS
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Dr. Mary Wil-
liams.
Dr. Mary Williams was born to Albert and
Emma Williams. She is the ninth child of ten
children. Six sisters: Dorothy, Olivia, Sherlie,
Maretta, Deleatha, and Chrystal and three
brothers: Morris, Jeffrey, and Donald. Mary
was raised in Marks, Mississippi. She is the
owner of Urgent and Primary Care of Clarks-
dale, Mississippi, the first Urgent Care clinic to
be opened in Clarksdale, Mississippi. Dr. Mary
Williams is recognized amongst family, her
community, and her colleagues as a woman of
integrity, service, compassion, and outstanding
spirit.
Dr. Williams attended and graduated from
Quitman County High School. After earning
her high school diploma (1987), Northwest
Community College, where she earned her
Associate Degree in Nursing, Delta State Uni-
versity with a Bachelor of Science Degree in
Nursing and then attended Mississippi Univer-
sity for Women where she received her Mas-
ter of Science Degree. With her commitment
to becoming the best in her field, she attended
the University of Tennessee Health Science
Center in 2011, where she received her Doc-
tor of Nursing Degree with a major in Forensic
Nursing.
Dr. Williams is also a Board-Certified Family
Nurse Practitioner at Northwest MS Regional
Medical Center, where her specialty is Renal
Disease and Hypertension Management. She
has spent her entire life building strong work-
ing relationships in the healthcare field and
educating people on the importance of main-
taining a healthy lifestyle.
Dr. Williams owned and operated Clarks-
dale’s first locally owned hospice agency in
2001 thru 2007. She holds licenses to practice
as a Nurse Practitioner in the state of Mis-
sissippi and Tennessee. She is also a mem-
ber of the Mississippi Nurses Association,
American Nurses Association, American Asso-
ciation for Nurse Practitioners and the National
Kidney Foundation.
Dr. Williams has been named one of the
Top 50 Mississippi Leading Business Women
in the state of Mississippi. She has received
numerous awards in healthcare. She credits
all of her achievements to her strong founda-
tion in God. She is a member of St. Matthew
Church of God in Christ and an active mem-
ber of Iota Delta Omega chapter of Alpha
Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. where she currently
serves as President.
Dr. Williams is the proud mother of two chil-
dren, Ebony and Andre, and four grand-
children. Dr. Williams’ leadership, passion,
dedication, dependability, and service have
made her synonymous with being one of the
best, if not the best Family Nurse Practitioners
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.021 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E342 March 25, 2019
in the Mississippi Delta. Dr. Williams is recog-
nized for her service to God, her family, her
country, her community, and the people that
seek her help.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Dr. Mary Williams for her
dedication to serving this great state and
country.
f
RECOGNIZING THE WILLIAMSON
FAMILY
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Ed, Carol, and Trae
Williamson. The Williamsons are pillars of the
South Florida community and have been
named Citizens of the Year by the Biscayne
Bay Kiwanis Club, one of my District’s most
active community service organizations.
The Biscayne Bay Kiwanis Club serves dis-
advantaged children in Miami through partner-
ships with more than a dozen local schools. In
addition, the Club has awarded over $200,000
in college scholarships over the past seven
years.
This year marks the first time the Biscayne
Bay Kiwanis Club has selected an entire fam-
ily for the Citizen of the Year Award. Ed,
Carol, and Trae have made tremendous con-
tributions to our community, both through Ed’s
business, the Williamson Automative Group,
and through their involvement with numerous
community organizations in Miami, including
the Orange Bowl Committee, the Greater
Miami Chamber of Commerce, the Beacon
Council, the Dade Foundation, the United Way
of Dade County, the Rotary Club of South
Florida, and the Miami Business Forum. The
Williamsons are also generous supporters of
the University of Miami, where Trae is cur-
rently a PhD candidate and adjunct professor
in management.
The Williamson family exemplifies extraor-
dinary dedication to the South Florida commu-
nity. I am pleased to celebrate their achieve-
ments as community leaders.
f
CELEBRATING THE LOVE BE-
TWEEN MICHAEL AND
ESPERANZA
HON. MARC A. VEASEY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. VEASEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to offer my greatest congratulations to Michael
Ortiz Ayala and Esperanza Padilla Ayala for
their 70th wedding anniversary.
On this special anniversary, I’m delighted to
know Michael and Esperanza are surrounded
by their loving family including their three chil-
dren: Carlos, Dolores and Teresa; and their
nine grandchildren and nine great-grand-
children. They join this lovely couple in cele-
brating the love and partnership they have
shared for nearly three quarters of a century.
The love shared between these two continues
to inspire their friends and all their loved ones
in Fort Worth.
I’m delighted to wish them many more years
together.
f
HONORING VERNA MUSTICO AS
WOMAN OF THE YEAR
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Verna Mustico,
whom I have named the 2019 Woman of the
Year in Solano County, California. Woman of
the Year recognizes women who have made
important contributions to California’s 5th Con-
gressional District in Arts and Culture, Profes-
sional Achievement, Entrepreneurship and In-
novation or Community Service.
Ms. Mustico has been dedicated to our
community for over 60 years. She has served
as the Chair of the Board of the Vallejo Cham-
ber of Commerce. During her tenure she
helped establish a new headquarters down-
town and started the Leadership Vallejo Pro-
gram. The Chamber was also awarded sev-
eral awards under her leadership. Ms. Mustico
assisted the Salvation Army with finding a
Vallejo location and opening a soup kitchen.
Ms. Mustico led the effort to build a helipad at
Sutter Solano Medical Center. She organized
our community to raise $250,000 for the
project. She was also instrumental in the suc-
cessful $500,000 fundraising campaign for the
East Wing expansion of the Medical Center.
Most recently, Ms. Mustico worked to rename
the main post office in Vallejo after Janet
Capello, her longtime friend and a prominent
Vallejoan.
Ms. Mustico has participated on numerous
boards and received many awards for her self-
less service. She is a past president and a
member of the Vallejo Rotary Club, which
awarded her Rotarian of the Year. She is also
the past president and a member of the
Vallejo Symphony Association Board. Ms.
Mustico is a lifetime member of the Solano
Association Board of Realtors and serves on
the Scholarship Committee. She has also
been honored by the California State Assem-
bly for her professional and civic achieve-
ments.
Ms. Mustico was born in Oklahoma and
moved to San Diego at the age of four. She
moved to Vallejo in 1951 and began her ca-
reer at the Coca Cola Bottling Company and
Staats & Bell Furniture. She is the Broker and
Owner of Mustico Realty in Vallejo, a success-
ful real estate company that she founded. She
was married to Peter Mustico, with whom she
has two daughters, for 58 years. She has five
grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, Verna Mustico is an in-
credible member of our community whose tire-
less work throughout her career has benefited
the women throughout Solano County and
California. Therefore, it is fitting and proper
that we honor her here today.
CONGRATULATING HARVIE
CHISHOLM
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize and congratulate Ms. Harvie
Chisholm, who resides on Padre Island in Cor-
pus Christi, Texas.
Ms. Chisholm recently celebrated her 104th
birthday, which makes her the oldest Islander.
She accredits her spry longevity to a diet con-
sisting of chocolate and bananas.
I would like to extend my heartfelt congratu-
lations to Harvie Chisholm and look forward to
her soon celebrating her 105th.
f
COMMENDING THE UNIVERSITY OF
HOUSTON COUGARS MEN’S BAS-
KETBALL TEAM ON CHAMPION-
SHIP SEASON
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the University of Hous-
ton Cougars Men’s Basketball Team on its ex-
traordinary success during the 2018–2019
season.
I am proud to represent this exceptional uni-
versity, which is located in the heart of the
18th Congressional District of Texas.
The University of Houston men’s basketball
team were dominant throughout the season,
compiling a 30–2 overall record and 16–2 in
conference play.
This season marks the first outright Amer-
ican Athletic Conference Championship, which
confers an automatic berth to the NCAA Men’s
College Basketball Tournament.
The Cougars were consistently ranked in
the Top 20 all season and currently are
ranked No. 11 in the Associated Press Poll
and No. 10 in the Coaches Poll.
The Cougars opened their March Madness
quest on Thursday, March 21, in Tulsa, Okla-
homa as the No. 3 seed in the Midwest Re-
gion, where they defeated Georgia State, 84–
55.
After defeating Ohio State 74–59, on Sun-
day, March 24, the Cougars advanced to the
Sweet 16 for the first time in 35 years.
The Cougars next take the court this Friday
against the No. 2 seed Kentucky Wildcats at
the Sprint Center in Kansas City, Missouri.
Madam Speaker, you should also know that
this historic season includes the selection of
Cougars Head Coach Kelvin Sampson as
AAC Coach of the Year.
This year’s success of the student athletes
at the University of Houston, together with its
first-rate academic program, shows the nation
and the world the formidable prowess of this
fine institution led by its dynamic and visionary
Chancellor and President, Dr. Renu Khato.
I commend congratulate Coach Sampson,
the Cougars and wish them continued success
at the Big Dance.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.024 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E343
March 25, 2019
IN HONOR OF JEFF
SHELLEBARGER
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
pay tribute to Mr. Jeff Shellebarger on his re-
tirement of 38 years of service with Chevron
Corporation.
After graduating from the University of Geor-
gia with a bachelor’s and a master’s in geol-
ogy, Jeff Shellebarger began his Chevron ca-
reer in 1980 as an exploration geologist in
New Orleans. Throughout the 1980s, Jeff con-
tinued to earn assignments of increasing re-
sponsibility at Chevron. He established himself
as a highly respected, effective leader, and by
1990 was named division geologist of Western
Gulf of Mexico.
Jeff’s career continued to accelerate. Not
only did his work in managerial and develop-
ment roles take him to Houston, San Fran-
cisco, and Bakersfield, but also overseas to
Angola and Indonesia. Regardless of location,
Jeff earned the trust and respect of his col-
leagues and the surrounding community.
In his last and most recent role, Jeff served
as President of Chevron North America Explo-
ration & Production Company. He worked to
reshape and reposition the company, leading
to record-setting production, increased rev-
enue, and stronger, more competitive perform-
ance.
Jeff’s focus on the Permian Basin strength-
ened Chevron’s North American portfolio, and
as production continues to soar, will play a
vital role in America’s energy renaissance.
Over his 38-year career, Jeff has led with
ethics, integrity, and a commitment to commu-
nity. During his tenure as President, Jeff
worked to advance Houston’s standing as a
world-class city. He served as a Vice Chair-
man of the Houston Super Bowl LI host com-
mittee, Chairman of the Greater Houston Part-
nership, and Chairman of the 23rd World Pe-
troleum Congress Houston Organizing Com-
mittee. Over the years he has also served on
the American Petroleum Institute’s Upstream
Committee, the Board of the United Way of
Greater Houston, the Houston Museum of
Natural Science, and the Kinder Institute.
In retirement, Jeff and his wife Sydney look
forward to having more time to read, travel, at-
tend University of Georgia sporting events,
and of course, spend time with their grand-
children.
I am proud to join Jeff’s family, friends, and
colleagues to congratulate Jeff on his retire-
ment and thank him for his diligent service to
our community. I wish him all the best that his
well-earned retirement has to offer.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF MICKEY
KANE, RECIPIENT OF THE WYO-
MING VALLEY CHILDREN’S AS-
SOCIATION’S 2019 ‘‘MAKING A
DIFFERENCE’’ AWARD
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Mickey Kane who re-
ceived the Wyoming Valley Children’s Asso-
ciation’s (WVCA) ‘‘Making A Difference’’
Award along with her husband Kevin Kane on
Friday, March 22, 2019 during the organiza-
tion’s 95th Anniversary Gala.
The WVCA provides quality, early childhood
education as well as physical, occupational,
and speech therapy programs to students and
developing children that have been diagnosed
with Autism, Down syndrome, or speech
delays. The ‘‘Making A Difference Award’’ rec-
ognizes individuals who go above and beyond
in their commitment and service to the WVCA.
Mickey is a Senior Registered Associate
with Morgan Stanley in Wilkes Barre, PA. She
started with Morgan Stanley’s predecessor
firm in 1988. Mickey holds a General Securi-
ties Representative License (Series 7) and
passed the Uniform Combined State Law Ex-
amination (Series 66). Mickey is essential to
several Morgan Stanley Financial Advisor
teams, and she is responsible for administra-
tive and account services for Wealth Manage-
ment clients.
Kevin and Mickey are the proud parents of
two children: Katie and Sean. Together they
established the Sean P. Kane Memorial Fund
in honor of their son. It is intended to support
services, programs, and causes aligned with
health, wellness, and wellbeing of people
across the community, with an emphasis on
individuals with special needs.
Mickey has been active in the WVCA Walk-
A-Thon for more than 25 years, coordinating
‘‘Team Katie’’ for that event. In addition, she
also works on the committee for the annual
Sean P. Kane Memorial Mixer.
It is an honor to recognize Mickey as she
and Kevin accept the Wyoming Valley Chil-
dren’s Association’s ‘‘Making A Difference’’
Award. May they continue to support the early
childhood education needs of our community.
f
IN HONOR OF JULIA SORRENTINO
AND MEGAN STOTTS FOR THEIR
LEADERSHIP OF HEARTS
ACROSS QUEENS
HON. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
Madam Speaker, I along with Representative
OCASIO-CORTEZ rise to recognize Julia
Sorrentino and Megan Stotts who received a
women’s history month award from us and
from Assemblywoman Aravella Simotas at a
ceremony in Queens on March 22nd for their
leadership of Hearts Across Queens, an orga-
nization that is dedicated to protecting, sup-
porting and empowering their neighbors and
acting together to create positive change. Life-
long activists, Ms. Sorrentino and Ms. Stotts
joined with other local mothers to create an or-
ganization to amplify their concerns and bring
like-minded neighbors together.
In 2016, an inspired group of women started
Hearts Across Queens with the goal of sharing
information about local events and social
issues, while advocating for tolerance and di-
versity in Western Queens. Their aim is to
help women understand and exercise their
own power, while fostering beneficial relation-
ships among people with common purpose.
Hearts Across Queens creates a sense of
community through local activism and commu-
nity events that support positive change, ena-
bling and empowering people of all ages and
backgrounds.
Every Wednesday, the members of Hearts
Across Queens unite to meet other mothers
and develop alliances, while teaching their
children to face their fears and make plans for
a brighter future. They have organized events,
including a candidates forum, mini-speakouts,
and a program to teach children how to get in-
volved and de-escalate violence.
Ms. Sorrentino teaches at LaGuardia Com-
munity College. She is the creator of the se-
ries, Queens Women in STEAM, where local
women are featured each day of Women’s
History Month, sharing their stories with Dis-
trict 30 students, and their neighborhoods. Ms.
Sorrentino was also a founding member of No
IDC NY, a highly successful grassroots move-
ment that challenged a group of Democrats
that had been caucusing with Republicans in
the New York State Senate. Their progressive,
Democratic candidates unseated 7 of the 8
Independent Democratic Caucus members in
the 2018 election.
Megan Stotts has volunteered for several
local organizations and campaigns. Her cur-
rent focus is Immigrant Families Together,
which works to combat anti-immigrant policies
of the current administration. She also serves
on the Queens County Committee. In 2017,
Ms. Stotts helped organize a rally protesting
the MTA’s decision to renovate subway sta-
tions without making them accessible. She
was inspired to take action because as a
mother of young children she knows how dif-
ficult it is to travel with a stroller when there
is no elevator.
Ms. Sorrentino and Ms. Stotts were co-re-
cipients of the Taminent Regular Democratic
Club 2018 Political Activism award.
Madam Speaker, we ask our colleagues to
join us in honoring the work done by Julia
Sorrentino, Megan Stotts and the members of
Hearts Across Queens whose collaborative
activism is making a real difference in their
community.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF HERBERT
KELLEHER
HON. HENRY CUELLAR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CUELLAR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the life of Herbert Kelleher.
Mr. Kelleher was born in Camden, New Jer-
sey to Ruth and Harry Kelleher. He attended
Wesleyan University and received his bach-
elor’s degree in English and a minor in Philos-
ophy. At Wesleyan, he was an Olin Scholar
and president of the student body. He later at-
tended law school at New York University
where he was a Root-Tilden Scholar. He and
his wife eventually moved to Texas, where he
co-founded Southwest Airlines and helped
build one of the world’s largest and most suc-
cessful airlines.
As CEO and Executive Chairman of South-
west Airlines, Mr. Kelleher, was known as a
witty, inspiring, and compassionate leader and
friend. He also valued his employees above all
else and never laid off a single worker. He re-
ceived many honors and awards including
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.030 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E344 March 25, 2019
CEO of the year and even CEO of the century
by Texas Monthly Magazine. He was well-
known within the business and financial world
and received awards such as the Bower
Award for Business Leadership from the
Franklin Institute. He is also remembered
through scholarships named in his honor such
as the Herbert D. Kelleher Servant Leader
Scholarship. Mr. Kelleher also played a role
on many boards such as the Federal Reserve
Bank of Dallas, the National Air and Space
Museum, and the Homeland Security Advisory
Council.
Mr. Kelleher, often referred to by his first
name Herb, was also dearly loved by his fam-
ily. He is survived by his wife, Joan Negley
Kelleher, whom he met while attending school
at Wesleyan University. They were married for
sixty-four years and had four children. He is
survived by three of his children, Michael
Kelleher, David Kelleher and Ruth Agather. He
is also lovingly remembered by nine grand-
children, who called him ‘‘Poppair’’.
f
HONORING TIMOTHY V. CHAMBERS
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor a remarkable
public servant. Mr. Timothy V. Chambers. He
holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Indus-
trial Technology from Alcorn State University.
He later pursued further studies in the edu-
cation program at Jackson State University
and received his standard teaching certificate.
Mr. Chambers earned his Masters Degree in
Educational Leadership and Administration
from Jackson State University.
He started his education career teaching in
Canton, Mississippi where he spent seven
years collectively between Canton Elementary
School, Nichols Middle School and the Canton
Career Center. Mr. Chambers served as as-
sistant principal at Canton Elementary School,
Nichols Middle School and principal at Canton
Educational Services Center. From there, Mr.
Chambers traveled to Leake County to serve
as principal for Leake County High School.
While at Leake County High School, he suc-
cessfully improved the school’s rating from a
failing school to a successful status. He then
journeyed back home where he served as
principal at Canton High School and director
at the Canton Career Center.
Mr. Chambers’ educational experiences
have afforded him the opportunity to collabo-
rate with a diverse group of people to meet
the common goal of increasing student
achievement and well-being. His educational
philosophy is based on his uncompromising
belief that all students can learn, given a posi-
tive learning environment, strong and knowl-
edgeable leadership, a committed and focused
educational team, an encouraging community,
and a supportive family.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Mr. Timothy V. Chambers
for his dedication to serving.
CONGRATULATING WILBUR
BONTRAGER ON HIS RETIRE-
MENT AFTER 47 YEARS AT
JAYCO
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Wilbur Bontrager on his
retirement from Jayco, Inc., after 47 years of
dedicated and impressive service.
Wilbur was intimately involved with Jayco
from its inception, having helped his parents
Lloyd and Bertha set up the original facility on
their family farm in Middlebury in 1968. He of-
ficially joined the Jayco team in the spring of
1971, utilizing his engineering and manufac-
turing skills to drive innovation and growth. He
rose to the position of Executive Vice Presi-
dent in 1985, and then became CEO and
Chairman of the Board in 1993. He later
stepped down as CEO but remained Chair-
man until his retirement.
Wilbur made invaluable and far-reaching
contributions not only to the company but also
to the northern Indiana RV industry and our
region’s economy. Wilbur helped grow the
small family business into a manufacturing
powerhouse with nearly 4,000 employees.
Over the last few decades, northern Indiana
has grown into the RV capital of the world,
and Hoosiers have dynamic companies like
Jayco and excellent leaders like Wilbur to
thank for that. Wilbur’s remarkable vision and
innovation have helped shape the landscape
of made-in-America RVs, and the industry is
sure to miss his leadership He even received
the industry’s highest honor in 2008 when he
was inducted into the RV Hall of Fame. I want
to thank Wilbur for the vital role he has played
in creating good jobs for Hoosiers, and for his
unwavering commitment over the years to
Jayco’s hardworking employees.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Wilbur’s accomplishments in
nearly five decades at Jayco. He defines his
approach as doing things the ‘‘Jayco Way,’’
and for that we thank him. I am grateful for the
legacy Wilbur is leaving behind, and I wish
him all the best in the years to come.
f
HONORING MARIE ELAINE BEERY
AS WOMAN OF THE YEAR
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Marie Elaine
Beery, whom I have named the 2019 Woman
of the Year in Lake County, California. Woman
of the Year recognizes women who have
made important contributions to California’s
5th Congressional District in Arts and Culture,
Professional Achievement, Entrepreneurship
and Innovation or Community Service.
Ms. Beery has been active in our wine and
food community for over 30 years. From 1991
to 1999 she was the Chief Financial Officer for
Steele Wines. Since 2001, she has been the
proprietor of Saw Shop Gallery Bistro in
Kelseyville. Ms. Beery is also the founder and
leader of a local wine group for business-
women. Through this group, she aims to em-
power and develop future generations of fe-
male business leaders. She has been the
president of the Kelseyville Business Associa-
tion for three years and has sat on the Board
of Directors of the Lake County Wine Alliance
since 1998.
Ms. Beery devotes much of her time, energy
and resources to charitable organizations and
the betterment of our community. She is the
Treasurer of Habitat for Humanity Lake Coun-
ty and hosts their annual dinner at her res-
taurant. She also works year-round to orga-
nize the Lake County Wine Alliance Wine Auc-
tion. For this event, she collects donations, so-
licits sponsors and selects beneficiaries. Ms.
Beery generously supports local non-profits,
which positively impact our community. Some
of the organizations she works with include
the Hunger Task Force, the Imagination Li-
brary, Lake County Land Trust, Kelseyville
Senior Center and Kelseyville Food Pantry.
Ms. Beery grew up on a farm in Warsaw, In-
diana. She graduated from Pierceton High
School and studied at Ball State University
and the Marysville campus of Yuba College.
She has a daughter who was a longtime
teacher who now owns her own business like
her mother.
Madam Speaker, Marie Elaine Beery is an
incredible member of our community whose
tireless work throughout her career has bene-
fited the women throughout Lake County and
California. Therefore, it is fitting and proper
that we honor her here today.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MARIA
ANTONIA OJEDA
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, today I rise to honor the life of Maria Anto-
nia Ojeda who passed away in Buffalo, New
York surrounded by her loved ones on March
10, 2019 at the age of 82.
Born in Puerto Rico, Maria, lovingly referred
to as Tonia, enjoyed expressing her creativity
through her cooking, entertaining, and gar-
dening. She was well known for opening the
doors to her home to help those in need and
was well-respected in the communities in
which she lived and served. Her greatest pride
was her family, whom she loved dearly, and
her happiest moments were always when she
was surrounded by them. No amount of words
could wholly describe her, but she was best
known and revered for her determination, per-
severance, beauty, charity, wisdom and cour-
age.
Her beautiful life will forever be cherished by
her husband of over 55 years, Francisco
Ojeda, as well as by her eight children: Con-
ception, David, Jose Antonio, James, Eva,
William, Christine, and Margie. She will also
be remembered well by her sisters Maria Isa-
bel, Abigailee, Ramona, Margie, Clara, and
Rosa, and her brothers Gilberto, Luis, and
Ramon, as well as her 20 grandchildren, 29
great-grandchildren, and her many loved
nieces, nephews, and godchildren.
Madam Speaker, I honor the life of Maria
Antonia Ojeda, and I ask my colleagues to join
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.033 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E345
March 25, 2019
me in extending our deepest condolences to
her family and friends.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
CURTIS HAVEN KINCAID
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
memory of Curtis Haven Kincaid, a Victoria
resident and World War II Army veteran.
Curtis Haven Kincaid, born on November 6,
1921, in Hudson, Michigan, passed away on
January 29, 2019, at the age of 97.
In December 1939, Mr. Kincaid enlisted in
the U.S. Army. After the attack on Pearl Har-
bor, Mr. Kincaid was assigned to the 38th Di-
vision 150th Infantry Force, also known as the
‘‘Cyclone Division.’’ His unit was the first U.S.
Army combat forces deployed overseas after
December 7.
Mr. Kincaid was deployed to Europe in June
1944 and fought courageously in the Combat
Infantry through France, Belgium, and into
Germany, where he remained until Nazi Ger-
many’s defeat. He was honorably discharged
in December 1945 with the rank of Sergeant.
After his Army service, Mr. Kincaid left for
Texas and served as the Victoria representa-
tive for the Snap-On Tool Corporation from
1954 to 1998. He received recognition for set-
ting national sales records during his 44 years
of hard work with Snap-On.
I would like to extend my heartfelt condo-
lences to the Kincaid family and express ap-
preciation for his service to our community
and sacrifices for our country.
f
ROSIE THE RIVETER—MARINA
METEVALIS
HON. KEVIN HERN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Madam
Speaker, today I rise to honor a constituent
who truly has left a lasting legacy on our state
and our country.
Marina Metevalis was just 16 years old
when Pearl Harbor was bombed in 1941. This
traumatic event galvanized many Americans to
join the army or do whatever they could to
serve their country in our time of need. Marina
was inspired to apply for a job at the Wichita
aircraft plant, putting together the planes that
would defend our country.
Just a high schooler, Marina took up the
mantle of Rosie the Riveter, stepping up to do
what was at the time considered ‘‘men’s work’’
while our troops were fighting the Axis Powers
abroad.
Marina juggled school work with her job at
the aircraft plant, coming home after the night
shift to work on homework before getting up in
the morning to start all over again.
In the years since, Marina has gone on to
be an educator, a mother, and an inspiration
to many, but recalls her time as a Rosie the
Riveter as one of her proudest moments. Ma-
rina turns 95 years old today and remains just
as full of life and service-minded as she has
been her entire life.
Congress is pending legislation to award
Marina and the many other inspirational
women who joined the workforce during World
War II, taking on the mantle of ‘‘Rosie the Riv-
eter’’, with a Congressional Gold Medal. I look
forward to voting for her and our many Rosie
the Riveters to be awarded with this honor.
She is an example of true patriotism, self-
lessness, and American spirit. I thank her for
her service to our country and the legacy she
has left on our community.
f
HONORING MRS. VERNICE BLACK-
AVANT
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Mrs. Vernice
Black-Avant.
Vernice Black-Avant was born November
18, 1949 in Como, Mississippi to the late Al-
bert and Della Mae Black. She was the fifth
born of thirteen children. She was diagnosed
at the age of ten with a childhood spinal ill-
ness. She and her parents and friends spent
many months at LeBonheur Children’s Hos-
pital for surgeries, treatments and follow up
visits. She was blessed with praying parents
and grandparents: Effie Dodson Washington
and Armetha Walton Black, who both saw to
it that she had a Christian upbringing. She
grew up in a rural community just west of
Como, Mississippi. Vernice attended Car-
ruthers and Melrose Elementary and Como
Junior High School. In 1968, she and her fam-
ily moved to Longtown, MS. This move came
after her family was told to move over night or
be burned in that house because her parents
had encouraged her to attend a predominantly
all-white high school during her senior year in
high school.
After moving to Longtown, she met the man
of her dreams, Robert Allen Avant, Sr. in 1968
and married six months later after graduating
from North Panola High School. Following her
wedding on July thirteenth they relocated to
Chicago, Illinois for eighteen months. There
she enjoyed cooking with her mother-in-law,
Dorothy Jean Bishop-Avant and sitting in the
window on Halsted Street watching the many
Cadillac Eldorados go by as she waited for
her husband to come home from work. After
a couple years her aunt became sick, (her
mother-in-law’s sister) and they moved back to
Longtown. After her Aunt passed, they moved
to live with her mother-in-law in Memphis for
a few months. Then in 1972, she began her
career as an elementary school secretary at
Crenshaw Elementary School where she
worked for thirty-one years. While there, she
served as lunchroom bookkeeper, doctor,
counselor, negotiator, nurse, mediator, ac-
countant, police/protector and friend.
In 1973, Vernice and Robert were blessed
with their first son, Robert Allen Avant, Jr.
Issac Lanier was born five years later. In
1981, they were blessed with their third son,
Albert Hosia Jerriod Avant. A year later, they
moved into their first newly built home.
Vernice and Robert enrolled and attended
evening/night classes at Coahoma Community
College at the Crenshaw Interested Commu-
nity Builders Campus in Crenshaw, Mississippi
and both graduated in 1986 with Honors, merit
Scholarships, and with an Associate Arts De-
gree. From 1987 to August 4, 2008, Robert
Allen Avant, Sr. served as Panola County’s
District Two Supervisor with Vernice by his
side in full support. After retiring for a short
while, she went to work for a private corpora-
tion as secretary and bookkeeper for ten
years. In August of 2008, following Robert’s
untimely death due to a very rare lung cancer,
Vernice was sworn in as Supervisor of Panola
County’s 2nd District.
Currently, Vernice is serving her district and
Panola County as vice-President of North
Delta Planning and Development District, sec-
retary for the Crenshaw P–16 Council for
Crenshaw Elementary School and is an active
member of McIvor Creek Missionary Baptist
Church where she serves as President of the
Mother Board. She is a Mississippi Associa-
tion of Supervisors Education Committee
member, former Mississippi Association of Su-
pervisors Insurance Trust Board member, an
active member of the NAACP and is an active
member of Keep America Beautiful/Panola
County. In her quest to be a servant to the
people of Panola County, she made time to
care for her brothers-in-law, Micheal Avant
and Willie Avant, both of which lost battles to
oral and throat cancers in 2009 and 2018 re-
spectively. Vernice lost her eldest son, Robert
Jr., to a long battle with diabetes and later
colon and lung cancer in January, 2017.
Vernice continues to serve with God as her
focus point. She was recently nominated and
awarded the ‘‘Women of Excellence Award’’
by the National Foundation for Women Legis-
lators. All of Vernice and Robert’s children
have earned bachelor degrees. Lanier earned
his Juris Doctor degree from Howard Univer-
sity in 2007 and Jerriod is working on his PhD
in English at The University of Rhode Island.
Thanks for the opportunity to serve such great
people.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing Mrs. Vernice Black-Avant
for her dedication in serving her community.
f
HONORING DEPUTY RILEY
MICHELE JARECKI
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Deputy Riley
Michele Jarecki, whom I have named a Public
Safety Hero of the Year in Napa County, Cali-
fornia.
Ms. Jarecki was born in Napa, California
and has a family history of public service. She
is a third generation Napa County law enforce-
ment officer, following the footsteps of her fa-
ther, a Sergeant with the Napa County Sher-
iff’s Office, and her grandfather, who was a
Police Captain with the City of Napa Police
Department.
On February 17, 2019, Ms. Jarecki dis-
played her dedication to public safety. Around
11:00 pm, Ms. Jarecki was performing a vehi-
cle check on a rural road in Napa County.
After speaking with the driver from the pas-
senger side window, Ms. Jarecki moved to the
driver side window and asked the driver to roll
down the window. After rolling down the win-
dow, the driver presented a firearm and fired
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.037 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E346 March 25, 2019
at Ms. Jarecki. Ms. Jarecki remained calm
under pressure and radioed in her situation.
She moved to a better position and returned
fire to protect herself. Ms. Jarecki protected
herself and was not hit by the gunfire. Ms.
Jarecki’s immediate and calm response not
only saved her life, but also prevented harm
from being done to additional people. Deputy
Jarecki’s professionalism amidst intense pres-
sure is commendable and shows her commit-
ment to public service within our community.
Ms. Jarecki began her college career at
Napa Valley College before transferring to
Boise State University, where she earned a
Bachelor of Arts in communications and re-
ceived a certificate in public relations. Ms.
Jarecki has also coached girls soccer for
Napa Blaze and the Napa Sheriff Activities
League.
Madam Speaker, we thank Riley Michele
Jarecki for her dedication. For this reason, it is
fitting and proper that we honor her here
today.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 150TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF NEVADA BEING THE
FIRST STATE TO RATIFY THE
15TH AMENDMENT
HON. STEVEN HORSFORD
OF NEVADA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Speaker, I rise to
reflect Nevada’s status as the first state in the
Union to ratify the Fifteenth Amendment of the
United States Constitution which granted Afri-
can-American freedmen the right to vote.
The Fifteenth Amendment states that: ‘‘the
right of citizens of the United States to vote
shall not be denied or abridged by the United
States or by any state on account of race,
color, or previous condition of servitude.’’
It’s important that we recognize the impor-
tant role Nevada played in extending the fran-
chise 150 years ago this month. The work of
these Nevadans is directly connected to H.R.
1, H.R. 4, and this Congress’ ongoing fight for
voting rights for all eligible voters.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE PAY
EQUITY FOR ALL ACT OF 2019
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise to in-
troduce the Pay Equity for All Act of 2019, a
bill that will help eliminate the gender and ra-
cial pay gap by prohibiting employers from
asking job applicants for their salary history
before making a job or salary offer. Even
though many employers may not intentionally
discriminate against applicants or employees
based on gender, race or ethnicity, setting
wages based on salary history can reinforce
the wage gap. Members of historically dis-
advantaged groups often start their careers
with unfair and artificially low wages compared
to their white male counterparts, and the dis-
parities are compounded from job to job
throughout their careers. I am grateful that the
text of the Pay Equity for All Act was included
in the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 7). Rep-
resentatives ROSA DELAURO, JERRY NADLER
and JACKIE SPEIER are cosponsors of the Pay
Equity for All Act.
The Pay Equity for All Act will ensure that
applicants’ salaries are based on their skills
and merit, not on salary history, by assessing
penalties against employers who ask appli-
cants for their salary history during the inter-
view process or as a condition of employment.
It would also provide job applicants and em-
ployees with a private right of action against
employers who violate these provisions.
There is much work to be done to address
the wage gap. Our bill is an important step to-
ward addressing these disparities.
I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
f
HONORING SHERIFF LEROY
MOODY
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and recognize Sheriff Leroy Moody
for his dedication and commitment to pro-
tecting the people of San Patricio County.
Sheriff Moody was first elected in 1989 and
has devoted more than 54 years to keeping
the residents of San Patricio County safe.
Sheriff Moody plans on stepping down on
March 31, 2019.
I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks
and appreciation to Sheriff Leroy Moody for
his tremendous public service and devotion to
the people of the 27th District of Texas.
f
HONORING CAPTAIN JODIE
WOODROW MINOR, JR.
HON. ROBERT B. ADERHOLT
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, today I
would like to pay tribute to Captain (Promot-
able) Jodie Woodrow Minor, Jr. for his exem-
plary dedication to duty and service as an
Army Congressional Fellow and Congressional
Budget Liaison for the Assistant Secretary of
the Army (Financial Management and Comp-
troller). Later this afternoon, I will have the
honor to serve as guest speaker for Captain
Minor’s promotion ceremony in which he will
be promoted to the rank of Major.
Born in Carrollton, Alabama, a town that
was in the congressional district in which I
represented for six years, Captain Minor en-
listed in the United States Army as an Intel-
ligence Analyst and later commissioned as an
Adjutant General Corps officer after graduation
from Officer Candidate School. He holds As-
sociates Degree in Intelligence Operations
from Cochise College and a Bachelor’s in
Business Administration from Athens State
University. He also holds Master’s degrees in
Business Administration from Alabama Agri-
cultural and Mechanical University and in Leg-
islative Affairs from the George Washington
University. Captain Minor has served in a
broad range of assignments during his 14 year
Army career. His assignments took him across
the country including Fort Hood, Texas; Fort
Knox, Kentucky; Redstone Arsenal, Alabama;
Fort Carson, Colorado, and Washington, Dis-
trict of Columbia. He has two combat deploy-
ments encompassing over 27 months in Bagh-
dad, Iraq, supporting Operation Iraqi Freedom.
In 2017, I had the privilege of having Cap-
tain Minor serve in my office for a year as an
Army Congressional Fellow, and I found his
assistance invaluable during his subsequent
assignment as a Congressional Budget Liai-
son-Forward for the U.S. Army. Captain Minor
worked tirelessly with Members of Congress
and their staffs to accurately articulate the
Army’s budget positions to the Appropriations
Committees. His professionalism, diligence,
and commitment to the mission are un-
matched, and his work both as a fellow and as
a liaison very effectively represented the U.S.
Army and the Department of Defense to the
United States Congress.
The foundation of Jodie’s military success is
his family. His grandmother, Joeita Simon of
Carrollton, Alabama, provided the base of
working hard and ‘‘treating others the way you
would want to be treated’’, and this principle is
so evident in all he does. His aunt, Sherry An-
derson and mother, Vanessa Stewart have
also had integral roles in Jodie’s success.
Jodie’s daily inspiration comes from his three
daughters, Jasmine, Taryn and Trey. As Bap-
tist minister, his encouragement and strength
also comes from his faith in Jesus Christ.
Jodie serves as a model example and inspira-
tion for all around him to continually develop:
spiritually, mentally, and physically.
Throughout his career, Captain Minor has
positively impacted soldiers, peers, and supe-
riors. Our country has benefited tremendously
from his extraordinary leadership, judgment,
and passion. I join my colleagues today in
honoring his dedication to our Nation and in-
valuable service to the United States Con-
gress as an Army Congressional Budget Liai-
son.
Madam Speaker, it has been a genuine
pleasure to have worked with Captain Minor
over the last two and a half years. On behalf
of a grateful nation, I join my colleagues today
in recognizing and commending Jodie Minor
for his service to our country. We wish Jodie
and his family all the best as he continues to
serve in the United States Army.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE CAREER
AND RETIREMENT OF DEBORAH
R. MCBRIDE
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize the 50-year career and up-
coming retirement of Ms. Deborah ‘‘Debby’’ R.
McBride.
Debby was born in Washington, D.C. to Mir-
iam and Clarence McBride who moved to
Washington, D.C. from Evanston, Illinois short-
ly before Debby was born. Her father was a
tax attorney with the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) and both her father and mother worked
as teachers at Evanston Township High
School. Debby attended Walter Johnson High
School in Bethesda and then attended Bir-
mingham Southern College in Birmingham,
Alabama.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.041 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E347
March 25, 2019
Debby had two late sisters: Marcia, who
was 18 years older and developmentally dis-
abled and Gail, who was 10 years older but
very close with Debby.
At Birmingham Southern, Debby majored in
Elementary Education. Over spring break of
her senior year in college, she went to Capitol
Hill to look for a job. She met the personal
secretary for Bill Nichols, Mary Elva Rice and
was hired as a caseworker. She began work-
ing in 1969 and continued working as a case-
worker until Congressman Nichols died on De-
cember 13, 1988. Everyone in Nichols’ office
found other jobs, but Debby stayed with the
Third District of Alabama office. Congressman
Glen Browder replaced Nichols in a special
election on April 5, 1989 and she continued
working for the Third District. Debby handled
scheduling, office manager duties and contin-
ued with casework. Congressman Browder
stayed for the remainder of that term and two
other terms before running for the U.S. Sen-
ate. When Bob Riley was elected in 1996,
Debby stayed on to work with him also picking
up coordinating tours and flags. After three
terms, Riley successfully ran for Governor of
Alabama and I was elected in 2002. Debby
continued doing tours and flags, office man-
agement and casework.
During her time on the Hill, Debby was in-
volved for about 20 years with the Capitol Hill
Equestrian Society, which began while she
was working for Congressman Nichols. They
had meetings once a month and published a
monthly newsletter.
Debby received awards from the Social Se-
curity Administration (SSA) and the Disabled
American Veterans (DAV).
Debby has been with me since day one. If
you polled the Third District, she is probably
way more popular than me. She has institu-
tional knowledge that cannot be replaced and
we will miss her so much. Debby has a heart
of gold and has touched so many lives. The
Third District of Alabama won’t be the same
without her.
Madam Speaker, please join me in thanking
Debby for her unwavering service to the peo-
ple of Alabama.
f
COMMEMORATING THE LIFE OF
WALTER LOEBENBERG
HON. CHARLIE CRIST
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CRIST. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
ask my colleagues to join me in commemo-
rating the life of Walter Loebenberg, a commu-
nity leader, advocate for the less fortunate,
philanthropist and founder of the Florida Holo-
caust Museum.
As a young man, Mr. Loebenberg was
forced by the Nazis to flee his native country
of Germany for the United States. Mr.
Loebenberg returned a few years later, where
he honorably served the United States during
the Battle of the Bulge. His service was so
distinguished he was personally awarded a
Bronze Star by General Dwight D. Eisen-
hower.
After the war, Mr. Loebenberg returned to
the United States and moved to Florida where
he managed local hospitals, became a philan-
thropist, and fought to improve the lives of the
blind, the hungry, and those who could not
fight for themselves. He dedicated his life to
improving the world, one act at a time.
In 1992, Mr. Loebenberg founded a Holo-
caust Museum at the Jewish Community Cen-
ter of Pinellas County in Madeira Beach. This
rapidly expanded into the Florida Holocaust
Museum, opening in downtown St. Petersburg
to great fanfare in 1998.
Mr. Loebenberg understood the importance
of building a lasting tribute to the horrors and
lives lost in the Holocaust—so that history
might never repeat itself. His work, and his
museum, will stand the test of time, as a tes-
tament, and a warning to all of us, and all who
come after us. For the people of Pinellas
County, the state of Florida, the U.S. House of
Representatives, and a grateful nation, we
honor the life of Walter Loebenberg.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF EZEQUIEL
SANTIAGO
HON. JAMES A. HIMES
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, today, I join
the rest of Connecticut in mourning the loss of
State Rep. Ezequiel Santiago. Zeke was a
dedicated public servant and a dear friend
who was taken from his family, and his com-
munity, far too soon. Zeke was kind, wel-
coming, and a strong leader. He dedicated
himself to bettering the Bridgeport community
and those around him.
Raised in Bridgeport, Zeke entered politics
at a young age, volunteering on numerous
campaigns before running for office. He was a
tireless advocate for underrepresented and mi-
nority communities, bettering the lives of thou-
sands of his fellow citizens. His work was inte-
gral in securing funding for community organi-
zations that benefitted families and children
like the South End Community Center, the
Sheehan Center, and the YMCA. Without any
pomp or self-aggrandizement, he dedicated
his life to doing the hard, necessary work that
makes our government function.
Zeke’s loss is felt by everyone lucky enough
to know him and has created a hole that will
not soon be filled. A grateful state and nation
will strive to preserve his memory and carry
on his legacy.
f
HONORING CAPTAIN JOHN
FREDERICK WILSON
HON. JOHN R. CURTIS
OF UTAH
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Mr. CURTIS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Captain John Frederick Wilson, as he
celebrates his 100th birthday.
Born on April 2, 1919 and raised in Park
City, Utah, John Frederick Wilson, known af-
fectionately as ‘‘Jack’’, was one the few pilots
trained at BYU. On December 11, 1941, four
days after the Japanese surprise attack on
Pearl Harbor, he joined the Army Air Corps.
After learning to fly the four-engine B–24
Liberator bomber—an aircraft featured in the
Hollywood film ‘‘Unbroken’’—he was assigned
to the 90th bombing group in the Fifth Air
Force of the Army Air Corps. He was sent by
ship to Pearl Harbor, and then to New Guinea,
where he became pilot and captain of a ten-
member B–24 crew.
Jack and his crew were assigned to seek
out and destroy the Japanese airstrips in the
island Pacific. Given his prowess as a pilot,
Jack and his crew were soon reassigned to
reconnaissance missions to track the Japa-
nese fleet. His beloved B–24 was stripped of
all bombs, bomb bays, machine guns, and
other defensive weapons, so that the weight
could be replaced with extra gas tanks to sup-
port their long-distance reconnaissance mis-
sions. His biggest fear rapidly became en-
countering not enemy aircraft, but running out
of fuel. ‘‘My career as a B–24 pilot basically
consisted of long periods of boredom punc-
tuated with moments of terror.’’
Jack and his crew were dispatched to a
small airstrip on an island near Okinawa. They
were assigned to fly five days a week to the
North China sea, to track the Japanese fleet.
He there became as member of the famed
‘‘Jolly Rogers’’ and was issued a card that he
has carried in his wallet to this day: ‘‘Having
been assigned to the best damned heavy
bomb group, and having paid his dues, Cap-
tain Jack F. Wilson is hereby considered a
member in good standing of the Jolly Rogers.’’
Jack refused to participate in the demoniza-
tion of the Japanese that was popular during
and after the war. ‘‘There are good people ev-
erywhere,’’ he taught his children and grand-
children. At one time, a typhoon had threat-
ened the island airstrip and the Okinawan
people showed him a cave that he and his B–
24 crew sheltered in, thereby saving their
lives.
After the war, Jack used his flying skills to
help locate wildfires and his people skills to
create the National Interagency Fire Center in
Boise, Idaho, which bears his name.
Madam Speaker, I ask you and my col-
leagues to honor a native Utahn, the last re-
maining B–24 pilot from World War II, and ex-
tend warm greetings to Mr. Wilson on April 2,
2019, his 100th birthday. We commend him
for his life of service and valor in defense of
his country.
f
WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTH
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 25, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise today in support of Women’s History
Month, a time when we celebrate the women
who have fought for women’s equality and
their achievements to our nation. As we gather
to reflect on this important cause, it is impor-
tant to recognize that today there are a record
number of women in Congress, and I am
proud to serve alongside each of them.
Throughout my life, I have been inspired by
countless independent and accomplished
women. From the beginning of my life, my
mother Lillie Mae Johnson, a dedicated com-
munity volunteer, instilled in me a sense of
confidence and self-worth. I have been
blessed with the support of many such women
throughout my political career, such as Cheryl
Wattley, Mable White, Demetris Sampson, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.046 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E348 March 25, 2019
Veronica Frazier. Also, I am grateful for my
friendship with prominent Dallas women, such
as Judge Sarah T. Hughes, who first encour-
aged me to run for the Texas House of Rep-
resentatives in the 1970s, and Margaret
McDermott, who demonstrated limitless sup-
port of our society’s civic, cultural, and edu-
cational growth.
Women and girls have contributed signifi-
cantly in the science, technology, engineering,
and math fields. As Chairwoman of the House
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, I have made it my priority to encour-
age young girls and women to pursue careers
in STEM, because our country suffers greatly
if they are not given an opportunity to be in-
cluded.
Although we have made great strides
throughout this country’s history, we must con-
tinue to work to break the barriers that hinder
the advancement of women—like equal pay in
the workplace and preserving a woman’s right
to make her own healthcare decisions. There
is more work to be done in my home state of
Texas and throughout our nation. We will con-
tinue this work until we are able to provide
women with the economic security and oppor-
tunities they deserve.
I urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting Women’s History Month.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday,
March 26, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
MARCH 27
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of Defense
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Army.
SD–138
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing
and Urban Development, and Related
Agencies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Transportation.
SD–192
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
To hold hearings to examine Navy ship-
building programs in review of the De-
fense Authorization Request for fiscal
year 2020 and the Future Years Defense
Program.
SR–232A
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine Chairman’s
housing reform outline, part II.
SD–538
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine our blue
economy, focusing on successes and op-
portunities.
SD–G50
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Robert A. Destro, of Virginia,
to be Assistant Secretary for Democ-
racy, Human Rights, and Labor, Keith
Krach, of California, to be an Under
Secretary (Economic Growth, Energy,
and the Environment), to be United
States Alternate Governor of the Euro-
pean Bank for Reconstruction and De-
velopment, and to be United States Al-
ternate Governor of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment, and United States Alternate
Governor of the Inter-American Devel-
opment Bank, and David Stilwell, of
Hawaii, to be an Assistant Secretary
(East Asian and Pacific Affairs), all of
the Department of State.
SD–419
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Rules and Administration
To hold oversight hearings to examine
the Smithsonian Institution.
SR–301
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Energy and Water Devel-
opment
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Energy.
SD–138
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Strategic Forces
To hold hearings to examine military
space operations, policy, and programs.
SR–222
Committee on the Budget
Business meeting to markup the concur-
rent resolution on the budget for fiscal
year 2020.
SD–608
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Subcommittee on Water and Power
To hold hearings to examine the Colo-
rado River drought contingency plan.
SD–366
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
Business meeting to consider S. 771, to
amend section 21 of the Small Business
Act to require cyber certification for
small business development center
counselors, S. 772, to require an annual
report on the cybersecurity of the
Small Business Administration, and an
original bill to repeal the sunset for
collateral requirements for Small Busi-
ness Administration disaster loans.
SR–428A
3 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Library of Con-
gress and the Architect of the Capitol.
SD–124
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Subcommittee on Aviation and Space
To hold hearings to examine the state of
airline safety, focusing on Federal
oversight of commercial aviation.
SH–216
MARCH 28
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine Department
of Energy’s atomic energy defense pro-
grams in review of the Defense Author-
ization Request for fiscal year 2020 and
future years defense program.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of Home-
land Security
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Coast Guard.
SD–192
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Education.
SD–124
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to
be Secretary of the Interior.
SD–366
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine the Federal
response to the risks associated with
per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances
(PFAS).
SD–406
Committee on the Judiciary
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of Daniel P. Collins, and Ken-
neth Kiyul Lee, both of California,
both to be a United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit, James
Wesley Hendrix, and Mark T. Pittman,
both to be a United States District
Judge for the Northern District of
Texas, Sean D. Jordan, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Texas, Wing Chau, to be
United States Marshal for the District
of Rhode Island, and Ramona L.
Dohman, to be United States Marshal
for the District of Minnesota.
SD–226
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural De-
velopment, Food and Drug Administra-
tion, and Related Agencies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Food and Drug
Administration.
SD–138
Committee on the Budget
Business meeting to markup the concur-
rent resolution on the budget for fiscal
year 2020.
SH–216
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A25MR8.050 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E349
March 25, 2019
APRIL 2
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the Presi-
dent’s proposed budget request for fis-
cal year 2020 for the Department of En-
ergy.
SD–366
3 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Airland
To hold hearings to examine Army mod-
ernization in review of the Defense Au-
thorization Request for fiscal year 2020
and the future years defense program.
SR–232A
APRIL 3
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Indian Affairs
To hold hearings to examine enhancing
tribal self-governance and safety of In-
dian roads.
SD–628
POSTPONEMENTS
MARCH 27
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Financial Services and
General Government
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Commodity Fu-
tures Trading Commission and the Se-
curities and Exchange Commission.
SD–192
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:09 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M25MR8.000 E25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D286
Monday, March 25, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1919–S1947
Measures Introduced: Thirteen bills and three reso-
lutions were introduced, as follows: S. 853–865, S.J.
Res. 14, and S. Res. 120–121. Page S1939
Measures Reported:
S. 224, to provide for the conveyance of certain
property to the Tanana Tribal Council located in
Tanana, Alaska, and to the Bristol Bay Area Health
Corporation located in Dillingham, Alaska. (S. Rept.
No. 116–10)
S. 256, to amend the Native American Programs
Act of 1974 to provide flexibility and reauthoriza-
tion to ensure the survival and continuing vitality of
Native American languages. (S. Rept. No. 116–11)
S. 380, to increase access to agency guidance doc-
uments, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–12)
S. 394, to amend the Presidential Transition Act
of 1963 to improve the orderly transfer of the execu-
tive power during Presidential transitions, with
amendments. (S. Rept. No. 116–13)
S. 395, to require each agency, in providing notice
of a rule making, to include a link to a 100 word
plain language summary of the proposed rule. (S.
Rept. No. 116–14)
S. 406, to establish a Federal rotational cyber
workforce program for the Federal cyber workforce,
with an amendment. (S. Rept. No. 116–15)
H.R. 504, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to require the Department of Homeland Se-
curity to develop an engagement strategy with fu-
sion centers, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–16)
Special Report entitled ‘‘Activities of the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–17) Pages S1938–39
Measures Passed:
VA podiatrist grade and pay clarification: Sen-
ate passed S. 863, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to clarify the grade and pay of podiatrists of
the Department of Veterans Affairs. Pages S1942–43
Bade Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Bridget S. Bade,
of Arizona, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit. Pages S1919–31
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 77 yeas to 20 nays (Vote No. EX. 50), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S1931
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that all post-cloture time on the nomination
expire at 2:15 p.m., on Tuesday, March 26, 2019;
that following disposition of the nomination, Senate
resume consideration of the motion to proceed to
consideration of S.J. Res. 8, recognizing the duty of
the Federal Government to create a Green New
Deal, with the time until 4 p.m., equally divided
between the two Leaders, or their designees; and that
notwithstanding the provisions of Rule XXII, the
motions to invoke cloture with respect to S.J. Res.
8, and H.R. 268, making supplemental appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
ripen at 4 p.m., on Tuesday, March 26, 2019.
Page S1931
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday,
March 26, 2019. Page S1943
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
2 Air Force nominations in the rank of general.
1 Army nomination in the rank of general.
A routine list in the Foreign Service. Page S1947
Messages from the House: Pages S1934–35
Executive Communications: Pages S1935–38
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S1939–41
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S1941–42
Additional Statements: Pages S1933–34
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—50) Page S1931
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 7:18 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday,
March 26, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S1943.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 15:51 Jun 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\MARCH\D25MR9.REC D25MR9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D287
March 25, 2019
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 14 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1854–1867; and 3 resolutions, H.J.
Res. 53; and H. Res. 253–254 were introduced.
Pages H2795–96
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H2796–98
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 252, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 7) to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act
of 1938 to provide more effective remedies to vic-
tims of discrimination in the payment of wages on
the basis of sex, and for other purposes, and pro-
viding for consideration of the resolution (H. Res.
124) expressing opposition to banning service in the
Armed Forces by openly transgender individuals (H.
Rept. 116–19). Pages H2794–95
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Lowenthal to act as Speak-
er pro tempore for today. Page H2765
Recess: The House recessed at 12:17 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H2767
Recess: The House recessed at 2:02 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4:45 p.m. Page H2767
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Venezuela Arms Restriction Act: H.R. 920,
amended, to restrict the transfer of defense articles,
defense services, and crime control articles to any
element of the security forces of Venezuela that is
under the authority of a government of Venezuela
that is not recognized as the legitimate government
of Venezuela by the Government of the United
States; Pages H2767–69
Humanitarian Assistance to the Venezuelan
People Act of 2019: H.R. 854, amended, to provide
humanitarian assistance to the Venezuelan people,
including Venezuelan migrants and refugees in the
Americas; Pages H2769–71
Prioritizing the efforts of and enhance coordina-
tion among United States agencies to encourage
countries in Central and Eastern Europe to diver-
sify their energy sources and supply routes, in-
crease Europe’s energy security, and help the
United States reach its global energy security goals:
H.R. 1616, amended, to prioritize the efforts of and
enhance coordination among United States agencies
to encourage countries in Central and Eastern Europe
to diversify their energy sources and supply routes,
increase Europe’s energy security, and help the
United States reach its global energy security goals,
by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 391 yeas to 24 nays,
Roll No. 126; Pages H2771–73, H2780–81
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To
prioritize the efforts of and enhance coordination
among United States agencies to encourage countries
in Europe and Eurasia to diversify their energy
sources and supply routes, increase energy security in
the region, and help the United States reach its
global energy security goals, and for other pur-
poses.’’. Page H2781
Amending title XIX to extend protection for
Medicaid recipients of home and community-based
services against spousal impoverishment, establish
a State Medicaid option to provide coordinated care
to children with complex medical conditions
through health homes, prevent the misclassification
of drugs for purposes of the Medicaid drug rebate
program: H.R. 1839, amended, to amend title XIX
to extend protection for Medicaid recipients of home
and community-based services against spousal im-
poverishment, establish a State Medicaid option to
provide coordinated care to children with complex
medical conditions through health homes, prevent
the misclassification of drugs for purposes of the
Medicaid drug rebate program; and
Pages H2773–80, H2781
Russian-Venezuelan Threat Mitigation Act:
H.R. 1477, amended, to require a threat assessment
and strategy to counter Russian influence in Ven-
ezuela, an assessment of foreign acquisition of
CITGO assets in the United States. Pages H2781–84
Recess: The House recessed at 5:52 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H2780
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25MR9.REC D25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D288 March 25, 2019
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appears
on pages H2780–81. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 8:41 p.m.
Committee Meetings
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on House Administration: Full Committee
held a markup on H. Res. 245, providing for the ex-
penses of certain committees of the House of Rep-
resentatives in the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress;
and Committee Resolution 116–09, a Resolution to
Approve Franked Mail Allowances for Committees
for the 116th Congress. H. Res. 245 was ordered re-
ported, without amendment. Committee Resolution
116–09 was agreed to.
PAYCHECK FAIRNESS ACT; EXPRESSING
OPPOSITION TO BANNING SERVICE IN
THE ARMED FORCES BY OPENLY
TRANSGENDER INDIVIDUALS
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 7, the ‘‘Paycheck Fairness Act’’; and H. Res.
124, expressing opposition to banning service in the
Armed Forces by openly transgender individuals.
The Committee granted, by record vote of 9–4, a
rule providing for consideration of H.R. 7, the Pay-
check Fairness Act, and H. Res. 124, Expressing op-
position to banning service in the Armed Forces by
openly transgender individuals. Section 1 of the rule
provides for consideration of H.R. 7 under a struc-
tured rule. The rule provides one hour of general de-
bate equally divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor. The rule waives all points of order
against consideration of the bill. The rule makes in
order as original text for the purpose of amendment
an amendment in the nature of a substitute con-
sisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 116–8,
modified by the amendment printed in part A of the
Rules Committee report, and provides that it shall
be considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against that amendment in the nature of a
substitute. The rule makes in order only those fur-
ther amendments printed in part B of the Rules
Committee report. Each such amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the report, may
be offered only by a Member designated in the re-
port, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the question. The
rule waives all points of order against the amend-
ments printed in part B of the report. The rule pro-
vides one motion to recommit with or without in-
structions. Section 2 provides for consideration of H.
Res. 124, Expressing opposition to banning service
in the Armed Forces by openly transgender individ-
uals, under a closed rule. The rule provides one hour
of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Committee on
Armed Services. The rule waives all points of order
against consideration of the resolution. The rule pro-
vides that the resolution shall be considered as read
and shall not be subject to a demand for division of
the question. Testimony was heard from airman
Scott of Virginia, and Representatives Byrne,
DeLauro, and Levin of Michigan.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D267)
S. 49, to designate the outstation of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs in North Ogden, Utah, as
the Major Brent Taylor Vet Center Outstation.
Signed on March 21, 2019. (Public Law 116–10)
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
MARCH 26, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
the posture of the Department of the Army in review of
the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020
and the Future Years Defense Program, 9:30 a.m.,
SD–G50.
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, to hold hearings to
examine cybersecurity responsibilities of the defense in-
dustrial base, 2:30 p.m., SR–232A.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold hearings to examine Chairman’s housing reform out-
line, part I, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Manufacturing, Trade, and Consumer Pro-
tection, to hold hearings to examine small business per-
spectives on a federal data privacy framework, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–562.
Committee on Finance: business meeting to consider the
nominations of Andrew M. Saul, of New York, to be
Commissioner of Social Security, Gordon Hartogensis, of
Connecticut, to be Director of the Pension Benefit Guar-
anty Corporation, and Courtney Dunbar Jones, of Vir-
ginia, to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court,
Time to be announced, Room to be announced.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25MR9.REC D25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D289
March 25, 2019
Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on East
Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity Policy,
to hold hearings to examine United States policy toward
North Korea after the second summit, 9:30 a.m.,
SD–419.
Subcommittee on Europe and Regional Security Co-
operation, to hold hearings to examine 5 years after the
revolution, focusing on Ukraine’s progress and Russia’s
activities, 2:30 p.m., SD–419.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: to
hold hearings to examine implementing the 21st Century
Cures Act, focusing on making electronic health informa-
tion available to patients and providers, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
red flag laws, focusing on guidelines for state action, 10
a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the President’s proposed budget request for fiscal year
2020 and advanced appropriations requests for fiscal year
2021 for the Department of Veterans Affairs, 10 a.m.,
SR–418.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, budget
hearing on the National Science Foundation, 9:30 a.m.,
H–309 Capitol.
Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and
Related Agencies, budget hearing on the Department of
Energy, 10 a.m., 2362–B Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Gov-
ernment, budget hearing on the Office of Management
and Budget, 10 a.m., 2362–A Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Departments of Labor, Health
and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies,
budget hearing on the Department of Education, 10:15
a.m., 2359–Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies, budget hearing on the Department of the Inte-
rior, 10:30 a.m., 2359 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Defense, budget hearing on the Re-
serve Components, 11 a.m., H–140 Capitol.
Subcommittee on the Departments of Transportation,
and Housing and Urban Development, and Related
Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 11 a.m.,
2358–A Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, budget hearing on the U.S. Coast Guard, 1 p.m.,
2358–A Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 2 p.m.,
H–309 Capitol.
Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Af-
fairs, and Related Agencies, budget hearing on the Mili-
tary Installations and BRAC Overview, 2:15 p.m., 2359
Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies,
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 2:30 p.m., 2362–A Ray-
burn.
Subcommittee on Defense, oversight hearing on the
U.S. Indo-Pacific Command, 3 p.m., H–140 Capitol.
This hearing will be closed.
Committee on Armed Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Fiscal Year 2020 National Defense Author-
ization Budget Request from the Department of De-
fense’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces,
hearing entitled ‘‘Department of the Navy Fiscal Year
2020 Budget Request for Seapower and Projection
Forces’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, Full Committee, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Department of Health and Human Services FY
2020 Budget’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Protecting Workers’ Right to Organize: The Need
for Labor Law Reform’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Human Services,
hearing entitled ‘‘Strengthening Prevention and Treat-
ment of Child Abuse and Neglect’’, 2 p.m., 2175 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology, markup on H.R. 1644,
the ‘‘Save the Internet Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Administration of Disaster Recovery Funds
in the Wake of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria’’, 10
a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Full Committee, markup on H.R. 389, the
‘‘Kleptocracy Asset Recovery Rewards Act’’; H.R. 1500,
the ‘‘Consumers First Act’’; H.R. 1595, the ‘‘Secure and
Fair Enforcement Banking Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1815, the
‘‘SEC Disclosure Effectiveness Testing Act’’; and legisla-
tion on Ending Homelessness Act of 2019, 2 p.m., 2128
Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on the
Western Hemisphere, Civilian Security, and Trade, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Understanding Odebrecht: Lessons for Com-
bating Corruption in the Americas’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Ray-
burn.
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing
entitled ‘‘Proposed Small Arms Transfers: Big Implica-
tions for U.S. Foreign Policy’’, 10 a.m., 2200 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global
Human Rights, and International Organizations, hearing
entitled ‘‘Looking Forward: U.S.—Africa Relations’’, 2
p.m., 2200 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, Energy, and the En-
vironment, hearing entitled ‘‘The Historic American Alli-
ance with Europe’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Bor-
der Security, Facilitation, and Operations, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘The Department of Homeland Security’s Family
Separation Policy: Perspectives from the Border’’, 10 a.m.,
310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, markup on
H. Res. 243, of inquiry requesting the President and di-
recting the Attorney General to transmit, respectively,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25MR9.REC D25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D290 March 25, 2019
certain documents to the House of Representatives relat-
ing to the actions of former Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion Acting Director Andrew McCabe, 10 a.m., 2141
Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Water,
Oceans, and Wildlife, hearing on H.R. 1326, the ‘‘AC-
CESS Act’’; H.R. 877, the ‘‘Modernizing the Pittman-
Robertson Fund for Tomorrow’s Needs Act’’; H.R. 1809,
to amend the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration
Act and the Dingell-Johnson Federal Aid in Sport Fish
Restoration Act, to provide parity for United States terri-
tories and the District of Columbia, to make technical
corrections to such Acts and related laws, and for other
purposes; H.R. 737, the ‘‘Shark Fin Sales Elimination Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 1305, the ‘‘Albatross and Petrel Con-
servation Act’’; H.R. 1380, the ‘‘Big Cat Public Safety
Act’’; and H.R. 1568, the ‘‘SAVE Right Whales Act’’, 10
a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘The Need to Protect the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge Coastal Plain’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 745, the ‘‘Executive Branch Comprehen-
sive Ethics Enforcement Act’’; H.R. 964, the ‘‘Transition
Team Ethics Improvement Act’’; H.R. 1076, the ‘‘Fair
Chance Act’’; H.R. 1496, the ‘‘Presidential Allowance
Modernization Act’’; H.R. 1847, the ‘‘Inspector General
Protection Act’’; H.R.540, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 770 Ayrault Road
in Fairport, New York, as the ‘‘Louise and Bob Slaughter
Post Office’’; H.R. 1198, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 404 South Boulder
Highway in Henderson, Nevada, as the ‘‘Henderson Vet-
erans Memorial Post Office Building’’; H.R.1449, to des-
ignate the facility of the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 3033 203rd Street in Olympia Fields, Illinois, as
the ‘‘Captain Robert L. Martin Post Office’’; and S. 725,
a bill to change the address of the postal facility des-
ignated in honor of Captain Humayun Khan, 10 a.m.,
2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Economic and Consumer Policy,
hearing entitled ‘‘Improving Data Security at Consumer
Reporting Agencies’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Research and Technology; and Subcommittee on En-
ergy, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Revitalizing American Lead-
ership in Advanced Manufacturing’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Con-
tracting and Infrastructure, hearing entitled ‘‘Cleared for
Take-off? Implementation of the Small Business Runway
Extension Act’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Cost of Doing Nothing:
Why Investment in our Nation’s Airports Matters’’, 10
a.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Trade,
hearing entitled ‘‘Trade and Labor: Creating and Enforc-
ing Rules to Benefit American Workers’’, 10 a.m., 1100
Longworth.
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of March 26 through March 29, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the nomination of Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit,
post cloture, and vote on confirmation of the nomi-
nation at 2:15 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of
Bridget S. Bade, Senate will resume consideration of
the motion to proceed to consideration of S.J. Res.
8, Green New Deal, and vote on the motion to in-
voke cloture on the motion to proceed to consider-
ation of the joint resolution at 4 p.m.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Appropriations: March 27, Subcommittee
on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and
Related Agencies, to hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for
the Department of Transportation, 10 a.m., SD–192.
March 27, Subcommittee on Department of Defense, to
hold hearings to examine proposed budget estimates and
justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Army, 10 a.m.,
SD–138.
March 27, Subcommittee on Energy and Water Devel-
opment, to hold hearings to examine proposed budget es-
timates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the De-
partment of Energy, 2:30 p.m., SD–138.
March 27, Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, to
hold hearings to examine proposed budget estimates and
justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Library of Con-
gress and the Architect of the Capitol, 3 p.m., SD–124.
March 28, Subcommittee on Department of Homeland
Security, to hold hearings to examine proposed budget es-
timates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Coast
Guard, 10 a.m., SD–192.
March 28, Subcommittee on Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related
Agencies, to hold hearings to examine proposed budget
estimates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the De-
partment of Education, 10 a.m., SD–124.
March 28, Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Devel-
opment, Food and Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies, to hold hearings to examine proposed budget
estimates and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the
Food and Drug Administration, 10:30 a.m., SD–138.
Committee on Armed Services: March 26, to hold hearings
to examine the posture of the Department of the Army
in review of the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal
year 2020 and the Future Years Defense Program, 9:30
a.m., SD–G50.
March 26, Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, to hold
hearings to examine cybersecurity responsibilities of the
defense industrial base, 2:30 p.m., SR–232A.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25MR9.REC D25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D291
March 25, 2019
March 27, Subcommittee on SeaPower, to hold hear-
ings to examine Navy shipbuilding programs in review of
the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020
and the Future Years Defense Program, 10 a.m.,
SR–232A.
March 27, Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, to hold
hearings to examine military space operations, policy, and
programs, 2:30 p.m., SR–222.
March 28, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine Department of Energy’s atomic energy defense pro-
grams in review of the Defense Authorization Request for
fiscal year 2020 and future years defense program, 9:30
a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
March 26, to hold hearings to examine Chairman’s hous-
ing reform outline, part I, 10 a.m., SD–538.
March 27, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine Chairman’s housing reform outline, part II, 10 a.m.,
SD–538.
Committee on the Budget: March 27, business meeting to
markup the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal
year 2020, 2:30 p.m., SD–608.
March 28, Full Committee, business meeting to mark-
up the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year
2020, 10:30 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: March
26, Subcommittee on Manufacturing, Trade, and Con-
sumer Protection, to hold hearings to examine small busi-
ness perspectives on a federal data privacy framework,
2:30 p.m., SD–562.
March 27, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine our blue economy, focusing on successes and opportu-
nities, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
March 27, Subcommittee on Aviation and Space, to
hold hearings to examine the state of airline safety, focus-
ing on Federal oversight of commercial aviation, 3 p.m.,
SH–216.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: March 27,
Subcommittee on Water and Power, to hold hearings to
examine the Colorado River drought contingency plan,
2:30 p.m., SD–366.
March 28, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nomination of David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to
be Secretary of the Interior, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: March 28,
to hold hearings to examine the Federal response to the
risks associated with per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances
(PFAS), 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Finance: March 26, business meeting to
consider the nominations of Andrew M. Saul, of New
York, to be Commissioner of Social Security, Gordon
Hartogensis, of Connecticut, to be Director of the Pen-
sion Benefit Guaranty Corporation, and Courtney Dunbar
Jones, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Tax
Court, Time to be announced, Room to be announced.
Committee on Foreign Relations: March 26, Subcommittee
on East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity
Policy, to hold hearings to examine United States policy
toward North Korea after the second summit, 9:30 a.m.,
SD–419.
March 26, Subcommittee on Europe and Regional Se-
curity Cooperation, to hold hearings to examine 5 years
after the revolution, focusing on Ukraine’s progress and
Russia’s activities, 2:30 p.m., SD–419.
March 27, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of Robert A. Destro, of Virginia, to
be Assistant Secretary for Democracy, Human Rights, and
Labor, Keith Krach, of California, to be an Under Sec-
retary (Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment),
to be United States Alternate Governor of the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and to be
United States Alternate Governor of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and United
States Alternate Governor of the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank, and David Stilwell, of Hawaii, to be an As-
sistant Secretary (East Asian and Pacific Affairs), all of the
Department of State, 10 a.m., SD–419.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
March 26, to hold hearings to examine implementing the
21st Century Cures Act, focusing on making electronic
health information available to patients and providers, 10
a.m., SD–430.
Committee on the Judiciary: March 26, to hold hearings
to examine red flag laws, focusing on guidelines for state
action, 10 a.m., SD–226.
March 28, Full Committee, business meeting to con-
sider the nominations of Daniel P. Collins, and Kenneth
Kiyul Lee, both of California, both to be a United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, James Wesley
Hendrix, and Mark T. Pittman, both to be a United
States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas,
Sean D. Jordan, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Texas, Wing Chau, to be United
States Marshal for the District of Rhode Island, and Ra-
mona L. Dohman, to be United States Marshal for the
District of Minnesota, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Rules and Administration: March 27, to
hold oversight hearings to examine the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 10:30 a.m., SR–301.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: March
27, business meeting to consider S. 771, to amend sec-
tion 21 of the Small Business Act to require cyber certifi-
cation for small business development center counselors,
S. 772, to require an annual report on the cybersecurity
of the Small Business Administration, and an original bill
to repeal the sunset for collateral requirements for Small
Business Administration disaster loans, 2:30 p.m.,
SR–428A.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: March 26, to hold hear-
ings to examine the President’s proposed budget request
for fiscal year 2020 and advanced appropriations requests
for fiscal year 2021 for the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, 10 a.m., SR–418.
House Committees
Committee on Appropriations, March 27, Subcommittee
on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs,
budget hearing on the Department of State, 9:30 a.m.,
2359 Rayburn.
March 27, Subcommittee on Energy and Water Devel-
opment, and Related Agencies, budget hearing on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25MR9.REC D25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D292 March 25, 2019
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclama-
tion, 9:45 a.m., 2362–A Rayburn.
March 27, Subcommittee on Financial Services and
General Government, hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 10
a.m., 2362–B Rayburn.
March 27, Subcommittee on the Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, Education, and Related
Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 10 a.m.,
2358–C Rayburn.
March 27, Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies, budget hearing on the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 10:15
a.m., H–309 Capitol.
March 27, Subcommittee on the Department of Home-
land Security, budget hearing on the U.S. Customs and
Border Protection, 10:30 a.m., 2008 Rayburn.
March 27, Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Devel-
opment, Food and Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘USDA’s Proposed Relocation
of the Economic Research Service and the National Insti-
tute of Food and Agriculture’’, 11 a.m., 2358–A Ray-
burn.
March 27, Subcommittee on Defense, budget hearing
on the National Security Agency, U.S. Cyber Command,
11 a.m., H–405 Capitol.
March 27, Subcommittee on Interior, Environment,
and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 1
p.m., 2008 Rayburn.
March 27, Subcommittee on Military Construction,
Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, budget hearing
on the Department of Veterans Affairs, 1 p.m., 2359
Rayburn.
March 27, Subcommittee on Financial Services and
General Government, hearing entitled ‘‘Public Witness
Hearing’’, 1:30 p.m., 2362–B Rayburn.
March 27, Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies, budget hearing on the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2:30
p.m., 2358–C Rayburn.
March 27, Subcommittee on Defense, budget hearing
on the National Reconnaissance Office, 3 p.m., H–405
Capitol. This hearing will be closed.
March 28, Subcommittee on Interior, Environment,
and Related Agencies, budget hearing on the U.S. Forest
Service, 10 a.m., 2008 Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, March 27, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘National Security Challenges and U.S.
Military Activities in the Indo-Pacific’’, 10 a.m., 2118
Rayburn.
March 27, Subcommittee on Military Personnel, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Reserve Component Duty Status Reform’’,
4 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
March 28, Subcommittee on Intelligence and Emerg-
ing Threats and Capabilities, hearing entitled ‘‘Fiscal
Year 2020 Budget Request for Department of Defense
Science and Technology Programs: Maintaining a Robust
Ecosystem for our Technological Edge’’, 10 a.m., 2212
Rayburn.
March 28, Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, hearing
entitled ‘‘FY20 Priorities for Department of Defense Nu-
clear Activities’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, March 27, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Department of Defense’s Fiscal Year
2020 Budget Request’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Education and Labor, March 27, Sub-
committee on Higher Education and Workforce Invest-
ment, hearing entitled ‘‘Innovations in Expanding Reg-
istered Apprenticeship Programs’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, March 27, Sub-
committee on Health, markup on H.R. 1781, the ‘‘Pay-
ment Commission Data Act of 2019’’; H.R. 938, the
‘‘BLOCKING Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1520, the ‘‘Purple
Book Continuity Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1503, the ‘‘Orange
Book Transparency Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1499, the ‘‘Pro-
tecting Consumer Access to Generic Drugs Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 965, the ‘‘CREATES Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1385, the
‘‘SAVE Act’’; H.R. 1386, the ‘‘ENROLL Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 1425, the ‘‘State Health Care Premium Reduction
Act’’; H.R. 987, the ‘‘MORE Health Education Act’’;
H.R. 986, the ‘‘Protecting Americans with Preexisting
Conditions Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 1010, a bill to pro-
vide that the rule entitled ‘‘Short-Term, Limited Dura-
tion Insurance’’ shall have no force or effect, 10 a.m.,
2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, March 27, Subcommittee
on Asia, the Pacific, and Nonproliferation, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Making Sanctions Effective: The Case of North
Korea’’, 9:30 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
March 27, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The State
Department’s Foreign Policy Strategy and FY20 Budget
Request’’, 1 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on the Judiciary, March 27, Subcommittee on
Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet, hearing
entitled ‘‘Lost Einsteins: Lack of Diversity in Patent
Inventorship and the Impact on America’s Innovation
Economy’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
March 27, Subcommittee on Constitution, Civil
Rights, and Civil Liberties, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining
the Constitutional Role of the Pardon Power’’, 2 p.m.,
2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, March 27, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Department of
the Interior’s Spending Priorities and the President’s Fis-
cal Year 2020 Budget Proposal’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Long-
worth.
March 28, Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and
Wildlife, hearing entitled ‘‘The Colorado River Drought
Contingency Plan’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
March 28, Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Re-
sources, hearing entitled ‘‘Abandoned Mine Land Rec-
lamation: Innovative Approaches and Economic Develop-
ment Opportunities’’, 10 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, March 28, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 10 a.m., 2154
Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, March 27,
Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight; and Sub-
committee on Environment, joint hearing entitled ‘‘EPA’s
IRIS Program: Reviewing its Progress and Roadblocks
Ahead’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25MR9.REC D25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D293
March 25, 2019
March 27, Subcommittee on Energy, markup on H.R.
34, the ‘‘Energy and Water Research Integration Act of
2019’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, March 27, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Unlocking Small Business Retirement
Security’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, March 27,
Full Committee, markup on H.R. 1108, the ‘‘Aviation
Funding Stability Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1775, to establish
a task force on NOTAM improvements, and for other
purposes; H.R. 367, the ‘‘Pay Our Coast Guard Parity
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1322, to require a report on the ef-
fects of Climate Change on the Coast Guard; H.R. 1306,
the ‘‘Federal Disaster Assistance Coordination Act’’; H.R.
1307, the ‘‘Post-Disaster Assistance Online Account-
ability Act’’; H.R. 1311, to amend the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to ensure
that unmet needs after a major disaster are met; and H.R.
1331, the ‘‘Local Water Protection Act’’, 10 a.m.,
HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, March 27, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The 2017 Tax Law and Who It
Left Behind’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, March 28, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Putin’s Playbook: The
Kremlin’s Use of Oligarchs, Money and Intelligence in
2016 and Beyond’’, 9 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, March
27, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Congressional Re-
forms of the Past and Their Effect on Today’s Congress’’,
2 p.m., 1310 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D25MR9.REC D25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D294 March 25, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, March 26
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit,
post cloture, and vote on confirmation of the nomination
at 2:15 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Bridget S.
Bade, Senate will resume consideration of the motion to
proceed to consideration of S.J. Res. 8, Green New Deal,
and vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the motion
to proceed to consideration of the joint resolution at 4
p.m.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, March 26
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of the Veto Mes-
sage on H.J. Res. 46—Relating to a national emergency
declared by the President on February 15, 2019. Consid-
eration of measures under suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Aderholt, Robert B., Ala., E346
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E343
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E338
Cartwright, Matt, Pa., E336, E343
Cloud, Michael, Tex., E335, E337, E340, E341, E342,
E345, E346
Crist, Charlie, Fla., E347
Cuellar, Henry, Tex., E336, E338, E341, E343
Curtis, John R., Utah, E347
Hern, Kevin, Okla., E345
Higgins, Brian, N.Y., E344
Himes, James A., Conn., E347
Horsford, Steven, Nev., E341, E346
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E342
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E347
Kelly, Trent, Miss., E337
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E338
Maloney, Carolyn B., N.Y., E335, E337, E340, E343
McCarthy, Kevin, Calif., E338
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E346
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E335, E336, E336, E337, E338,
E338, E339, E339, E340, E341
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E346
Rutherford, John H., Fla., E339
Shalala, Donna E., Fla., E342
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E339
Thompson, Bennie G., Miss., E336, E341, E344, E345
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E335, E337, E339, E342, E344,
E345
Veasey, Marc A., Tex., E342
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E344
Wexton, Jennifer, Va., E340
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Mar 26, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D25MR9.REC D25MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
