Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H12213
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2019 No. 206
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
God of the Ages, we give You thanks
for giving us another day.
We continue to ask You to be with us
here in the people’s House. Political
energy is high, yet we ask that You
bless the Members with a surfeit of
wisdom and discernment as they con-
tinue toward the end of the first ses-
sion.
May the work to be completed result
in blessings for our Nation in the fund-
ing of the government for the next
year.
Finally, please send a healing spirit
upon this assembly, upon our Nation.
Much harsh language and accusation
have been heard in the Chamber; help
us all to be ambassadors of peace and
reconciliation, so that all Americans
might have hope in a united future.
May all that is done be for Your
greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. Pursuant the section
7(a) of House Resolution 758, the Jour-
nal of the last day’s proceedings is ap-
proved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentle-
woman from California (Mrs. TORRES)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mrs. TORRES of California led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 5377, RESTORING TAX FAIR-
NESS FOR STATES AND LOCAL-
ITIES ACT
Mrs. TORRES of California, from the
Committee on Rules, submitted a priv-
ileged report (Rept. No. 116–357) on the
resolution (H. Res. 772) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 5377) to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to modify the limitation on deduc-
tion of State and local taxes, and for
other purposes, which was referred to
the House Calendar and ordered to be
printed.
f
ELECTING CERTAIN MEMBERS TO
A CERTAIN STANDING COM-
MITTEE OF THE HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Democratic Caucus, I
offer a privileged resolution and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 773
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and are hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing standing committee of the House of
Representatives:
COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND REFORM: Ms.
Porter and Ms. Haaland.
Mr. JEFFRIES (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that the resolution be considered as
read and printed in the RECORD.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CUELLAR). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from New
York?
There was no objection.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
COMMUNICATION FROM CHAIR OF
COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND
REFORM
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Chair of the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform:
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND REFORM,
Washington, DC, December 17, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI: I write to notify
you and the House of Representatives of the
initiation by the Committee on Oversight
and Reform of judicial proceedings pursuant
to H. Res. 497 and H. Res. 430. The Committee
has initiated the following civil action:
Committee on Oversight and Reform, U.S.
House of Representatives v. Barr, No. 1: 19–
cv–03557, filed in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Columbia on November 26,
2019.
Sincerely,
CAROLYN B. MALONEY,
Chairwoman.
f
CONTINUATION OF NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
SERIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSE
AND CORRUPTION—MESSAGE
FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–
87)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.000 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12214 December 19, 2019
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13818 of December 20, 2017, is to
continue in effect beyond December 20,
2019.
The prevalence and severity of
human rights abuse and corruption
that have their source, in whole or in
substantial part, outside the United
States, continue to threaten the sta-
bility of international political and
economic systems. Human rights abuse
and corruption undermine the values
that form an essential foundation of
stable, secure, and functioning soci-
eties; have devastating impacts on in-
dividuals; weaken democratic institu-
tions; degrade the rule of law; perpet-
uate violent conflicts; facilitate the ac-
tivities of dangerous persons; under-
mine economic markets; and continue
to pose an unusual and extraordinary
threat to the national security, foreign
policy, and economy of the United
States. Therefore, I have determined
that it is necessary to continue the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13818 with respect to serious
human rights abuse and corruption.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, December 18, 2019.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 5377, RESTORING TAX
FAIRNESS FOR STATES AND LO-
CALITIES ACT
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, by direction of the Com-
mittee on Rules, I call up House Reso-
lution 772 and ask for its immediate
consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 772
Resolved, That upon adoption of this reso-
lution it shall be in order to consider in the
House the bill (H.R. 5377) to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the limi-
tation on deduction of State and local taxes,
and for other purposes. All points of order
against consideration of the bill are waived.
The amendment in the nature of a substitute
recommended by the Committee on Ways
and Means now printed in the bill shall be
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended,
shall be considered as read. All points of
order against provisions in the bill, as
amended, are waived. The previous question
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as
amended, and on any further amendment
thereto, to final passage without intervening
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally
divided and controlled by the chair and rank-
ing minority member of the Committee on
Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to re-
commit with or without instructions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from California is recognized
for 1 hour.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, for the purpose of debate
only, I yield the customary 30 minutes
to the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr.
COLE), pending which I yield myself
such time as I may consume. During
consideration of this resolution, all
time yielded is for the purpose of de-
bate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members be given 5 legislative days
to revise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, on Wednesday, the Rules
Committee met and reported a rule,
House Resolution 772, providing for
consideration of H.R. 5377, the Restor-
ing Tax Fairness for States and Local-
ities Act, under a closed rule.
The rule provides 1 hour of debate,
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and the ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Ways and
Means.
Mr. Speaker, SALT has been in law
since the 16th Amendment was passed
in 1913 with few minor adjustments,
that is, until 2017, when Republicans
passed the tax scam law.
In 2017, the Republicans gave away
almost $2 trillion in tax cuts to cor-
porations and the wealthy. They paid
for this tax scam on the backs of hard-
working American families. Thirty-six
million middle-class families saw their
taxes increase.
The average American deducted
$12,500 in State and local taxes, or
SALT, from their Federal taxes before
2017. However, the Republican tax bill
capped SALT deductions at $10,000,
therefore, not fully covering what the
average American deducts in State and
local taxes. This cap means that Amer-
icans are paying taxes twice on the
same dollar earned.
Our tax system is based on the prin-
ciple of federalism and acknowledges
that the Federal Government should
not do everything.
State and local taxes provide funds
for critical infrastructure and services,
such as ensuring quality schools for
our kids, fixing our roads, and sup-
porting our local law enforcement.
Local governments know how to
meet the unique needs of their commu-
nities, and the implementation of a
SALT deduction cap threatens the abil-
ity of our local governments to provide
these critical services.
The SALT deduction is not a Demo-
cratic or Republican issue. Taxpayers
across the country in both red and blue
States benefit from the deduction.
Midwestern States like Iowa, Min-
nesota, and Wisconsin are known for
their State and local tax contributions.
In fact, Wisconsin ranks among the top
five States in the country, higher than
California, for the average proportion
of a resident’s income tax that goes to-
ward State and local taxes.
Whether from California, Wisconsin,
or New Jersey, getting rid of the SALT
cap will benefit Americans across the
country.
Mr. Speaker, that is why I am sup-
porting H.R. 5377, the Restoring Tax
Fairness for States and Localities Act.
This legislation will raise the SALT
cap for 2019 to $20,000 for married cou-
ples.
Under the Republican tax bill, the
SALT cap is set at $10,000 for a house-
hold regardless if that household con-
sists of an individual or two people fil-
ing jointly.
Mr. Speaker, I don’t think taxpayers
should be punished for being married.
This legislation will completely re-
peal the SALT cap for 2020 and 2021, en-
suring that Americans are not taxed
double on their hard-earned money.
Included in H.R. 5377 are investments
in our teachers and law enforcement
officers. I have heard from southern
Californian teachers who are working
two or three jobs to make ends meet,
but they still buy supplies for their
students: notebooks, chalk, pencils,
markers, whatever they need.
Across the country, nearly all teach-
ers report buying school supplies for
their students with their own money,
spending almost $500 on average.
Currently, the tax credit for out-of-
pocket expenses for educators is $250.
This legislation will double the tax
credit to $500, matching what is actu-
ally spent, what teachers spend for
their students.
It also creates a new tax deduction
for law enforcement officers, fire-
fighters, paramedics, and EMTs related
to expenses for uniforms and for tui-
tion fees for professional development
training. As a former 911 dispatcher, I
can testify to the importance of having
well-trained first responders.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 5377 is about re-
storing fair tax policies for the middle
class that have been suffering under
the Republican tax bill, and I am proud
to stand here in support of this legisla-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank my good friend, the gentle-
woman from California (Mrs. TORRES)
for yielding me the customary 30 min-
utes, and I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this is our third rule de-
bate in what has turned out to be a
pretty eventful and memorable week.
Unfortunately, today’s debate is on a
deeply partisan and misguided tax bill.
b 0915
H.R. 5377 would temporarily remove
the cap on the deduction for State and
local income taxes, property taxes, and
sales taxes. The bill also pays for this
temporary tax break for a few by per-
manently increasing the top marginal
tax rate.
What is worse, Mr. Speaker, the per-
manent tax increase isn’t limited to in-
dividuals but applies to small busi-
nesses, as well.
Two years ago, Congress passed and
President Trump signed into law the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. This monu-
mental legislation not only reformed
the corporate tax code to make Amer-
ican business more competitive and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.004 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12215
December 19, 2019
simplified the personal tax code, but it
also ensured that the vast majority of
Americans are getting to keep more of
their hard-earned money than they did
2 years ago. Between lower tax rates,
the expanded standard deduction, the
child tax credit, and changes to the al-
ternative minimum tax, the benefit of
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act are numer-
ous and reach far and wide across the
Nation.
Today, the majority is seeking to
undo some of that progress and is seek-
ing to push a temporary tax break that
will only benefit a few wealthy individ-
uals in a few States. The State and
local tax deduction, or SALT deduc-
tion, as it is called, primarily benefits
only a select group of individuals, gen-
erally wealthy people in the top 20 per-
cent of income, in a few high-tax
States, who own expensive homes. H.R.
5377 would allow these individuals to
temporarily claim an unlimited SALT
deduction for only the years 2020 and
2021.
Mr. Speaker, the benefits of this bill
will overwhelmingly go to those who
are already wealthy. According to the
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities,
the top 1 percent of households would
receive 56 percent of the benefit of re-
pealing the SALT deduction cap. Let
me repeat that: The top 1 percent get
56 percent of the benefits of repealing
the SALT deduction cap. The top 5 per-
cent of households will receive over 80
percent of the benefit. Again, let me re-
peat that: The top 5 percent of income
earners in the country are going to get
80 percent of the benefit of this bill.
Amazing. The bottom 80 percent of all
households would receive precisely 4
percent of the benefit. Amazing.
What is worse, in the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act, we have already acted to off-
set the reduced SALT deduction by
doubling the standard deduction. In the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we doubled the
standard deduction from $12,000 to
$24,000 for married couples, which off-
set an increase resulting from lowering
the SALT deduction cap for a vast ma-
jority of taxpayers.
Before TCJA, 30 percent of all tax-
payers itemized deductions and could
potentially benefit from a SALT deduc-
tion. Today, just under 90 percent of all
taxpayers take the standard deduction.
This has made tax filing significantly
easier. More importantly, for our pur-
poses, it has meant that the vast ma-
jority of taxpayers who potentially
could have benefited from a SALT de-
duction are already benefiting from the
increased standard deduction.
In the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the
drafters of the bill made sure that the
benefits were spread across all tax-
payers. Between doubling the standard
deduction, doubling the child tax credit
and making it partially refundable, and
simplifying the tax code, there is hard-
ly a taxpayer in America who did not
see some benefit from the bill.
Here, unlike the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act, the benefits of H.R. 5377 will go
only to a select group of people in a few
key States, and it will overwhelmingly
go to people who are already wealthy—
already wealthy. Though the majority
likes to claim that Republicans only
want to cut taxes for the rich, it is
ironic that the majority is now pushing
a special tax break that literally bene-
fits only the rich.
But the bill is worse than that, Mr.
Speaker. To pay for this short-term tax
break for a few, the bill also increases
the top marginal tax rate for all tax-
payers on a permanent basis. That is
correct. The bill imposes a permanent
tax hike on all Americans to give a
short-term tax break for a wealthy few.
That type of tax change simply
doesn’t make any sense, Mr. Speaker.
The tax code does need further reforms,
no doubt about it. But those reforms
should be those that increase the com-
petitiveness of American business, sim-
plify the tax code further to make it
more comprehensible to taxpayers, and
ensure further fairness for everyone.
Giving a few select people in a few
States a short-term and complicated
tax break simply doesn’t meet these
goals.
Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to the
rule, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, school districts across
America are struggling to recruit and
hire teachers. In the Fourth District of
Oklahoma, for example, there are 8,680
teachers who currently receive the edu-
cation expense deduction. This legisla-
tion doubles the above-the-line deduc-
tion for educators’ out-of-pocket ex-
penses to $500.
Mr. Speaker, I can imagine that
these teachers would greatly appre-
ciate being able to claim up to $500 out-
of-pocket for the school supplies that
they buy for their students.
I want to tell a story from Debra
Deskin. Debra is a teacher in Okla-
homa, and she has been a faithful pub-
lic servant for 15 years. She teaches
gifted students. She says: ‘‘I literally
had to choose whether to purchase
items for my classroom and students or
pay bills. Honestly, the bills get put on
the back burner.’’
These are the type of public servants
who this bill is tasked to support to en-
sure that they are not having to choose
between paying their bills or buying
supplies for their students.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. PAS-
CRELL).
Mr. PASCRELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in strong support of the rule reported
by the Committee on Rules providing
for the consideration of H.R. 5377, the
Restoring Tax Fairness for States and
Localities Act. I was an original co-
sponsor of this legislation.
Last Congress, the middle class was
targeted by the former House majority.
The tax scam law of 2017 remains one
of the most destructive bills we have
ever seen here because it specifically
went after the middle class. The prin-
cipal way it did this was by capping the
State and local tax, or SALT, deduc-
tion, one of the oldest deductions on
the books. It existed before the tax
code, and there was a reason for it.
This unfair cap hit New Jersey like
an anvil dropped from five stories up.
The average value of all New Jersey
families’ deductions was $19,162 in 2017,
a figure double the $10,000 cap.
But this is not just about New Jer-
sey. The SALT deduction directly ben-
efited more than 46.5 million house-
holds, which represents over 100 mil-
lion Americans. Almost 40 percent of
taxpayers earning between $50,000 and
$75,000 claimed the SALT deduction,
and over 70 percent of taxpayers mak-
ing $100,000 to $200,000 used it. Imagine
that, that spread over millions of
households from coast to coast.
These are families in New Jersey, Il-
linois, New York, Minnesota, Ken-
tucky, and Texas. They are not all blue
States. That is where you made your
mistake. You tried to nail us, and you
got everybody else paying through the
nose to fund a tax cut, which you know
went to Big Business and executives,
which didn’t invest in the government.
It didn’t invest in this government bill.
It didn’t invest in industry. It invested
in the pockets of shareholders. We
know. Look at the data.
When I hold this up at my meetings,
your home is worth less than it should
be. That has happened all over the
country. That is what it has done.
Get rid of all the deductions; see
what will happen to charity donations.
Nor is this just a blue-State issue,
like some bad faith critics claim. In
2017, the average SALT deduction ex-
ceeded $10,000 in 25 States and the Dis-
trict of Columbia.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield an additional 30 sec-
onds to the gentleman from New Jer-
sey.
Mr. PASCRELL. At least 10 are so-
called red States where the average de-
duction exceeded $9,000, including
South Carolina, Idaho, Arkansas, and
West Virginia.
SALT benefits flow to all commu-
nities, like my hometown of Paterson.
SALT relief empowers communities to
make investments in broadly shared
services.
I want to emphasize, this package is
fully paid for, so don’t give me this ma-
larkey that you are concerned about
the poor people, all of a sudden. It is
like the Sun coming out in the morn-
ing, all of a sudden, and we are con-
cerned about the rich. It doesn’t work
out that way. It doesn’t work out that
way.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a Statement of Administration Policy
on this particular bill, noting that the
President’s advisers would advise him
to veto this bill, were it to pass.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.006 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12216 December 19, 2019
STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
H.R. 5377—RESTORING TAX FAIRNESS FOR
STATES AND LOCALITIES ACT—REP. SUOZZI,
D–NY, AND 52 COSPONSORS
The Administration strongly opposes
House passage of H.R. 5377, the Restoring
Tax Fairness for States and Localities Act.
This legislation would unfairly force all Fed-
eral taxpayers to subsidize a tax break for
the wealthy, as well as excessive government
spending by fiscally irresponsible States.
H.R. 5377 would likely cause State and local
governments to raise taxes, all while hin-
dering the growth of small businesses and
opportunities for workers.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA),
which passed Congress without a single Dem-
ocrat vote, is a signature achievement of the
Trump Administration. This bill, which
President Donald J. Trump signed into law
on December 22, 2017, has spurred economic
growth across the Nation by lowering indi-
vidual tax rates, nearly doubling the stand-
ard deduction, simplifying the tax code, and
closing special interest loopholes. Workers
and middle-class Americans are reaping the
benefits of the TCJA in the form of record
low unemployment and substantially higher
wages. H.R. 5377 would turn back the clock
by adding a special interest provision back
into the Federal tax code that unfairly re-
quires middle-class Americans to subsidize
fiscally irresponsible States and wealthy
taxpayers. In doing so, H.R. 5377 would vio-
late the principle that States should raise
their own revenue rather than rely on tax
subsidies from the Federal Government. The
bill would also reduce incentives for States
to be fiscally responsible.
Additionally, the provision in H.R. 5377
that would raise the top income tax rate
from 37 percent to 39.6 percent would stifle
economic growth by placing an undue burden
on thousands of small businesses. Because it
is unfair to middle-class taxpayers, encour-
ages excessive spending by States, and would
stunt economic growth, H.R. 5377 is poor tax
policy that should not be enacted into law.
If H.R. 5377 were resented to the President
his senior advisors would recommend that he
veto the bill.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, there is no-
body I like better than my friend from
New Jersey, quite frankly. We are very
good friends. We have worked together
on a lot of good things. But I have to
tell you, on this one, we just disagree.
The middle class is going to benefit
from this bill? Let me just go through
the figures again. The top 1 percent of
income earners in America get 56 per-
cent of the benefits in this bill. The top
5 percent get 80 percent. The bottom 80
percent get 4 percent.
This is not a middle-class bill. This is
not even an upper-middle-class bill.
This is a bill for pretty wealthy people.
Ninety-six percent of the benefits go to
households that make more than
$200,000 a year.
Mr. PASCRELL. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. COLE. No, I won’t yield. I want
to yield to another speaker in a mo-
ment. You are the one who raised the
issue, so I am just going back to the
numbers.
The numbers here are pretty clear.
This is a targeted tax cut for wealthy
people in a very few States. That is
just the truth.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 6 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Arizona (Mrs.
LESKO), my good friend and fellow
Rules Committee member.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, most peo-
ple would think that the most sur-
prising bill to me that we voted on this
year was the Articles of Impeachment.
Really, that wasn’t a surprise to me be-
cause I serve on the Judiciary Com-
mittee, and since January, we have
been doing investigations of President
Trump. Many Republicans and I pre-
dicted all along that the majority, the
Democrats in this House, were going to
vote to impeach the President, so it
really wasn’t a surprise to me.
But this bill really surprises me, and
let me tell you why. My goodness, I
have served in the Arizona House of
Representatives for 6 years and an-
other 3 years in the Arizona Senate.
For years, every time the Republican
majority would cut taxes so that it
would boom the economy and help ev-
eryone, my Democratic colleagues then
said: ‘‘Oh, my gosh, those Republicans,
they are just helping the rich. They are
just helping the rich. They don’t care
about the little guy. They don’t care
about the middle class.’’ The same
thing is said for years now, years and
years, by my Democratic colleagues
and others that: ‘‘Oh, those Repub-
licans, they just care about the rich.’’
Oh, baloney.
The tax cut Republicans did in 2017,
you can see the effect of those tax cuts.
The economy is booming.
b 0930
There are more job openings than
there are jobs to fill them.
This bill is an interesting bill be-
cause, in the 2017 tax cut bill that the
Republicans put through, it said—you
know what—States that are fiscally re-
sponsible, that don’t have exorbitant
property taxes, those constituents in
my State of Arizona—
What did you say, sir?
Did you say I was wacko?
Oh, thank you, sir.
Mr. Speaker, people in Arizona, we
are responsible taxpayers. We don’t
have exorbitant property taxes. I know
people who live in New Jersey, and I
know how they complain how their
property taxes are so incredibly high.
The people in Arizona are fiscally re-
sponsible, and that is why people are
flocking to our State and other States
with low taxes. People in Arizona and
other States that are fiscally respon-
sible, they don’t want to subsidize the
irresponsible States that have high
taxes by giving them huge deductions
on their Federal taxes.
So, in the Republican tax bill, we
capped the deduction at $10,000. It
seems reasonable to me. In fact, the
gentleman from New Jersey, I think,
just said, recently, the average deduc-
tion is $9,000. Well, that is below
$10,000. That is below the $10,000 cap, so
they can deduct it.
But here in this bill today, Demo-
crats want to raise the cap to $20,000
and then totally eliminate it in the
next 2 years.
When the Republicans put forward
amendments, one of the amendments
said let’s not give this tax break to the
top 10 percent of income earners.
Democrats rejected it.
Then Republicans had another
amendment that said, well, let’s not
give this big tax break to the top 1 per-
cent income earners. The Democrats
rejected it.
So, please, the next time my Demo-
cratic colleagues, and Democrats
throughout the Nation, when they say
it is the Republicans who are always
for the rich people, let’s look at this
bill, because the proof is here. No, it is
the Democrats.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the fact is that Repub-
licans are funding their tax scam bill
on the backs of hardworking Ameri-
cans. The fact is that there is a race to
the bottom under their cheating, ger-
rymandering ways.
So, now, the Democrats are in charge
in the House. We will continue to work
to uphold and bring up our hard-
working families.
In Arizona’s Eighth Congressional
District, there are 9,330 teachers claim-
ing this tax expense deduction. They
should know the Democrats stand with
them to ensure that they are able to
pay their bills, because no one should
have to live in poverty because they
are standing up for a future generation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to
the gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
BROWN).
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Speak-
er, I want to thank Representative
TORRES for yielding me the time and
also my good friend from New York,
Congressman SUOZZI, for his work on
this important legislation.
Mr. Speaker, this bill fixes several
alarming defects in President Trump’s
tax giveaway to the wealthy. It also
takes steps to make our tax code fairer
for working people.
In 2017, my Republican colleagues
tried and failed to eliminate a $250 tax
deduction for teachers buying school
supplies for their children in their
classrooms.
Smaller education budgets have
forced too many teachers to buy sup-
plies to fill the gap. More than 90 per-
cent of public schoolteachers are not
reimbursed for these expenses. Nearly
80,000 educators in Maryland claim this
deduction on their taxes.
The average teacher spends $479 of
their own money buying supplies for
our kids, so I am pleased that this leg-
islation incorporates language from my
standalone bill that I filed in the 115th
Congress and again in this Congress,
the Educators Expense Deduction Mod-
ernization Act, which increases the de-
duction from $250 to $500. It is a small
benefit for educators who make a fi-
nancial sacrifice.
It is critical for local school districts
and States to better fund education
and pay educators. In Congress, we can
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.010 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12217
December 19, 2019
do more to ensure classrooms are
stocked with the supplies that our stu-
dents, our children need.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, before I get into my
prepared remarks, I want to advise my
friend that I certainly have no objec-
tion to raising the tax credit for teach-
ers or first responders. Those things
are, I think, perfectly laudable parts of
the bill.
Our main objection is simply that
the main benefits of this are going to
the top 1 percent and 5 percent of in-
comes, and that is just indisputable.
Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, I will offer an amend-
ment to the rule to immediately bring
up H.R. 750, a resolution that expresses
the sense of the House that it is the
duty of the Federal Government to pro-
tect and promote individual choice in
health insurance for all American peo-
ple and prevent any Medicare for All
proposal that would outlaw private
health plans such as the job-based cov-
erage in Medicare Advantage plans.
Earlier this Congress, the House
Rules Committee held the first-ever
legislative hearing on the Democratic
Medicare for All proposal. During that
hearing, we heard promises about the
Democrat-proposed, one-size-fits-all,
government-run healthcare system.
But we also heard about the realities of
that plan: how it would require dou-
bling income and corporate tax rates to
implement, how it would lead to long
waits for care, and how it would lead to
158 million Americans losing their cur-
rent coverage.
That is all because Medicare for All,
if implemented, would outlaw private
healthcare coverage. This includes cov-
erage offered through the popular
Medicare Advantage program, which
gives 22 million Americans healthcare.
Given that reality, it is wholly ap-
propriate for the House to take this
stand now. Protecting individual
choice and protecting the private
healthcare plans should be a priority
for this House.
If we defeat the previous question, we
will give every Member of the House an
opportunity to say so together, with
one voice.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert the text of my amend-
ment in the RECORD, along with the ex-
traneous material, immediately prior
to the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I urge a
‘‘no’’ vote on the previous question,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. LEVIN).
Mr. LEVIN of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today in support of the bipar-
tisan Restoring Tax Fairness for States
and Localities Act, which I was proud
to cosponsor.
Since 2017, many families in the
north county of San Diego and south
Orange County communities I rep-
resent have taken an unexpected, un-
fair tax hit. The financial plans they
had made, like whether to buy a new
home, were upturned when Washington
Republicans passed a tax bill that
capped the State and local tax deduc-
tion.
In my district, more than 58,000 peo-
ple who make less than $100,000 per
year claimed SALT deductions in 2017,
saving $6,328, on average.
Many of the families in California’s
49th District have made serious, long-
term financial decisions in recent
years based on the expectation that
they could take advantage of this sig-
nificant deduction. Now, because of the
Republican tax bill and the SALT cap
that placed new limits on those deduc-
tions, their financial plans are being
turned upside down. That is why I am
glad that we are voting on legislation
to restore the SALT deduction.
The House is doing its part. Now Sen-
ate Majority Leader MITCH MCCONNELL
needs to do what is right and bring this
bipartisan bill up for hearings and a
vote.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, just to quickly respond
to my friend, I would remind the gen-
tleman that Republicans offered, in
committee, an amendment which
would have, frankly, given the SALT
deduction to the bottom 90 percent of
all Americans in exchange for con-
tinuing to charge it on the top 10 per-
cent. I suspect that would cover the
vast majority of the gentleman’s con-
stituents who might benefit.
I also remind everybody that the
standard deduction was double, so, for
most people, the average person actu-
ally came out ahead. It is only the very
wealthy people who lost ground under
this particular measure.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr.
GREEN), a distinguished former gen-
eral.
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Mr. Speak-
er, I want to just say today that I live
in the State of Tennessee, and in Ten-
nessee, we are a fiscally responsible
State. We have the lowest per capita
debt in the Nation. We have no income
tax at all. We have no investment in-
come tax.
When a State has superhigh taxes
and you allow individuals to write that
tax off, it is unfair to those well-man-
aged States like Tennessee that don’t
tax our people as much.
So, when you raise caps or you raise
deductions, those States that are poor-
ly managed, those States that are
high-tax States to their individuals are
subsidized by the people in Tennessee.
We wind up paying more tax so that
those States that are poorly managed
can pay less.
To say, oh, we have got to do this for
the low-income individuals out there,
well, how about those States just man-
age themselves better, tax their people
less, and then there wouldn’t be an
issue? Why should the people of Ten-
nessee have to subsidize States that
can’t manage themselves?
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to correct, for
the record, about the 2017 Republican
tax scam.
We have heard today, during this de-
bate, that these tax cuts boosted our
economy, and that simply isn’t the
case.
I include in the RECORD an article
from Forbes titled: ‘‘The 2017 Tax Cuts
Didn’t Work, the Data Prove It.’’
[From Forbes, May 30, 2019]
THE 2017 TAX CUTS DIDN’T WORK, THE DATA
PROVE IT
(By Christian Weller)
The independent, non-partisan Congres-
sional Research Service just released a re-
port showing that the 2017 tax cuts for the
richest Americans and corporations did not
work. This confirms what anybody who has
been looking at the data already knew. In-
vestment did not boom and workers will not
see the promised bump in pay. Instead, the
federal government incurred massive deficits
while wealth inequality increased to its
highest level in three decades.
Republicans in Congress and President
Trump touted the benefits of Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act of 2017 as game changing. Show-
ering the richest Americans and corpora-
tions even more money was supposed to lead
to more business investments. These invest-
ments, the argument went, would translate
into more productivity growth. Workers
would then supposedly see an additional
$4,000 per year in wages. And faster economic
growth and higher wages would result in
more tax revenue, thus paying mainly for
itself.
These were empty promises. Businesses did
not use the windfall of new cash to invest in
new machines, technology, office parks and
manufacturing plants. Without an accelera-
tion in business investment, though, Amer-
ican workers will not see the bumps in pay
promised over the longer term. The richest
Americans instead got even richer while cor-
porations used a lot of the new money to
keep shareholders happy. Federal budget
deficits quickly ballooned because there was
no faster growth and more revenue to offset
the hundreds of billions lost each year to the
predictably wasteful tax cuts.
The core of the argument in favor of the
tax cuts was that they would result in more
investment. The main measure is business
investment that goes beyond replacing obso-
lete equipment and buildings—so-called net
non-residential fixed investment. As share of
gross domestic product (GDP), net invest-
ment reached a low of 2.8% in the first quar-
ter of 2016 (see figure below). It grew after-
wards until the tax cuts were passed in late
2017 and eventually levelled off rather than
accelerating in mid–2018. Consequently, net
investment as share of GDP stayed below its
levels in 2014. The tax cuts did not accelerate
investment as promised by supply-side advo-
cates.
But maybe the tax cuts boosted growth in
other ways? In theory, the tax cuts could
have created some additional demand that
resulted in people spending more money,
which would then have led businesses to also
increase its spending. To capture this, an
economic measure needs to strip out parts of
the economy from GDP that are not affected
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.009 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12218 December 19, 2019
by tax cuts. These parts include inventory
investment—material that is produced but
sits on shelves—government consumption on
salaries and supplies, and net exports—the
difference between exports and imports. The
resulting key measure are so-called private
domestic final purchases (PDFP).
The tax cuts did not lead to faster private
activity. PDFP increased by 3.3% from De-
cember 2016 to December 2017, before Con-
gress passed the tax cuts. Afterwards, year-
over-year growth remained at or below that
level, actually declining since September
2018. This deceleration is yet another clear
indictment of the tax cuts’ ineffectiveness.
But didn’t GDP growth accelerate? Not
only does GDP growth capture parts of the
economy that clearly were not affected by
the tax cuts, the data also show no accelera-
tion there, either. GDP growth started to get
faster from low of 1.3% in June 2016 and con-
tinued to gain strength through 2018 (see
Figure above). But year-over-year growth in
2018 stayed below the levels shown in early
2015.
The money from the tax cuts obviously
went somewhere, just not to investments or
workers’ wages. Corporations just decided to
use their additional cash to keep their share-
holders happy. Non-financial corporations
used most of their after-tax profits since the
tax cuts went into effect to buy back their
own shares and pay out dividends. When a
firm buys back its own shares, the remaining
shares become more valuable and the com-
pany’s stock price goes up, increasing the
wealth of shareholders, mainly people who
are already very wealthy. CEOs in particular
gained from buybacks since their compensa-
tion typically depends on the price of a com-
pany’s stock. In 2018, corporations spent
about two-thirds of their after-tax profits on
buying back their own shares and paying out
dividends, according to Fed data. By the
fourth quarter of 2018, corporations spent 107.
7% of after-tax profits on dividends and
share repurchases.
This was good news for the wealthiest few.
The top one percent of wealthiest households
owned a record high share of all wealth by
the middle of 2018 (see figure below).
At the same time, federal budget deficits
rapidly jumped. After falling precipitously in
the immediate aftermath of the Great Reces-
sion, the deficits quickly grew again in 2018
(see figure below). The increase in deficits
was driven heavily by a sharp drop in cor-
porate tax revenue—not surprisingly, given
the massive corporate tax cuts in the legisla-
tion.
did not accelerate, but wealth inequality
grew. The American tax payers are now get-
ting stuck with the bill, while they did not
see many benefits from this trillion dollar
boondoggle.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I include in the RECORD an-
other article, and this one is from
CNBC, titled: ‘‘Trump Tax Cuts Did
Little to Boost Economic Growth in
2018, Study Says.’’
[From CNBC, May 29, 2019]
TRUMP TAX CUTS DID LITTLE TO BOOST
ECONOMIC GROWTH IN 2018, STUDY SAYS
(By Jeff Cox)
An in-depth look by the nonpartisan Con-
gressional Research Service indicated that
not only did the rollbacks in business and
personal rates have little macro impact, but
they also delivered the most benefits to cor-
porations and the rich, with little boost to
wages.
In all, GDP rose 2.9% for the full calendar
year, the best performance since the finan-
cial crisis. But that came in an economy al-
ready poised to move higher, economists
Jane Gravelle and Donald Marples wrote.
‘‘On the whole, the growth effects [from
the cuts] tend to show a relatively small (if
any) first-year effect on the economy,’’ the
report said. ‘‘Although examining the
growth rates cannot indicate the effects of
the tax cut on GDP, it does tend to rule out
very large effects in the near term.’’
Trump had touted the cuts as a key step
toward generating GDP growth of at least
3%. The legislation, passed in late 2017,
slashed corporate tax rates from 35% to 21%,
reduced the number of brackets, lowered
rates for many individual payers, and dou-
bled the standard deduction in an effort to
make most income tax-exempt for the lowest
earners.
Employment continued to boom in 2018 and
average hourly earnings have in recent
months passed 3% on a year-over-year basis
for the first time since the recovery began in
2009. However, the economists said wage
gains could not be tracked to the tax cuts.
‘‘This growth is smaller than overall
growth in labor compensation and indicates
that ordinary workers had very little growth
in wage rates,’’ the economists wrote.
The study indicated that the tax changes
contributed only marginally to the overall
economic economic gains—maybe 0.3% of a
‘‘feedback effect.’’ The economists say that
for the tax cuts to pay for themselves, as
Trump has promised, GDP would have to rise
by 6.7%.
‘‘The initial effect of a demand side is like-
ly to be reflected in increased consumption
and the data indicate little growth in con-
sumption in 2018,’’ the report said. ‘‘Much of
the tax cut was directed at businesses and
higher-income individuals who are less like-
ly to spend. Fiscal stimulus is limited in an
economy that is at or near full employ-
ment.’’
At the same time, tax receipts from 2018
indicate that corporations got an even bigger
break than expected.
While the Congressional Budget Office had
forecast a $94 billion break that still would
have generated $243 billion in corporate reve-
nues, the actual total was $205 billion, or 16%
lower than projected.
The effective tax for corporations, or the
level they pay after taxes, was 17.2% in the
year before the tax breaks took hold and
plunged to 8.8% for 2018. Individuals, mean-
while, saw a drop from 9.6% as a percentage
of personal income in 2017 to 9.2% last year.
Bonuses from those companies also didn’t
amount to much when averaged across all
workers, with the $4.4 billion paid coming to
just $28 per employee in the U.S.
Companies also received incentives to re-
patriate profits held overseas, and they did
so to the tune of $664 billion. While compa-
nies bought back about $1 trillion of their
own shares, ‘‘the evidence does not suggest a
surge in investment from abroad in 2018,’’
the report said.
The White House did not immediately re-
spond to a request for comment.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. SUOZZI).
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I wasn’t
going to speak today on the rule, but I
am just so outraged when I hear people
attacking States like mine and other
States.
My State, the State of New York, is
the largest single net donor to the Fed-
eral Government of any State in the
United States of America. We send $48
billion a year more to the Federal Gov-
ernment than we get back. And to hear
this talk about irresponsible States
that are really subsidizing these other
States of the speakers who have spoken
from the other side today is just so ir-
responsible and so divisive in our Na-
tion.
We talk about this bill, about restor-
ing tax fairness, that is exactly what it
is: tax fairness.
It is not fair that people are taxed on
the taxes they have already paid.
It is not fair that State and local
governments who pick up the garbage
and plow the roads and protect our peo-
ple and educate our children are being
forced to have to worry about more
money being used to subsidize the rest
of the country.
It is not fair that this has been in
place since 1913, and they want to try
and change this covenant that has ex-
isted since the beginning of the Federal
tax code. They want to change it at
this time, and it is completely unfair.
Let me point out, with one last
point, that 100 percent of this bill is
paid for by the highest earners in the
United States of America. One hundred
percent is paid for by the highest earn-
ers.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield the gentleman from
New York an additional 30 seconds.
Mr. SUOZZI. If my colleagues are
concerned about the wealthy getting
too much, then have them increase the
progressive tax even higher if that is
what they really mean.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, nobody admires my
friend from New York more than I do.
We worked on a number of issues. But
let’s be real. Democrats are going to
make the rich, I guess, in every State
pay for the rich in your own State.
That is just the fact.
b 0945
Most of the benefit of this thing—56
percent of the benefits—goes to the top
1 percent of income earners. That is
the fact. Eighty percent of it goes to
the top 5 percent, and 94 percent goes
to households that make over $200,000 a
year. Those are just the numbers.
Now, some of this is used for worthy
causes. I would agree with that. But a
permanent tax increase for a tem-
porary tax cut, frankly, just doesn’t
make a lot of sense, and that is what
we are dealing with here.
So I would also suggest that my
friends remember that the tax cut that
they revile so much doubles the per-
sonal exemption for most people so
that more than offsets for most people
the SALT tax reduction that was re-
duced. It is not eliminated; it is still
there.
Mr. Speaker, $10,000 a year is still a
pretty good deduction to be able to
take. If you make that much income
that you can take a deduction that
large, then you are probably doing
pretty well.
So, again, I don’t have any problem
with people defending the interest of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.012 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12219
December 19, 2019
their States, that is a perfectly appro-
priate thing to do. I don’t have any
problem with people wanting to use
money for good purposes. That is a per-
fectly appropriate thing to do. But let’s
be real about who is getting the benefit
of this tax package, and it is very-high-
income people.
In fact, I am going to oppose it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 1 additional minute to
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
SUOZZI).
Mr. SUOZZI. Mr. Speaker, I won’t
take a full minute.
Mr. Speaker, I want to first start by
saying how much I respect and admire
Mr. COLE, and I have worked closely
with him on many issues.
I just want to make one point,
though. So many of my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle have been
boasting about the fact that people are
leaving States like mine to move to
their States. That has been one of the
effects of this tax bill by eliminating
the State and local tax cap.
What happens when people leave my
State and move to the Southwest or
the Southeast?
They leave behind lower- and middle-
income-tax people to pick up the bill.
They are trying to boast about the
fact that our States, which are mature,
industrial States that have old roads,
old bridges, old sewers, old schools, and
old hospitals, when we get money from
the Federal Government, we have got
to fix up those legacy issues. We have
got to deal with pockets of poverty be-
cause we have been around for a longer
time.
Their States are growing when they
get money from us. We are subsidizing
the rest of the country.
When they get money from the Fed-
eral Government, what are they using
it for?
New sewers, new roads, new bridges,
new hospitals, and new schools. They
are growing, and they are bringing in
new sales and new property taxes. They
are trying to take credit for it when
really it is because of the progressive
income tax and the money that has
come from our States that has helped
their States to succeed. It is hypocrisy
to suggest that our States are somehow
irresponsible. It is hypocrisy to suggest
that they are concerned about the
wealthiest Americans.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I advise my
friend I am prepared to close whenever
she is. In the interim, I will reserve if
she has more speakers.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I am prepared to close also.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time to close.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I oppose both
the rule and the underlying measure.
H.R. 5377 is a deeply misguided and par-
tisan tax bill that sets up a temporary
tax break for a privileged few and seeks
to trade it for a permanent tax hike for
the entire country.
The bill temporarily removes the cap
on the State and local tax deduction, a
benefit that will primarily go to
wealthy taxpayers living in expensive
homes in a few key States and local-
ities. But to pay for this temporary
boondoggle, the majority is adding a
permanent hike at the top marginal
tax rate. The benefits will go only to a
few key privileged areas, but the costs
are spread across the entire country.
It makes very little sense to me to
trade a temporary tax break for a per-
manent tax increase, and it makes
even less sense to me to ask the entire
country to pay for it in perpetuity for
a short-term tax break for a few areas
with high State and local taxes.
Now, my friends have talked about
the relative tax burden and who gives
what and what States give what. As a
former member of the Budget Com-
mittee, those numbers are, by the way,
usually based on the discretionary por-
tion of the budget. The reality is—I
hate to say this, because we have a big
problem in front of us that I don’t
think either party has confronted very
well, certainly not mine, but I don’t
think my friends have either, and I
don’t think this administration has,
and I don’t think the last one did—
every State in America is a debtor
State if you start adding in Medicare,
Medicaid, and those type of nondis-
cretionary expenditures.
So we have a big problem. It is really
related to an aging population more
than it is anything else, but the idea
that some States are so-called donor
States, I have to tell you, Mr. Speaker,
nobody is a donor State in America. We
are running nearly a $1 trillion deficit.
That deficit comes almost primarily
because we have simply not readjusted
Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Secu-
rity to pay for the benefits that are
drawn out. I hope someday we will
work on that.
I actually have a bipartisan bill, I
used to carry it with Mr. Delaney—a
very good friend and Presidential can-
didate from my good friends on the
other side—that would go back and set
up what we did in 1983. When Ronald
Reagan and Tip O’Neill worked to-
gether, we had a Social Security Com-
mission. We actually increased the rev-
enue going into Social Security. I
think that would have to be one of the
long-term fixes, not simply cuts, reduc-
tions, and reforms. That is a debate for
another day.
In closing, Mr. Speaker, American
taxpayers, in my view, deserve better
than what is in front of us here today.
Rather than making the tax code more
regressive and complicated, which this
bill would do, we should further reform
and simplify the tax code to make it
easier for all taxpayers to understand.
We should be making American busi-
nesses more competitive, and we
should be taking steps so that Amer-
ican workers can keep more of their
hard-earned earned income, something
I know we all want to do.
In closing, again, just remember this:
56 percent of the benefits of this bill go
to the top 1 percent of income earners.
The top 5 percent get 80 percent, and
the bottom 80 percent in terms of in-
come get 4 percent. That should ex-
plain it all and why we should reject
this bill.
So, Mr. Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on the previous
question, ‘‘no’’ on the rule, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Mr. Speaker, I want to start by clari-
fying a misconception that all of these
taxes are forced upon taxpayers. This
last election cycle local voters voted to
tax themselves to pay for affordable
housing for our growing homeless pop-
ulation, to pay for improved roads, and
to pay for better water quality. So
they should not be punished for filling
the gap where the Federal Government
has failed to do so. This bill is paid for
by raising taxes for households making
over $400,000, back to the levels before
Republicans passed their tax scam bill.
California pays $13 billion more in
Federal taxes than it received from the
Federal Government according to a
2016 IRS report. Tennessee is the third
most dependent State on Federal re-
sources. So to argue here that we
should punish the people for wanting to
help provide for your constituents be-
cause you failed to do that is out-
rageous. Oklahoma received $7.5 billion
in Federal funding in 2016. This bill is
not about subsidizing those who al-
ready have too much. This bill is about
stopping the double taxation on the
same dollar.
Mr. Speaker, we are here to try to
give the middle-class families a break
and undo the damage caused by the Re-
publican tax scam. As we look forward
to the new year, I want to take a
minute to reflect on the work Demo-
crats in Congress have done during this
116th Congress.
Whereas, the Republican tax law pro-
vided seven drug companies $34 billion
in tax cuts in 1 year alone, last week,
Democrats passed H.R. 3 to help sen-
iors and American families afford their
prescription drugs.
Whereas, last January the President
caused the longest government shut-
down in history by pushing to irrespon-
sibly use taxpayer dollars for an unnec-
essary border wall, Democrats have
fought for comprehensive funding bills
that invest in our infrastructure,
healthcare, national security, and to
increase the Federal minimum wage.
Whereas, the Republican tax scam
led to America’s 400 wealthiest people
paying a much lower tax rate than the
working class, Democrats are here
today because we believe in the middle
class.
Repealing the cap on the State and
local tax deductions will benefit tax-
payers across our Nation. I have heard
my colleagues claim that this bill is
for the wealthy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.013 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12220 December 19, 2019
Mr. Speaker, do my colleagues re-
member voting on the largest tax give-
away to the rich and corporations in
American history?
Obviously, they don’t. But I am here
to remind them that the biggest bene-
ficiaries of the tax law that they
passed were billionaires. The Joint
Committee on Taxation estimated that
wealthy taxpayers making $1 million
or higher received a tax cut of $37 bil-
lion in 2019.
Mr. Speaker, while the Republican
tax scam was a bill for the megarich,
H.R. 5377 is legislation for constituents
like mine, working-class Americans.
The cap on SALT deductions is bad for
my constituents.
The average Californian pays over
$18,000 in State and local taxes, which
is almost double over the SALT cap,
again, to help improve the quality of
life of the fifth largest economy in the
world, which no other State can claim.
As a result, 1 million Californians will
pay $12 billion more in taxes into the
SALT cap.
In 2016 my constituents deducted al-
most $700 million in State and local
taxes from their Federal taxes.
It is time to give them a break and
give them back the deductions that
they once had. No one should have to
pay taxes twice on the same dollar.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to vote for the rule and passage of H.R.
5377, Restoring Tax Fairness for States
and Localities Act.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the rule and a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the pre-
vious question.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. COLE is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 772
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 2. Immediately upon adoption of this
resolution, the House shall proceed to the
consideration in the House of the resolution
(H. Res. 750) expressing the sense of the
House of Representatives that individual
choice in health insurance should be pro-
tected. The resolution shall be considered as
read. The previous question shall be consid-
ered as ordered on the resolution and pre-
amble to adoption without intervening mo-
tion or demand for division of the question
except one hour of debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Energy
and Commerce. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall
not apply to the consideration of House Res-
olution 750.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield back the balance of
my time, and I move the previous ques-
tion on the resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of adoption of the resolution.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 227, nays
195, not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 697]
YEAS—227
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—195
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—8
Beatty
Hunter
Kaptur
Marchant
McEachin
Pressley
Serrano
Shimkus
b 1024
Mr. MCCARTHY changed his vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. THOMPSON of Mississippi
and CARSON of Indiana changed their
vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 697.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 227, nays
196, not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 698]
YEAS—227
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:18 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12221
December 19, 2019
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—196
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—7
Hudson
Hunter
Marchant
McEachin
Serrano
Shimkus
Stanton
b 1035
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 698.
f
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA
AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION
ACT
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Decem-
ber 16, 2019, I call up the bill (H.R. 5430)
to implement the Agreement between
the United States of America, the
United Mexican States, and Canada at-
tached as an Annex to the Protocol Re-
placing the North American Free Trade
Agreement, and ask for its immediate
consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
TORRES SMALL of New Mexico). Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Decem-
ber 16, 2019, the bill is considered read.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 5430
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘United States-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment Implementation Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Purpose.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
TITLE I—APPROVAL OF, AND GENERAL
PROVISIONS RELATING TO, THE USMCA
Sec. 101. Approval and entry into force of
the USMCA.
Sec. 102. Relationship of the USMCA to
United States and State law.
Sec. 103. Implementing actions in anticipa-
tion of entry into force; initial
regulations; tariff proclamation
authority.
Sec. 104. Consultation and layover provi-
sions for, and effective date of,
proclaimed actions.
Sec. 105. Administration of dispute settle-
ment proceedings.
Sec. 106. Trade Representative authority.
Sec. 107. Effective date.
TITLE II—CUSTOMS PROVISIONS
Sec. 201. Exclusion of originating goods of
USMCA countries from special
agriculture safeguard author-
ity.
Sec. 202. Rules of origin.
Sec. 202A. Special rules for automotive
goods.
Sec. 203. Merchandise processing fee.
Sec. 204. Disclosure of incorrect informa-
tion; false certifications of ori-
gin; denial of preferential tariff
treatment.
Sec. 205. Reliquidation of entries.
Sec. 206. Recordkeeping requirements.
Sec. 207. Actions regarding verification of
claims under the USMCA.
Sec. 208. Drawback [reserved].
Sec. 209. Other amendments to the Tariff
Act of 1930.
Sec. 210. Regulations.
TITLE III—APPLICATION OF USMCA TO
SECTORS AND SERVICES
Subtitle A—Relief From Injury Caused by
Import Competition [reserved]
Subtitle B—Temporary Entry of Business
Persons [reserved]
Subtitle C—United States-Mexico Cross-
border Long-haul Trucking Services
Sec. 321. Definitions.
Sec. 322. Investigations and determinations
by Commission.
Sec. 323. Commission recommendations and
report.
Sec. 324. Action by President with respect to
affirmative determination.
Sec. 325. Confidential business information.
Sec. 326. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 327. Survey of operating authorities.
TITLE IV—ANTIDUMPING AND
COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
Subtitle A—Preventing Duty Evasion
Sec. 401. Cooperation on duty evasion.
Subtitle B—Dispute Settlement [reserved]
Subtitle C—Conforming Amendments
Sec. 421. Judicial review in antidumping
duty and countervailing duty
cases.
Sec. 422. Conforming amendments to other
provisions of the Tariff Act of
1930.
Sec. 423. Conforming amendments to title
28, United States Code.
Subtitle D—General Provisions
Sec. 431. Effect of termination of USMCA
country status.
Sec. 432. Effective date.
TITLE V—TRANSFER PROVISIONS AND
OTHER AMENDMENTS
Sec. 501. Drawback.
Sec. 502. Relief from injury caused by im-
port competition.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12222 December 19, 2019
Sec. 503. Temporary entry.
Sec. 504. Dispute settlement in antidumping
and countervailing duty cases.
Sec. 505. Government procurement.
Sec. 506. Actions affecting United States
cultural industries.
Sec. 507. Regulatory treatment of uranium
purchases.
Sec. 508. Report on amendments to existing
law.
TITLE VI—TRANSITION TO AND
EXTENSION OF USMCA
Subtitle A—Transitional Provisions
Sec. 601. Repeal of North American Free
Trade Agreement Implementa-
tion Act.
Sec. 602. Continued suspension of the United
States-Canada Free-Trade
Agreement.
Subtitle B—Joint Reviews Regarding
Extension of USMCA
Sec. 611. Participation in joint reviews with
Canada and Mexico regarding
extension of the term of the
USMCA and other action re-
garding the USMCA.
Subtitle C—Termination of USMCA
Sec. 621. Termination of USMCA.
TITLE VII—LABOR MONITORING AND
ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 701. Definitions.
Subtitle A—Interagency Labor Committee
for Monitoring and Enforcement
Sec. 711. Interagency labor committee for
monitoring and enforcement.
Sec. 712. Duties.
Sec. 713. Enforcement priorities.
Sec. 714. Assessments.
Sec. 715. Recommendation for enforcement
action.
Sec. 716. Petition process.
Sec. 717. Hotline.
Sec. 718. Reports.
Sec. 719. Consultations on appointment and
funding of rapid response labor
panelists.
Subtitle B—Mexico Labor Attachés
Sec. 721. Establishment.
Sec. 722. Duties.
Sec. 723. Status.
Subtitle C—Independent Mexico Labor
Expert Board
Sec. 731. Establishment.
Sec. 732. Membership; term.
Sec. 733. Funding.
Sec. 734. Reports.
Subtitle D—Forced Labor
Sec. 741. Forced labor enforcement task
force.
Sec. 742. Timeline required.
Sec. 743. Reports required.
Sec. 744. Duties related to Mexico.
Subtitle E—Enforcement Under Rapid
Response Labor Mechanism
Sec. 751. Transmission of reports.
Sec. 752. Suspension of liquidation.
Sec. 753. Final remedies.
TITLE VIII—ENVIRONMENT MONITORING
AND ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 801. Definitions.
Subtitle A—Interagency Environment
Committee for Monitoring and Enforcement
Sec. 811. Establishment.
Sec. 812. Assessment.
Sec. 813. Monitoring actions.
Sec. 814. Enforcement actions.
Sec. 815. Other monitoring and enforcement
actions.
Sec. 816. Report to Congress.
Sec. 817. Regulations.
Subtitle B—Other Matters
Sec. 821. Border water infrastructure im-
provement authority.
Sec. 822. Detail of personnel to Office of the
United States Trade Represent-
ative.
Subtitle C—North American Development
Bank
Sec. 831. General capital increase.
Sec. 832. Policy goals.
Sec. 833. Efficiencies and streamlining.
Sec. 834. Performance measures.
TITLE IX—USMCA SUPPLEMENTAL
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
SEC. 2. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Act is to approve and
implement the Agreement between the
United States of America, the United Mexi-
can States, and Canada entered into under
the authority of section 103(b) of the Bipar-
tisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Ac-
countability Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4202(b)).
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means the Committee on Fi-
nance of the Senate and the Committee on
Ways and Means of the House of Representa-
tives.
(2) HTS.—The term ‘‘HTS’’ means the Har-
monized Tariff Schedule of the United
States.
(3) IDENTICAL GOODS.—The term ‘‘identical
goods’’ means goods that are the same in all
respects relevant to the rule of origin that
qualifies the goods as originating goods.
(4) INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION.—The
term ‘‘International Trade Commission’’
means the United States International Trade
Commission.
(5) MEXICO.—The term ‘‘Mexico’’ means the
United Mexican States.
(6) NAFTA.—The term ‘‘NAFTA’’ means
the North American Free Trade Agreement
approved by Congress under section 101(a)(1)
of the North American Free Trade Agree-
ment Implementation Act (19 U.S.C.
3311(a)(1)).
(7) PREFERENTIAL TARIFF TREATMENT.—The
term ‘‘preferential tariff treatment’’ means
the customs duty rate that is applicable to
an originating good (as defined in section
202(a)) under the USMCA.
(8) TRADE REPRESENTATIVE.—The term
‘‘Trade Representative’’ means the United
States Trade Representative.
(9) USMCA.—The term ‘‘USMCA’’ means
the Agreement between the United States of
America, the United Mexican States, and
Canada, which is—
(A) attached as an Annex to the Protocol
Replacing the North American Free Trade
Agreement with the Agreement between the
United States of America, the United Mexi-
can States, and Canada, done at Buenos
Aires on November 30, 2018, as amended by
the Protocol of Amendment to the Agree-
ment Between the United States of America,
the United Mexican States, and Canada, done
at Mexico City on December 10, 2019; and
(B) approved by Congress under section
101(a)(1).
(10) USMCA COUNTRY.—Except as otherwise
provided, the term ‘‘USMCA country’’
means—
(A) Canada for such time as the USMCA is
in force with respect to, and the United
States applies the USMCA to, Canada; and
(B) Mexico for such time as the USMCA is
in force with respect to, and the United
States applies the USMCA to, Mexico.
TITLE I—APPROVAL OF, AND GENERAL
PROVISIONS RELATING TO, THE USMCA
SEC. 101. APPROVAL AND ENTRY INTO FORCE OF
THE USMCA.
(a) APPROVAL OF USMCA AND STATEMENT
OF ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION.—Pursuant to
section 106 of the Bipartisan Congressional
Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of
2015 (19 U.S.C. 4205) and section 151 of the
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2191), Congress
approves—
(1) the Protocol Replacing the North Amer-
ican Free Trade Agreement with the Agree-
ment between the United States of America,
the United Mexican States, and Canada, done
at Buenos Aires on November 30, 2018, as sub-
mitted to Congress on December 13, 2019;
(2) the Agreement between the United
States of America, the United Mexican
States, and Canada, attached as an Annex to
the Protocol, as amended by the Protocol of
Amendment to the Agreement between the
United States of America, the United Mexi-
can States, and Canada, done at Mexico City
on December 10, 2019, as submitted to Con-
gress on December 13, 2019; and
(3) the statement of administrative action
proposed to implement that Agreement, as
submitted to Congress on December 13, 2019.
(b) CONDITIONS FOR ENTRY INTO FORCE OF
THE AGREEMENT.—The President is author-
ized to provide for the USMCA to enter into
force with respect to Canada and Mexico not
earlier than 30 days after the date on which
the President submits to Congress the writ-
ten notice required by section 106(a)(1)(G) of
the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Prior-
ities and Accountability Act of 2015 (19
U.S.C. 4205(a)(1)(G)), which shall include the
date on which the USMCA will enter into
force.
SEC. 102. RELATIONSHIP OF THE USMCA TO
UNITED STATES AND STATE LAW.
(a) RELATIONSHIP OF USMCA TO UNITED
STATES LAW.—
(1) UNITED STATES LAW TO PREVAIL IN CON-
FLICT.—No provision of the USMCA, nor the
application of any such provision to any per-
son or circumstance, which is inconsistent
with any law of the United States, shall have
effect.
(2) CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this Act
shall be construed—
(A) to amend or modify any law of the
United States, or
(B) to limit any authority conferred under
any law of the United States,
unless specifically provided for in this Act.
(b) RELATIONSHIP OF USMCA TO STATE
LAW.—
(1) LEGAL CHALLENGE.—No State law, or
the application thereof, may be declared in-
valid as to any person or circumstance on
the ground that the provision or application
is inconsistent with the USMCA, except in
an action brought by the United States for
the purpose of declaring such law or applica-
tion invalid.
(2) DEFINITION OF STATE LAW.—For purposes
of this subsection, the term ‘‘State law’’ in-
cludes—
(A) any law of a political subdivision of a
State; and
(B) any State law regulating or taxing the
business of insurance.
(c) EFFECT OF USMCA WITH RESPECT TO
PRIVATE REMEDIES.—No person other than
the United States—
(1) shall have any cause of action or de-
fense under the USMCA or by virtue of con-
gressional approval thereof; or
(2) may challenge, in any action brought
under any provision of law, any action or in-
action by any department, agency, or other
instrumentality of the United States, any
State, or any political subdivision of a State,
on the ground that such action or inaction is
inconsistent with the USMCA.
SEC. 103. IMPLEMENTING ACTIONS IN ANTICIPA-
TION OF ENTRY INTO FORCE; INI-
TIAL REGULATIONS; TARIFF PROC-
LAMATION AUTHORITY.
(a) IMPLEMENTING ACTIONS.—
(1) PROCLAMATION AUTHORITY.—After the
date of the enactment of this Act—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:37 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12223
December 19, 2019
(A) the President may proclaim such ac-
tions, and
(B) other appropriate officers of the United
States Government may prescribe such regu-
lations,
as may be necessary to ensure that any pro-
vision of this Act, or amendment made by
this Act, that takes effect on the date on
which the USMCA enters into force is appro-
priately implemented on such date, but no
such proclamation or regulation may have
an effective date earlier than the date on
which the USMCA enters into force.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE OF CERTAIN PROCLAIMED
ACTIONS.—Any action proclaimed by the
President under the authority of this Act
that is not subject to the consultation and
layover provisions under section 104 may not
take effect before the 15th day after the date
on which the text of the proclamation is pub-
lished in the Federal Register.
(3) WAIVER OF 15-DAY RESTRICTION.—The 15-
day restriction contained in paragraph (2) on
the taking effect of proclaimed actions is
waived to the extent that the application of
such restriction would prevent the taking ef-
fect on the date on which the USMCA enters
into force of any action proclaimed under
this section.
(b) INITIAL REGULATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided by
paragraph (2) or (3), initial regulations nec-
essary or appropriate to carry out the ac-
tions required by or authorized under this
Act or proposed in the statement of adminis-
trative action approved under section
101(a)(2) to implement the USMCA shall, to
the maximum extent feasible, be prescribed
within 1 year after the date on which the
USMCA enters into force.
(2) UNIFORM REGULATIONS.—Interim or ini-
tial regulations to implement the Uniform
Regulations regarding rules of origin pro-
vided for under article 5.16 of the USMCA
shall be prescribed not later than the date on
which the USMCA enters into force.
(3) IMPLEMENTING ACTIONS WITH EFFECTIVE
DATES AFTER ENTRY INTO FORCE.—In the case
of any implementing action that takes effect
on a date after the date on which the USMCA
enters into force, initial regulations to carry
out that action shall, to the maximum ex-
tent feasible, be prescribed within 1 year
after such effective date.
(c) TARIFF MODIFICATIONS.—
(1) TARIFF MODIFICATIONS PROVIDED FOR IN
THE USMCA.—The President may proclaim—
(A) such modifications or continuation of
any duty,
(B) such continuation of duty-free or excise
treatment, or
(C) such additional duties,
as the President determines to be necessary
or appropriate to carry out or apply articles
2.4, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 6.2, and 6.3, the
Schedule of the United States to Annex 2–B,
including the appendices to that Annex,
Annex 2–C, and Annex 6–A, of the USMCA.
(2) OTHER TARIFF MODIFICATIONS.—Subject
to the consultation and layover provisions of
section 104, the President may proclaim—
(A) such modifications or continuation of
any duty,
(B) such modifications as the United
States may agree to with a USMCA country
regarding the staging of any duty treatment
set forth in the Schedule of the United
States to Annex 2–B of the USMCA, includ-
ing the appendices to that Annex,
(C) such continuation of duty-free or excise
treatment, or
(D) such additional duties,
as the President determines to be necessary
or appropriate to maintain the general level
of reciprocal and mutually advantageous
concessions with respect to a USMCA coun-
try provided for by the USMCA.
(3) CONVERSION TO AD VALOREM RATES.—For
purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2), with re-
spect to any good for which the base rate in
the Schedule of the United States to Annex
2–B of the USMCA is a specific or compound
rate of duty, the President shall substitute
for the base rate an ad valorem rate that the
President determines to be equivalent to the
base rate.
(4) TARIFF-RATE QUOTAS.—In implementing
the tariff-rate quotas set forth in the Sched-
ule of the United States to Annex 2–B of the
USMCA, the President shall take such ac-
tions as may be necessary to ensure that im-
ports of agricultural goods do not disrupt the
orderly marketing of agricultural goods in
the United States.
(5) PRESIDENTIAL PROCLAMATION AUTHORITY
RELATING TO RULES OF ORIGIN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The President may pro-
claim, as part of the HTS—
(i) the provisions set forth in Annex 4–B of
the USMCA;
(ii) the provisions set forth in paragraph 2
of article 3.A.6 of Annex 3–A of the USMCA;
(iii) the provisions set forth in paragraph 5
of Annex 3–B of the USMCA;
(iv) the provisions set forth in paragraphs
14(b), 14(c), and 15(e) of Section B of Appen-
dix 2 to Annex 2–B of the USMCA; and
(v) any additional subordinate category
that is necessary to carry out section 202 and
section 202A consistent with the USMCA.
(B) MODIFICATIONS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the consulta-
tion and layover provisions of section 104,
the President may proclaim modifications to
the provisions proclaimed under the author-
ity of subparagraph (A), other than the pro-
visions of chapters 50 through 63 of the
USMCA.
(ii) SPECIAL RULE FOR TEXTILES.—Notwith-
standing clause (i), and subject to the con-
sultation and layover provisions of section
104, the President may proclaim—
(I) such modifications to the provisions
proclaimed under the authority of subpara-
graph (A) as are necessary to implement an
agreement with one or more USMCA coun-
tries pursuant to article 6.4 of the USMCA;
and
(II) before the end of the 1-year period be-
ginning on the date on which the USMCA en-
ters into force, modifications to correct any
typographical, clerical, or other nonsub-
stantive technical error regarding the provi-
sions of chapters 50 through 63 of the
USMCA.
SEC. 104. CONSULTATION AND LAYOVER PROVI-
SIONS FOR, AND EFFECTIVE DATE
OF, PROCLAIMED ACTIONS.
If a provision of this Act provides that the
implementation of an action by the Presi-
dent by proclamation is subject to the con-
sultation and layover requirements of this
section, that action may be proclaimed only
if—
(1) the President has obtained advice re-
garding the proposed action from—
(A) the appropriate advisory committees
established under section 135 of the Trade
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2155); and
(B) the International Trade Commission,
which shall hold a public hearing on the pro-
posed action before providing advice regard-
ing the proposed action;
(2) the President has submitted to the
Committee on Finance of the Senate and the
Committee on Ways and Means of the House
of Representatives a report that sets forth—
(A) the proposed action and the reasons
therefor; and
(B) the advice obtained under paragraph
(1);
(3) a period of 60 calendar days, beginning
on the first day on which the requirements
set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) have been
met, has expired; and
(4) the President has consulted with the
committees referred to in paragraph (2) re-
garding the proposed action during the pe-
riod referred to in paragraph (3).
SEC. 105. ADMINISTRATION OF DISPUTE SETTLE-
MENT PROCEEDINGS.
(a) UNITED STATES SECTION OF SECRE-
TARIAT.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OR DESIGNATION OF OF-
FICE.—The President is authorized to estab-
lish or designate within the Department of
Commerce an office to serve as the United
States Section of the Secretariat established
under article 30.6 of the USMCA.
(2) FUNCTIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE ASSIST-
ANCE.—The office established or designated
under paragraph (1), subject to the oversight
of the interagency group established under
section 411(c)(2), shall—
(A) carry out its functions within the Sec-
retariat to facilitate the operation of the
USMCA, including the operation of section D
of chapter 10 and chapter 31 of the USMCA;
and
(B) provide administrative assistance to—
(i) panels established under chapter 31 of
the USMCA, including under Annex 31–A (re-
lating to the Facility-Specific Rapid Re-
sponse Labor Mechanism);
(ii) technical advisers and experts provided
for under chapter 31 of the USMCA;
(iii) binational panels and extraordinary
challenge committees established under sec-
tion D of chapter 10 of the USMCA; and
(iv) binational panels and extraordinary
challenge committees established under
NAFTA for matters covered by article 34.1 of
the USMCA (relating to transition from
NAFTA).
(3) TREATMENT OF OFFICE UNDER FREEDOM
OF INFORMATION ACT.—The office established
or designated under paragraph (1) shall not
be considered an agency for purposes of sec-
tion 552 of title 5, United States Code.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated for
each fiscal year after fiscal year 2020 to the
Department of Commerce $2,000,000 for—
(1) the operations of the office established
or designated under subsection (a)(1); and
(2) the payment of the United States share
of the expenses of—
(A) panels established under chapter 31 of
the USMCA, including under Annex 31–A (re-
lating to the Facility-Specific Rapid Re-
sponse Labor Mechanism);
(B) binational panels and extraordinary
challenge committees established under sec-
tion D of chapter 10 of the USMCA; and
(C) binational panels and extraordinary
challenge committees established under
NAFTA for matters covered by article 34.1 of
the USMCA (relating to transition from
NAFTA).
(c) REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN EX-
PENSES.—If the Canadian Section or the
Mexican Section of the Secretariat provides
funds to the United States Section during
any fiscal year as reimbursement for ex-
penses in connection with dispute settlement
proceedings under section D of chapter 10 or
chapter 31 of the USMCA, or under chapter
19 of NAFTA, the United States Section
may, notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31,
United States Code, retain and use such
funds to carry out the functions described in
subsection (a)(2).
SEC. 106. TRADE REPRESENTATIVE AUTHORITY.
If a country (other than the United States)
that has signed the USMCA does not enact
implementing legislation, the Trade Rep-
resentative is authorized to enter into nego-
tiations with the other country that has
signed the USMCA to consider how the appli-
cable provisions of the USMCA can come
into force with respect to the United States
and that other country as promptly as pos-
sible.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12224 December 19, 2019
SEC. 107. EFFECTIVE DATE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Sections 1 through 3 and
this title (other than section 103(c)) shall
take effect on the date of the enactment of
this Act.
(b) PROCLAMATION AUTHORITY.—Section
103(c) shall take effect on the date on which
the USMCA enters into force.
TITLE II—CUSTOMS PROVISIONS
SEC. 201. EXCLUSION OF ORIGINATING GOODS OF
USMCA COUNTRIES FROM SPECIAL
AGRICULTURE SAFEGUARD AU-
THORITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 405(e) of the Uru-
guay Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C.
3602(e)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(e) EXCLUSION OF ORIGINATING GOODS OF
USMCA COUNTRIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall ex-
empt from any duty imposed under this sec-
tion any good that qualifies as an origi-
nating good under section 202 of the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implemen-
tation Act of a USMCA country with respect
to which preferential tariff treatment is pro-
vided under the USMCA.
‘‘(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the
terms ‘preferential tariff treatment’,
‘USMCA’, and ‘USMCA country’ have the
meanings given those terms in section 3 of
the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendment made by
subsection (a) shall—
(A) take effect on the date on which the
USMCA enters into force; and
(B) apply with respect to a good entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
for consumption, on or after that date.
(2) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA TREATMENT.—In
the case of a good entered for consumption,
or withdrawn from warehouse for consump-
tion, before the date on which the USMCA
enters into force—
(A) the amendment made by subsection (a)
to section 405(e) of the Uruguay Round
Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3602(e)) shall not
apply with respect to the good; and
(B) section 405(e) of such Act, as in effect
on the day before that date, shall continue
to apply on and after that date with respect
to the good.
SEC. 202. RULES OF ORIGIN.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AQUACULTURE.—The term ‘‘aqua-
culture’’ means the farming of aquatic orga-
nisms, including fish, molluscs, crustaceans,
other aquatic invertebrates, and aquatic
plants from seed stock such as eggs, fry,
fingerlings, or larvae, by intervention in the
rearing or growth processes to enhance pro-
duction such as regular stocking, feeding, or
protection from predators.
(2) CUSTOMS VALUATION AGREEMENT.—The
term ‘‘Customs Valuation Agreement’’
means the Agreement on Implementation of
Article VII of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade 1994 referred to in section
101(d)(8) of the Uruguay Round Agreements
Act (19 U.S.C. 3511(d)(8)).
(3) FUNGIBLE GOOD OR FUNGIBLE MATE-
RIAL.—The term ‘‘fungible good’’ or ‘‘fun-
gible material’’ means a good or material, as
the case may be, that is interchangeable
with another good or material for commer-
cial purposes and the properties of which are
essentially identical to such other good or
material.
(4) GOOD WHOLLY OBTAINED OR PRODUCED EN-
TIRELY IN THE TERRITORY OF ONE OR MORE
USMCA COUNTRIES.—The term ‘‘good wholly
obtained or produced entirely in the terri-
tory of one or more USMCA countries’’
means any of the following:
(A) A mineral good or other naturally oc-
curring substance extracted or taken from
the territory of one or more USMCA coun-
tries.
(B) A plant, plant good, vegetable, or fun-
gus grown, cultivated, harvested, picked, or
gathered in the territory of one or more
USMCA countries.
(C) A live animal born and raised in the
territory of one or more USMCA countries.
(D) A good obtained in the territory of one
or more USMCA countries from a live ani-
mal.
(E) An animal obtained by hunting, trap-
ping, fishing, gathering, or capturing in the
territory of one or more USMCA countries.
(F) A good obtained in the territory of one
or more USMCA countries from aquaculture.
(G) A fish, shellfish, or other marine life
taken from the sea, seabed, or subsoil out-
side the territory of one or more USMCA
countries and outside the territorial sea of
any country that is not a USMCA country
by—
(i) a vessel that is registered or recorded
with a USMCA country and flying the flag of
that country; or
(ii) a vessel that is documented under the
laws of the United States.
(H) A good produced on board a factory
ship from goods referred to in subparagraph
(G), if such factory ship—
(i) is registered or recorded with a USMCA
country and flies the flag of that country; or
(ii) is a vessel that is documented under
the laws of the United States.
(I) A good, other than a good referred to in
subparagraph (G), that is taken by a USMCA
country, or a person of a USMCA country,
from the seabed or subsoil outside the terri-
tory of a USMCA country, if that USMCA
country has the right to exploit such seabed
or subsoil.
(J) Waste and scrap derived from—
(i) production in the territory of one or
more USMCA countries; or
(ii) used goods collected in the territory of
one or more USMCA countries, if such goods
are fit only for the recovery of raw mate-
rials.
(K) A good produced in the territory of one
or more USMCA countries exclusively from
goods referred to in any of subparagraphs (A)
through (J), or from their derivatives, at any
stage of production.
(5) INDIRECT MATERIAL.—The term ‘‘indi-
rect material’’ means a material used or con-
sumed in the production, testing, or inspec-
tion of a good but not physically incor-
porated into the good, or a material used or
consumed in the maintenance of buildings or
the operation of equipment associated with
the production of a good, including—
(A) fuel and energy;
(B) tools, dies, and molds;
(C) spare parts and materials used or con-
sumed in the maintenance of equipment or
buildings;
(D) lubricants, greases, compounding ma-
terials, and other materials used or con-
sumed in production or to operate equipment
or buildings;
(E) gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing,
safety equipment, and supplies;
(F) equipment, devices, and supplies used
for testing or inspecting the good;
(G) catalysts and solvents; and
(H) any other material that is not incor-
porated into the good, if the use of the mate-
rial in the production of the good can reason-
ably be demonstrated to be a part of that
production.
(6) INTERMEDIATE MATERIAL.—The term
‘‘intermediate material’’ means a material
that is self-produced, used or consumed in
the production of a good, and designated as
an intermediate material pursuant to sub-
section (d)(9).
(7) MATERIAL.—The term ‘‘material’’
means a good that is used or consumed in
the production of another good and includes
a part or an ingredient.
(8) NET COST.—The term ‘‘net cost’’ means
total cost minus sales promotion, mar-
keting, and after-sales service costs, royal-
ties, shipping and packing costs, and non-
allowable interest costs that are included in
the total cost.
(9) NET COST OF A GOOD.—The term ‘‘net
cost of a good’’ means the net cost that can
be reasonably allocated to a good using one
of the methods set forth in subsection (d)(7).
(10) NONALLOWABLE INTEREST COSTS.—The
term ‘‘nonallowable interest costs’’ means
interest costs incurred by a producer that
exceed 700 basis points above the applicable
official interest rate for comparable matu-
rities of the country in which the producer is
located.
(11) NONORIGINATING GOOD OR NONORIGI-
NATING MATERIAL.—The term ‘‘nonorigi-
nating good’’ or ‘‘nonoriginating material’’
means a good or material, as the case may
be, that does not qualify as originating
under this section.
(12) ORIGINATING GOOD; ORIGINATING MATE-
RIAL.—The term ‘‘originating good’’ or ‘‘orig-
inating material’’ means a good or material,
as the case may be, that qualifies as origi-
nating under this section.
(13) PACKAGING MATERIALS AND CON-
TAINERS.—The term ‘‘packaging materials
and containers’’ means materials and con-
tainers in which a good is packaged for retail
sale.
(14) PACKING MATERIALS AND CONTAINERS.—
The term ‘‘packing materials and con-
tainers’’ means materials and containers
that are used to protect a good during trans-
portation.
(15) PRODUCER.—The term ‘‘producer’’
means a person who engages in the produc-
tion of a good.
(16) PRODUCTION.—The term ‘‘production’’
means—
(A) growing, cultivating, raising, mining,
harvesting, fishing, trapping, hunting, cap-
turing, breeding, extracting, manufacturing,
processing, or assembling a good; or
(B) the farming of aquatic organisms
through aquaculture.
(17) REASONABLY ALLOCATE.—The term
‘‘reasonably allocate’’ means to apportion in
a manner appropriate to the circumstances.
(18) RECOVERED MATERIAL.—The term ‘‘re-
covered material’’ means a material in the
form of individual parts that are the result
of—
(A) the disassembly of a used good into in-
dividual parts; and
(B) the cleaning, inspecting, testing, or
other processing that is necessary for im-
provement to sound working condition of
such individual parts.
(19) REMANUFACTURED GOOD.—The term
‘‘remanufactured good’’ means a good classi-
fied in the HTS under any of chapters 84
through 90 or under heading 9402, other than
a good classified under heading 8418, 8509,
8510, 8516, or 8703 or subheading 8414.51,
8450.11, 8450.12, 8508.11, or 8517.11, that—
(A) is entirely or partially composed of re-
covered materials;
(B) has a life expectancy similar to, and
performs in a manner that is the same as or
similar to, such a good when new; and
(C) has a factory warranty similar to that
applicable to such a good when new.
(20) ROYALTIES.—The term ‘‘royalties’’
means payments of any kind, including pay-
ments under technical assistance or similar
agreements, made as consideration for the
use of, or right to use, a copyright, literary,
artistic, or scientific work, patent, trade-
mark, design, model, plan, or secret formula
or secret process, excluding payments under
technical assistance or similar agreements
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12225
December 19, 2019
that can be related to a specific service such
as—
(A) personnel training, without regard to
where the training is performed; or
(B) if performed in the territory of one or
more USMCA countries, engineering, tool-
ing, die-setting, software design and similar
computer services, or other services.
(21) SALES PROMOTION, MARKETING, AND
AFTER-SALES SERVICE COSTS.—The term
‘‘sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales
service costs’’ means the costs related to
sales promotion, marketing, and after-sales
service for the following:
(A) Sales and marketing promotion, media
advertising, advertising and market re-
search, promotional and demonstration ma-
terials, exhibits, sales conferences, trade
shows, conventions, banners, marketing dis-
plays, free samples, sales, marketing, and
after-sales service literature (product bro-
chures, catalogs, technical literature, price
lists, service manuals, and sales aid informa-
tion), establishment and protection of logos
and trademarks, sponsorships, wholesale and
retail charges, and entertainment.
(B) Sales and marketing incentives, con-
sumer, retailer, or wholesaler rebates, and
merchandise incentives.
(C) Salaries and wages, sales commissions,
bonuses, benefits (such as medical, insur-
ance, and pension benefits), traveling and
living expenses, and membership and profes-
sional fees for sales promotion, marketing,
and after-sales service personnel.
(D) Product liability insurance.
(E) Rent and depreciation of sales pro-
motion, marketing, and after-sales service
offices and distribution centers.
(F) Payments by the producer to other per-
sons for warranty repairs.
(G) If the costs are identified separately for
sales promotion, marketing, or after-sales
service of goods on the financial statements
or cost accounts of the producer, the fol-
lowing:
(i) Property insurance premiums, taxes,
utilities, and repair and maintenance of sales
promotion, marketing, and after-sales serv-
ice offices and distribution centers.
(ii) Recruiting and training of sales pro-
motion, marketing, and after-sales service
personnel, and after-sales training of cus-
tomers’ employees.
(iii) Office supplies for sales promotion,
marketing, and after-sales service of goods.
(iv) Telephone, mail, and other commu-
nications.
(22) SELF-PRODUCED MATERIAL.—The term
‘‘self-produced material’’ means a material
that is produced by the producer of a good
and used in the production of that good.
(23) SHIPPING AND PACKING COSTS.—The
term ‘‘shipping and packing costs’’ means
the costs incurred in packing a good for ship-
ment and shipping the good from the point of
direct shipment to the buyer, excluding the
costs of preparing and packaging the good
for retail sale.
(24) TERRITORY.—The term ‘‘territory’’,
with respect to a USMCA country, has the
meaning given that term in section C of
chapter 1 of the USMCA.
(25) TOTAL COST.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘total cost’’—
(i) means all product costs, period costs,
and other costs for a good incurred in the
territory of one or more USMCA countries;
and
(ii) does not include—
(I) profits that are earned by the producer
of the good, regardless of whether the costs
are retained by the producer or paid out to
other persons as dividends; or
(II) taxes paid on those profits, including
capital gains taxes.
(B) OTHER DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) OTHER COSTS.—The term ‘‘other costs’’
means all costs recorded on the books of the
producer that are not product costs or period
costs, such as interest.
(ii) PERIOD COSTS.—The term ‘‘period
costs’’ means costs, other than product
costs, that are expensed in the period in
which they are incurred, such as selling ex-
penses and general and administrative ex-
penses.
(iii) PRODUCT COSTS.—The term ‘‘product
costs’’ means costs that are associated with
the production of a good, including the value
of materials, direct labor costs, and direct
overhead.
(26) TRANSACTION VALUE.—The term ‘‘trans-
action value’’ means the price—
(A) actually paid or payable for a good or
material with respect to a transaction of a
producer; and
(B) adjusted in accordance with the prin-
ciples set forth in paragraphs 1, 3, and 4 of
article 8 of the Customs Valuation Agree-
ment.
(27) USMCA COUNTRY.—The term ‘‘USMCA
country’’ means the United States, Canada,
or Mexico for such time as the USMCA is in
force with respect to Canada or Mexico, and
the United States applies the USMCA to
Canada or Mexico.
(28) VALUE.—The term ‘‘value’’ means the
value of a good or material for purposes of
calculating customs duties or applying this
section.
(b) APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION.—In
this section:
(1) TARIFF CLASSIFICATION.—The basis for
any tariff classification is the HTS.
(2) REFERENCE TO HTS.—Whenever in this
section there is a reference to a chapter,
heading, or subheading, that reference shall
be a reference to a chapter, heading, or sub-
heading of the HTS.
(3) COST OR VALUE.—Any cost or value re-
ferred to in this section with respect to a
good shall be recorded and maintained in ac-
cordance with the generally accepted ac-
counting principles applicable in the terri-
tory of the USMCA country in which the
good is produced.
(c) ORIGINATING GOODS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this Act
and for purposes of implementing the pref-
erential tariff treatment provided for under
the USMCA, except as otherwise provided in
this section, a good is an originating good
if—
(A) the good is a good wholly obtained or
produced entirely in the territory of one or
more USMCA countries;
(B) the good is produced entirely in the
territory of one or more USMCA countries
using nonoriginating materials, if the good
satisfies all applicable requirements set
forth in Annex 4–B of the USMCA; or
(C) the good is produced entirely in the ter-
ritory of one or more USMCA countries, ex-
clusively from originating materials;
(D) except for a good provided for under
any of chapters 61 through 63—
(i) the good is produced entirely in the ter-
ritory of one or more USMCA countries;
(ii) one or more of the nonoriginating ma-
terials provided for as parts under the HTS
and used in the production of the good do not
satisfy the requirements set forth in Annex
4–B of the USMCA because—
(I) both the good and its materials are clas-
sified under the same subheading or under
the same heading that is not further sub-
divided into subheadings; or
(II) the good was imported into the terri-
tory of a USMCA country in an unassembled
form or a disassembled form but was classi-
fied as an assembled good pursuant to rule
2(a) of the General Rules of Interpretation of
the HTS; and
(iii) the regional value content of the good
is not less than 60 percent if the transaction
value method is used, or not less than 50 per-
cent if the net cost method is used and the
good satisfies all other applicable require-
ments of this section; or
(E) the good itself, as imported, is listed in
table 2.10.1 of the USMCA and is imported
into the territory of the United States from
the territory of a USMCA country.
(2) REMANUFACTURED GOODS.—For purposes
of determining whether a remanufactured
good is an originating good, a recovered ma-
terial derived in the territory of one or more
USMCA countries shall be treated as origi-
nating if the recovered material is used or
consumed in the production of, and incor-
porated into, the remanufactured good.
(d) REGIONAL VALUE CONTENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (5), for purposes of subparagraphs
(B) and (D) of subsection (c)(1), the regional
value content of a good shall be calculated,
at the choice of the importer, exporter, or
producer of the good, on the basis of—
(A) the transaction value method described
in paragraph (2); or
(B) the net cost method described in para-
graph (3).
(2) TRANSACTION VALUE METHOD.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—An importer, exporter, or
producer of a good may calculate the re-
gional value content of the good on the basis
of the following transaction value method:
TV¥VNM
RVC = ————— × 100
TV
(B) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) RVC.—The term ‘‘RVC’’ means the re-
gional value content of the good, expressed
as a percentage.
(ii) TV.—The term ‘‘TV’’ means the trans-
action value of the good, adjusted to exclude
any costs incurred in the international ship-
ment of the good.
(iii) VNM.—The term ‘‘VNM’’ means the
value of nonoriginating materials used by
the producer in the production of the good.
(3) NET COST METHOD.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—An importer, exporter, or
producer of a good may calculate the re-
gional value content of the good on the basis
of the following net cost method:
NC¥VNM
RVC = ————— × 100
NC
(B) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) NC.—The term ‘‘NC’’ means the net cost
of the good.
(ii) RVC.—The term ‘‘RVC’’ means the re-
gional value content of the good, expressed
as a percentage.
(iii) VNM.—The term ‘‘VNM’’ means the
value of nonoriginating materials used by
the producer in the production of the good.
(4) VALUE OF NONORIGINATING MATERIALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The value of nonorigi-
nating materials used by the producer in the
production of a good shall not, for purposes
of calculating the regional value content of
the good under paragraph (2) or (3), include
the value of nonoriginating materials used
or consumed to produce originating mate-
rials that are subsequently used or consumed
in the production of the good.
(B) SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN COMPO-
NENTS.—The following components of the
value of nonoriginating materials used by
the producer in the production of a good may
be counted as originating content for pur-
poses of determining whether the good meets
the regional value content requirement set
forth in Annex 4–B of the USMCA:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12226 December 19, 2019
(i) The value of processing the nonorigi-
nating materials undertaken in the territory
of one or more USMCA countries.
(ii) The value of any originating materials
used or consumed in the production of the
nonoriginating materials undertaken in the
territory of one or more USMCA countries.
(5) NET COST METHOD REQUIRED IN CERTAIN
CASES.—An importer, exporter, or producer
of a good shall calculate the regional value
content of the good solely on the basis of the
net cost method described in paragraph (3) if
the rule for the good set forth in Annex 4–B
of the USMCA includes a regional value con-
tent requirement not based on the trans-
action value method described in paragraph
(2).
(6) NET COST METHOD ALLOWED FOR ADJUST-
MENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If an importer, exporter,
or producer of a good calculates the regional
value content of the good on the basis of the
transaction value method described in para-
graph (2) and a USMCA country subse-
quently notifies the importer, exporter, or
producer, during the course of a verification
conducted in accordance with chapter 5 or 6
of the USMCA, that the transaction value of
the good or the value of any material used in
the production of the good must be adjusted
or is unacceptable under article 1 of the Cus-
toms Valuation Agreement, the importer,
exporter, or producer may calculate the re-
gional value content of the good on the basis
of the net cost method.
(B) REVIEW OF ADJUSTMENT.—Nothing in
subparagraph (A) shall be construed to pre-
vent any review or appeal available in ac-
cordance with article 5.15 of the USMCA
with respect to an adjustment to or a rejec-
tion of—
(i) the transaction value of a good; or
(ii) the value of any material used in the
production of a good.
(7) CALCULATING NET COST.—The producer
of a good may, consistent with regulations
implementing this section, calculate the net
cost of the good under paragraph (3) by—
(A) calculating the total cost incurred with
respect to all goods produced by that pro-
ducer, subtracting any sales promotion, mar-
keting, and after-sales services costs, royal-
ties, shipping and packing costs, and non-
allowable interest costs that are included in
the total cost of those goods, and then rea-
sonably allocating the resulting net cost of
those goods to the good;
(B) calculating the total cost incurred with
respect to all goods produced by that pro-
ducer, reasonably allocating the total cost to
the good, and subtracting any sales pro-
motion, marketing, and after-sales service
costs, royalties, shipping and packing costs,
and nonallowable interest costs, that are in-
cluded in the portion of the total cost allo-
cated to the good; or
(C) reasonably allocating each cost that is
part of the total cost incurred with respect
to the good so that the aggregate of those
costs does not include any sales promotion,
marketing, and after-sales service costs, roy-
alties, shipping and packing costs, and non-
allowable interest costs.
(8) VALUE OF MATERIALS USED IN PRODUC-
TION.—For purposes of calculating the re-
gional value content of a good under this
subsection, applying the de minimis rules
under subsection (f), and calculating the
value of nonoriginating components in a set
under subsection (m), the value of a material
used in the production of a good is—
(A) in the case of a material that is im-
ported by the producer of the good, the
transaction value of the material at the time
of importation, including the costs incurred
in the international shipment of the mate-
rial;
(B) in the case of a material acquired in
the territory in which the good is produced—
(i) the price paid or payable by the pro-
ducer in the USMCA country where the pro-
ducer is located;
(ii) the value as determined under subpara-
graph (A), as set forth in regulations pre-
scribed by the Secretary of the Treasury pro-
viding for the application of transaction
value in the absence of an importation by
the producer; or
(iii) the earliest ascertainable price paid or
payable in the territory of the country; or
(C) in the case of a self-produced material,
the sum of—
(i) all expenses incurred in the production
of the material, including general expenses;
and
(ii) an amount for profit equivalent to the
profit added in the normal course of trade or
equal to the profit that is usually reflected
in the sale of goods of the same class or kind
as the material.
(9) INTERMEDIATE MATERIALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any self-produced mate-
rial that is used in the production of a good
may be designated by the producer of the
good as an intermediate material for pur-
poses of calculating the regional value con-
tent of the good under paragraph (2) or (3).
(B) MATERIALS USED IN PRODUCTION OF IN-
TERMEDIATE MATERIALS.—If a self-produced
material is designated as an intermediate
material under subparagraph (A) for pur-
poses of calculating a regional value content
requirement, no other self-produced material
subject to a regional value content require-
ment used or consumed in the production of
that intermediate material may be des-
ignated by the producer as an intermediate
material.
(10) FURTHER ADJUSTMENTS TO VALUE OF
MATERIALS.—The following expenses, if in-
cluded in the value of a nonoriginating mate-
rial calculated under paragraph (8), may be
deducted from the value of the nonorigi-
nating material:
(A) The costs of freight, insurance, pack-
ing, and all other costs incurred in trans-
porting the material to the location of the
producer.
(B) Duties, taxes, and customs brokerage
fees on the material paid in the territory of
one or more USMCA countries, other than
duties or taxes that are waived, refunded, re-
fundable, or otherwise recoverable, including
credit against duty or tax paid or payable.
(C) The cost of waste and spoilage result-
ing from the use of the material in the pro-
duction of the good, less the value of renew-
able scrap or byproducts.
(e) ACCUMULATION.—
(1) PRODUCERS.—A good that is produced in
the territory of one or more USMCA coun-
tries, by one or more producers, is an origi-
nating good if the good satisfies the require-
ments of subsection (c) and all other applica-
ble requirements of this section.
(2) ORIGINATING MATERIALS USED IN PRODUC-
TION OF GOODS OF A USMCA COUNTRY.—Origi-
nating materials from the territory of one or
more USMCA countries that are used in the
production of a good in the territory of an-
other USMCA country shall be considered to
originate in the territory of such other
USMCA country.
(3) PRODUCTION UNDERTAKEN ON NONORIGI-
NATING MATERIALS USED IN THE PRODUCTION
OF GOODS.—In determining whether a good is
an originating good under this section, pro-
duction undertaken on nonoriginating mate-
rial in the territory of one or more USMCA
countries by one or more producers shall
contribute to the originating status of the
good, regardless of whether that production
is sufficient to confer originating status to
the nonoriginating material.
(f) DE MINIMIS AMOUNTS OF NONORIGINATING
MATERIALS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraphs (2) through (4), a good that does
not undergo a change in tariff classification
or satisfy a regional value content require-
ment set forth in Annex 4–B of the USMCA is
an originating good if—
(A) the value of all nonoriginating mate-
rials that are used in the production of the
good, and do not undergo the applicable
change in tariff classification set forth in
Annex 4–B of the USMCA—
(i) does not exceed 10 percent of the trans-
action value of the good, adjusted to exclude
any costs incurred in the international ship-
ment of the good; or
(ii) does not exceed 10 percent of the total
cost of the good;
(B) the good meets all other applicable re-
quirements of this section; and
(C) the value of such nonoriginating mate-
rials is included in the value of nonorigi-
nating materials for any applicable regional
value content requirement for the good.
(2) EXCEPTIONS FOR DAIRY AND OTHER PROD-
UCTS.—Paragraph (1) does not apply to the
following:
(A) A nonoriginating material of headings
0401 through 0406, or a nonoriginating dairy
preparation containing over 10 percent by
dry weight of milk solids of subheading
1901.90 or 2106.90, used or consumed in the
production of a good of headings 0401
through 0406.
(B) A nonoriginating material of headings
0401 through 0406, or nonoriginating dairy
preparation containing over 10 percent by
dry weight of milk solids of subheading
1901.90 or 2106.90, used or consumed in the
production of any of the following goods:
(i) Infant preparations containing over 10
percent by dry weight of milk solids, of sub-
heading 1901.10.
(ii) Mixes and doughs containing over 25
percent by dry weight of butterfat, not put
up for retail sale, of subheading 1901.20.
(iii) A dairy preparation containing over 10
percent by dry weight of milk solids, of sub-
heading 1901.90 or 2106.90.
(iv) A good of heading 2105.
(v) Beverages containing milk of sub-
heading 2202.90.
(vi) Animal feeds containing over 10 per-
cent by dry weight of milk solids of sub-
heading 2309.90.
(C) A nonoriginating material of heading
0805, or any of subheadings 2009.11 through
2009.39, used or consumed in the production
of a good of subheadings 2009.11 through
2009.39, or a fruit or vegetable juice of any
single fruit or vegetable, fortified with min-
erals or vitamins, concentrated or
unconcentrated, of subheading 2106.90 or
2202.90.
(D) A nonoriginating material of chapter 9
used or consumed in the production of in-
stant coffee, not flavored, of subheading
2101.11.
(E) A nonoriginating material of chapter 15
used or consumed in the production of a good
of heading 1507, 1508, 1512, 1514, or 1515.
(F) A nonoriginating material of heading
1701 used or consumed in the production of a
good of any of headings 1701 through 1703.
(G) A nonoriginating material of chapter 17
or heading 1805 used in the production of a
good of subheading 1806.10.
(H) Nonoriginating peaches, pears, or apri-
cots of chapter 8 or 20, used in the production
of a good of heading 2008.
(I) A nonoriginating single juice ingredient
of heading 2009 used or consumed in the pro-
duction of a good of—
(i) subheading 2009.90, or tariff item
2106.90.54 (concentrated mixtures of fruit or
vegetable juice, fortified with minerals or vi-
tamins); or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12227
December 19, 2019
(ii) tariff item 2202.99.37 (mixtures of fruit
or vegetable juices, fortified with minerals
or vitamins).
(J) A nonoriginating material of any of
headings 2203 through 2208 used or consumed
in the production of a good provided for
under heading 2207 or 2208.
(3) GOODS PROVIDED FOR UNDER CHAPTERS 1
THROUGH 27.—Paragraph (1) does not apply to
a nonoriginating material used or consumed
in the production of a good provided for in
chapters 1 through 27 unless the nonorigi-
nating material is provided for in a different
subheading than the subheading of the good
for which origin is being determined.
(4) TEXTILE OR APPAREL GOODS.—
(A) GOODS CLASSIFIED UNDER CHAPTERS 50
THROUGH 60.—Except as provided in subpara-
graph (C), a textile or apparel good provided
for in any of chapters 50 through 60 or head-
ing 9619 that is not an originating good be-
cause certain nonoriginating materials used
in the production of the good do not undergo
an applicable change in tariff classification
set forth in Annex 4–B of the USMCA, shall
be considered to be an originating good if the
total weight of all such materials, including
elastomeric yarns, is not more than 10 per-
cent of the total weight of the good and the
good meets all other applicable requirements
of this section.
(B) GOODS CLASSIFIED UNDER CHAPTERS 61
THROUGH 63.—Except as provided in subpara-
graph (C), a textile or apparel good provided
for in chapter 61, 62, or 63 that is not an orig-
inating good because certain fibers or yarns
used in the production of the component of
the good that determines the tariff classi-
fication of the good do not undergo an appli-
cable change in tariff classification set forth
in Annex 4–B of the USMCA shall be consid-
ered to be an originating good if the total
weight of all such fibers or yarns in the com-
ponent, including elastomeric yarns, is not
more than 10 percent of the total weight of
the component and the good meets all other
applicable requirements of this section.
(C) GOODS CONTAINING NONORIGINATING
ELASTOMERIC YARNS.—
(i) GOODS CLASSIFIED UNDER CHAPTERS 50
THROUGH 60 OR HEADING 9619 .—A textile or ap-
parel good described in subparagraph (A)
containing nonoriginating elastomeric yarns
shall be considered to be an originating good
only if the nonoriginating elastomeric yarns
contained in the good do not exceed 7 per-
cent of the total weight of the good.
(ii) GOODS CLASSIFIED UNDER CHAPTERS 61
THROUGH 63.—A textile or apparel good de-
scribed in subparagraph (B) containing non-
originating elastomeric yarns shall be con-
sidered to be an originating good only if the
nonoriginating elastomeric yarns contained
in the component of the good that deter-
mines the tariff classification of the good do
not exceed 7 percent of the total weight of
the good.
(g) FUNGIBLE GOODS AND MATERIALS.—
(1) FUNGIBLE MATERIALS USED IN PRODUC-
TION.—Subject to paragraph (3), if origi-
nating and nonoriginating fungible mate-
rials are used or consumed in the production
of a good, the determination of whether the
materials are originating may be made on
the basis of any of the inventory manage-
ment methods set forth in regulations imple-
menting this section.
(2) FUNGIBLE GOODS COMMINGLED AND EX-
PORTED.—Subject to paragraph (3), if origi-
nating and nonoriginating fungible goods are
commingled and exported in the same form,
the determination of whether the goods are
originating may be made on the basis of any
of the inventory management methods set
forth in regulations implementing this sec-
tion.
(3) USE OF INVENTORY MANAGEMENT METH-
OD.—A person that selects an inventory man-
agement method for purposes of paragraph
(1) or (2) shall use that inventory manage-
ment method throughout the fiscal year of
the person.
(h) ACCESSORIES, SPARE PARTS, TOOLS, AND
INSTRUCTIONAL OR OTHER INFORMATION MATE-
RIALS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
accessories, spare parts, tools, or instruc-
tional or other information materials deliv-
ered with a good shall—
(A) be treated as originating if the good is
an originating good;
(B) be disregarded in determining whether
a good is a good wholly obtained or produced
entirely in the territory of one or more
USMCA countries or satisfies a process or
change in tariff classification set forth in
Annex 4–B of the USMCA; and
(C) be taken into account as originating or
nonoriginating materials, as the case may
be, in calculating any applicable regional
value content of the good set forth in Annex
4–B of the USMCA.
(2) CONDITIONS.—Paragraph (1) shall apply
only if—
(A) the accessories, spare parts, tools, or
instructional or other information materials
are classified with and delivered with, but
not invoiced separately from, the good; and
(B) the types, quantities, and value of the
accessories, spare parts, tools, or instruc-
tional or other information materials are
customary for the good.
(i) PACKAGING MATERIALS AND CONTAINERS
FOR RETAIL SALE.—Packaging materials and
containers in which a good is packaged for
retail sale, if classified with the good, shall
be disregarded in determining whether all of
the nonoriginating materials used in the pro-
duction of the good undergo the applicable
process or change in tariff classification re-
quirement set forth in Annex 4–B of the
USMCA, or whether the good is a good whol-
ly obtained or produced entirely in the terri-
tory of one or more USMCA countries. If the
good is subject to a regional value content
requirement set forth in that Annex, the
value of such packaging materials and con-
tainers shall be taken into account as origi-
nating or nonoriginating materials, as the
case may be, in calculating the regional
value content of the good.
(j) PACKING MATERIALS AND CONTAINERS
FOR SHIPMENT.—Packing materials and con-
tainers for shipment shall be disregarded in
determining whether a good is an originating
good.
(k) INDIRECT MATERIALS.—An indirect ma-
terial shall be treated as an originating ma-
terial without regard to where it is produced.
(l) TRANSIT AND TRANSSHIPMENT.—A good
that has undergone production necessary to
qualify as an originating good under sub-
section (c) shall not be considered to be an
originating good if, subsequent to that pro-
duction, the good—
(1) undergoes further production or any
other operation outside the territory of a
USMCA country, other than—
(A) unloading, reloading, separation from a
bulk shipment, storing, labeling, or marking,
as required by a USMCA country; or
(B) any other operation necessary to pre-
serve the good in good condition or to trans-
port the good to the territory of the import-
ing USMCA country; or
(2) does not remain under the control of
customs authorities in a country other than
a USMCA country.
(m) GOODS CLASSIFIABLE AS GOODS PUT UP
IN SETS.—
(1) GOODS OTHER THAN TEXTILE OR APPAREL
GOODS.—Notwithstanding the rules set forth
in Annex 4–B of the USMCA, goods classifi-
able as goods put up in sets for retail sale as
provided for in rule 3 of the General Rule of
Interpretation of the HTS shall not be con-
sidered to be originating goods unless—
(A) each of the goods in the set is an origi-
nating good; or
(B) the total value of the nonoriginating
goods in the set does not exceed 10 percent of
the value of the set.
(2) TEXTILE OR APPAREL GOODS.—Notwith-
standing the rules set forth in Annex 4–B of
the USMCA, goods classifiable as goods put
up in sets for retail sale as provided for in
rule 3 of the General Rule of Interpretation
of the HTS shall not be considered to be orig-
inating goods unless—
(A) each of the goods in the set is an origi-
nating good; or
(B) the total value of the nonoriginating
goods in the set does not exceed 10 percent of
the value of the set.
(n) NONQUALIFYING OPERATIONS.—A good
shall not be considered to be an originating
good merely by reason of—
(1) mere dilution with water or another
substance that does not materially alter the
characteristics of the good; or
(2) any production or pricing practice with
respect to which it may be demonstrated, by
a preponderance of the evidence, that the ob-
ject of the practice was to circumvent this
section.
(o) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—This section shall—
(A) take effect on the date on which the
USMCA enters into force; and
(B) apply with respect to a good entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
for consumption, on or after that date.
(2) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA TREATMENT.—
Section 202 of the North American Free
Trade Agreement Implementation Act (19
U.S.C. 3332), as in effect on the day before
the date on which the USMCA enters into
force, shall continue to apply on and after
that date with respect to a good entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
for consumption, before that date.
SEC. 202A. SPECIAL RULES FOR AUTOMOTIVE
GOODS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ALTERNATIVE STAGING REGIME.—The
term ‘‘alternative staging regime’’ means
the application, pursuant to subsection (d),
of the requirements of article 8 of the auto-
motive appendix to the production of cov-
ered vehicles to allow producers of such vehi-
cles to bring such production into compli-
ance with the requirements of articles 2
through 7 of that appendix.
(2) ALTERNATIVE STAGING REGIME PERIOD.—
The term ‘‘alternative staging regime pe-
riod’’ means the period during which the al-
ternative staging regime is in effect.
(3) AUTOMOTIVE APPENDIX.—The term
‘‘automotive appendix’’ means the Appendix
to Annex 4–B of the USMCA (relating to the
product-specific rules of origin for auto-
motive goods).
(4) AUTOMOTIVE GOOD.—The term ‘‘auto-
motive good’’ means—
(A) a covered vehicle; or
(B) a part, component, or material listed in
table A.1, A.2, B, C, D, or E of the auto-
motive appendix.
(5) AUTOMOTIVE RULES OF ORIGIN.—The
term ‘‘automotive rules of origin’’ means the
rules of origin for automotive goods set forth
in the automotive appendix.
(6) COMMISSIONER.—The term ‘‘Commis-
sioner’’ means the Commissioner of U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection.
(7) COVERED VEHICLE.—The term ‘‘covered
vehicle’’ means a passenger vehicle, light
truck, or heavy truck.
(8) INTERAGENCY COMMITTEE.—The term
‘‘interagency committee’’ means the inter-
agency committee established under sub-
section (b)(1).
(9) PASSENGER VEHICLE; LIGHT TRUCK;
HEAVY TRUCK.—The terms ‘‘passenger vehi-
cle’’, ‘‘light truck’’, and ‘‘heavy truck’’ have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12228 December 19, 2019
the meanings given those terms in article 1
of the automotive appendix.
(10) USMCA COUNTRY.—The term ‘‘USMCA
country’’ means the United States, Canada,
or Mexico for such time as the USMCA is in
force with respect to Canada or Mexico, and
the United States applies the USMCA to
Canada or Mexico.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERAGENCY COM-
MITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall establish an interagency
committee—
(A) to provide advice, as appropriate, on
the implementation, enforcement, and modi-
fication of provisions of the USMCA that re-
late to automotive goods, including the al-
ternative staging regime; and
(B) to review the operation of the USMCA
with respect to trade in automotive goods,
including—
(i) the economic effects of the automotive
rules of origin on the United States econ-
omy, workers, and consumers; and
(ii) the impact of new technology on such
rules of origin.
(2) MEMBERS.—The members of the inter-
agency committee shall be the following:
(A) The Trade Representative.
(B) The Secretary of Commerce.
(C) The Commissioner.
(D) The Secretary of Labor.
(E) The Chair of the International Trade
Commission.
(F) Any other members determined to be
necessary by the Trade Representative.
(3) CHAIR.—The chair of the interagency
committee shall be the Trade Representa-
tive.
(4) USE OF INFORMATION.—
(A) INFORMATION SHARING.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, the
members of the interagency committee may
exchange information for purposes of car-
rying out this section.
(B) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.—The
interagency committee and any Federal
agency represented on the interagency com-
mittee may not disclose to the public any
confidential documents or information re-
ceived in the course of carrying out this sec-
tion, except information aggregated to pre-
serve confidentiality and used in the reports
described in subsection (g).
(c) CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) CERTIFICATION RELATING TO LABOR
VALUE CONTENT REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A covered vehicle shall be
eligible for preferential tariff treatment only
if the producer of the covered vehicle—
(i) provides a certification to the Commis-
sioner that the production of covered vehi-
cles by the producer meets the labor value
content requirements, including the high-
wage material and manufacturing expendi-
tures, high-wage technology expenditures,
and high-wage assembly expenditures, as set
forth in article 7 of the automotive appendix
or, if the producer is subject to the alter-
native staging regime, articles 7 and 8 of
that appendix, and includes the calculations
of the producer related to the labor value
content requirements; and
(ii) has information on record to support
those calculations.
(B) IMPLEMENTATION.—For purposes of
meeting the requirements under subpara-
graph (A)—
(i) the Secretary of Labor, in consultation
with the Commissioner, shall ensure that the
certification of a producer under subpara-
graph (A)(i) does not contain omissions or er-
rors before the certification is considered
properly filed; and
(ii) a calculation described in subparagraph
(A)(i) based on a producer’s preceding fiscal
or calendar year is valid for the producer’s
subsequent fiscal or calendar year, as the
case may be, as set forth in articles 7 and 8
of the automotive appendix.
(C) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—The Secretary
of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of Labor, shall prescribe regula-
tions to carry out this paragraph, including
regulations setting forth the procedures and
requirements for a producer of covered vehi-
cles to establish that the producer meets the
labor value content requirements for pref-
erential tariff treatment.
(2) CERTIFICATION RELATING TO STEEL AND
ALUMINUM PURCHASE REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A covered vehicle shall be
eligible for preferential tariff treatment only
if the producer of the covered vehicle—
(i) provides a certification to the Commis-
sioner that the production of covered vehi-
cles by the producer meets the steel and alu-
minum purchase requirements set forth in
article 6 of the automotive appendix or, if
the producer is subject to the alternative
staging regime, articles 6 and 8 of that ap-
pendix; and
(ii) has information on record to support
the calculations relied on for the certifi-
cation.
(B) IMPLEMENTATION.—For purposes of
meeting the requirements under subpara-
graph (A)—
(i) the Commissioner shall ensure that the
certification of a producer under subpara-
graph (A)(i) does not contain omissions or er-
rors before the certification is considered
properly filed; and
(ii) a calculation described in subparagraph
(A)(ii) based on a producer’s preceding fiscal
or calendar year is valid for the producer’s
subsequent fiscal or calendar year, as the
case may be, as set forth in articles 6 and 8
of the automotive appendix.
(C) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—The Secretary
of the Treasury shall prescribe regulations
to carry out this paragraph, including regu-
lations setting forth the procedures and re-
quirements for a producer of covered vehi-
cles to establish that the producer meets the
steel and aluminum purchase requirements
for preferential tariff treatment.
(d) ALTERNATIVE STAGING REGIME.—
(1) PUBLICATION OF REQUIREMENTS.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Trade Representative,
in consultation with the interagency com-
mittee, shall publish in the Federal Register
requirements, procedures, and guidance re-
quired to implement the alternative staging
regime, including with respect to the fol-
lowing:
(A) The procedures, calculation method-
ology, timeframe, specific regional value
content thresholds, and other minimum re-
quirements, consistent with article 8 of the
automotive appendix, with which a producer
of covered vehicles subject to the alternative
staging regime is required to comply during
the alternative staging regime period for
such vehicles to be eligible for preferential
tariff treatment pursuant to the alternative
staging regime.
(B) The date by which requests for the al-
ternative staging regime are required to be
submitted.
(C) The information a producer of pas-
senger vehicles or light trucks is required to
provide, in the producer’s request to use the
alternative staging regime, to demonstrate
the actions that the producer will take to be
prepared to meet all the requirements set
forth in articles 2 through 7 of the auto-
motive appendix after the alternative stag-
ing regime period has expired, including the
following:
(i) A statement identifying which of the re-
quirements set forth in articles 2 through 7
of the automotive appendix that the pro-
ducer expects it will be unable to meet upon
entry into force of the USMCA based on cur-
rent business plans.
(ii) A statement indicating whether the
passenger vehicles or light trucks for which
the producer seeks to use the alternative
staging regime account for 10 percent or less,
or more than 10 percent, of the total produc-
tion of passenger vehicles or light trucks, as
the case may be, in USMCA countries by the
producer during the 12-month period pre-
ceding the date on which the USMCA enters
into force, or the average of such production
during the 36-month period preceding that
date, whichever is greater.
(iii) In the case of a producer that seeks to
use the alternative staging regime for more
than 10 percent of the producer’s total pro-
duction of passenger vehicles or light trucks,
as the case may be, in USMCA countries—
(I) a detailed and credible plan describing
with specificity the actions the producer in-
tends to take to bring production of the pas-
senger vehicles or light trucks, as the case
may be, into compliance with the require-
ments set forth in articles 2 through 7 of the
automotive appendix after the alternative
staging regime period expires; and
(II) a statement indicating the time period
for which the producer is requesting to use
the alternative staging regime, if that time
period is greater than 5 years after the
USMCA enters into force.
(D) The procedures for accepting and re-
viewing requests for the alternative staging
regime, including that the Trade Representa-
tive will—
(i) notify a producer of any deficiencies in
the request of the producer that would result
in a denial of the request not later than 30
days after the request is submitted; and
(ii) provide producers the opportunity to
submit supplemental information.
(E) The criteria the Trade Representative,
in consultation with the interagency com-
mittee, will consider when determining
whether to approve a request for the alter-
native staging regime. Such criteria shall
only include elements necessary for the pro-
ducer to demonstrate the producer’s ability
to meet the requirements specified in sub-
paragraphs (A) and (B). The criteria shall
also describe the information to meet those
requirements in sufficient detail to allow the
producer to identify the information nec-
essary to complete a request for the alter-
native staging regime.
(F) The opportunity for a producer de-
scribed in subparagraph (C)(iii) to modify the
producer’s request for the alternative stag-
ing regime.
(2) REVIEW OF REQUESTS FOR ALTERNATIVE
STAGING REGIME.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In reviewing the request
of a producer of passenger vehicles or light
trucks for the alternative staging regime,
the Trade Representative, in consultation
with the interagency committee, shall deter-
mine—
(i) whether the request covers 10 percent or
less, or more than 10 percent, of the produc-
tion of passenger vehicles or light trucks in
USMCA countries by the producer; and
(ii) whether the producer has identified
with specificity which of the requirements
set forth in articles 2 through 7 of the auto-
motive appendix the producer is unable to
meet based on current business plans.
(B) APPROVAL OF ALTERNATIVE STAGING RE-
GIME FOR PASSENGER VEHICLE OR LIGHT TRUCK
PRODUCTION NOT EXCEEDING 10 PERCENT OF
NORTH AMERICAN PRODUCTION.—The Trade
Representative shall authorize the use of the
alternative staging regime if the Trade Rep-
resentative, in consultation with the inter-
agency committee, determines that—
(i) the request for the alternative staging
regime covers passenger vehicles or light
trucks that do not exceed 10 percent of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12229
December 19, 2019
production of passenger vehicles or lights
trucks, as the case may be, in USMCA coun-
tries by the producer; and
(ii) the producer has identified with speci-
ficity which of the requirements set forth in
articles 2 through 7 of the automotive appen-
dix the producer is unable to meet based on
current business plans.
(C) APPROVAL OF ALTERNATIVE STAGING RE-
GIME FOR PASSENGER VEHICLE OR LIGHT TRUCK
PRODUCTION EXCEEDING 10 PERCENT OF NORTH
AMERICAN PRODUCTION.—The Trade Rep-
resentative shall authorize the use of the al-
ternative staging regime if the Trade Rep-
resentative, in consultation with the inter-
agency committee, determines that—
(i) the request for the alternative staging
regime covers more than 10 percent of the
production of passenger vehicles or lights
trucks, as the case may be, in USMCA coun-
tries by the producer;
(ii) the producer has identified with speci-
ficity which of the requirements set forth in
articles 2 through 7 of the automotive appen-
dix the producer is unable to meet based on
current business plans; and
(iii) the detailed and credible plan of the
producer submitted under paragraph
(1)(C)(iii) is based on substantial evidence
and reasonably calculated to bring the pro-
duction of the passenger vehicles or light
trucks, as the case may be, into compliance
with the requirements set forth in articles 2
through 7 of the automotive appendix after
the alternative staging regime period has ex-
pired.
(3) PROCEDURES RELATED TO REVIEWING AND
APPROVING REQUESTS.—
(A) DEADLINE FOR REVIEW.—Not later than
120 days after receiving a request of a pro-
ducer for the alternative staging regime, the
Trade Representative, in consultation with
the interagency committee, shall—
(i) review the request;
(ii) make a determination with respect to
whether to authorize the use of the alter-
native staging regime; and
(iii) provide to each producer a response in
writing stating whether the producer may
use the alternative staging regime.
(B) ESTABLISHMENT OF A PUBLIC LIST.—The
Trade Representative shall maintain, and
update as necessary, a public list of the pro-
ducers of covered vehicles that have been au-
thorized to use the alternative staging re-
gime.
(C) REPORTING.—Before a determination is
made with respect to whether to authorize
the use of the alternative staging regime,
the Trade Representative shall provide to
the appropriate congressional committees a
summary of requests for the alternative
staging regime.
(4) ALTERNATIVE STAGING REGIME REVIEW
AND MODIFICATION.—
(A) MATERIAL CHANGES TO CIR-
CUMSTANCES.—
(i) NOTIFICATION.—If the request of a pro-
ducer to use the alternative staging regime
for more than 10 percent of the total produc-
tion of passenger vehicles or light trucks, as
the case may be, in USMCA countries by the
producer has been granted, the producer
shall notify the Trade Representative and
the interagency committee of any material
changes to the information contained in the
request, including any supplemental infor-
mation relating to that request, and of any
material changes to circumstances, that will
affect the producer’s ability to meet any of
the requirements set forth in articles 2
through 7 of the automotive appendix after
the alternative staging regime period has ex-
pired.
(ii) REQUESTS FOR MODIFICATION OF
PLANS.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—A producer that submits a
notification under clause (i) with respect to
a change described in that clause may sub-
mit to the Trade Representative and the
interagency committee a request for modi-
fication of its plan.
(II) DETERMINATION REGARDING MODIFICA-
TION.—Not later than 90 days after receiving
a request submitted under subclause (I), the
Trade Representative, in consultation with
the interagency committee, shall—
(aa) review the request;
(bb) make a determination with respect to
whether the modified plan is based on sub-
stantial evidence and reasonably calculated
to ensure that the producer will still be able
to meet the requirements set forth in arti-
cles 2 through 7 of the automotive appendix
after the alternative staging regime period
has expired;
(cc) if the Trade Representative makes an
affirmative determination under item (bb),
approve the modified plan; and
(dd) notify the producer in writing of the
determination.
(iii) INABILITY TO MEET REQUIREMENTS.—If
the Trade Representative, in consultation
with the interagency committee, determines
that the information provided by a producer
under clause (i) demonstrates that the pro-
ducer will no longer be able to meet the re-
quirements set forth in articles 2 through 7
of the automotive appendix after the alter-
native staging regime period has expired, the
Trade Representative shall notify the pro-
ducer in writing, and no claim for pref-
erential tariff treatment may be made, on or
after the date of the determination, with re-
spect to a covered vehicle of the producer
pursuant to the alternative staging regime.
(5) FAILURE TO MEET REQUIREMENTS FOR AL-
TERNATIVE STAGING REGIME.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If, at any time, the Trade
Representative, in consultation with the
interagency committee, makes a determina-
tion described in subparagraph (B) with re-
spect to a producer of covered vehicles sub-
ject to the alternative staging regime—
(i) any claim for preferential tariff treat-
ment under the alternative staging regime
for any covered vehicle of that producer
shall be considered invalid; and
(ii) notwithstanding the finality of a liq-
uidation of an entry, the importer of any
covered vehicle of that producer shall be lia-
ble for the duties, taxes, and fees that would
have been applicable to that vehicle if pref-
erential tariff treatment pursuant to the al-
ternative staging regime had not applied
when the vehicle was entered for consump-
tion, or withdrawn from warehouse for con-
sumption, plus interest assessed on or after
the date of entry and before the date of the
determination.
(B) DETERMINATION DESCRIBED.—A deter-
mination described in this subparagraph is a
determination that a producer of covered ve-
hicles subject to the alternative staging re-
gime—
(i) has failed to take the steps set forth in
the producer’s request for the alternative
staging regime and, as a result of that fail-
ure, the producer will no longer be able to
meet the requirements set forth in articles 2
through 7 of the automotive appendix after
the alternative staging regime period has ex-
pired;
(ii) has provided false or misleading infor-
mation in the producer’s request; or
(iii) in the case of a producer authorized to
use the alternative staging regime for more
than 10 percent of the total production of
passenger vehicles or light trucks in USMCA
countries by the producer, has failed to no-
tify the Trade Representative under para-
graph (4)(A) of material changes to cir-
cumstances that will prevent the producer
from meeting any of the requirements set
forth in articles 2 through 7 of the auto-
motive appendix after the alternative stag-
ing regime period has expired.
(e) VERIFICATION OF LABOR VALUE CONTENT
REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As part of a verification
conducted under section 207, the Secretary of
the Treasury, in conjunction with the Sec-
retary of Labor, may conduct a verification
of whether a covered vehicle complies with
the labor value content requirements set
forth in article 7 of the automotive appendix
or, if the producer is subject to the alter-
native staging regime under subsection (d),
articles 7 and 8 of that appendix.
(2) ROLE OF SECRETARY OF LABOR.—In co-
operation with the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, the Secretary of Labor shall participate
in any verification conducted under para-
graph (1) by verifying whether the produc-
tion of covered vehicles by a producer meets
the high-wage components of the labor value
content requirements, including the wage
component of the high-wage material and
manufacturing expenditures, the high-wage
technology expenditures, and the high-wage
assembly expenditures, within the meaning
given those terms in article 7 of that appen-
dix.
(3) ROLE OF SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.—
The Secretary of the Treasury shall partici-
pate in any verification conducted under
paragraph (1) by verifying—
(A) the components of the labor value con-
tent requirements not covered by paragraph
(2), including the annual purchase value and
cost components of the high-wage material
and manufacturing expenditures, within the
meaning given those terms in article 7 of
that appendix; and
(B) whether the producer has met the labor
value content requirements.
(4) ACTIONS BY SECRETARY OF LABOR.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In participating in a
verification conducted under paragraph (1),
the Secretary of Labor shall assist the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to do the following:
(i) Examine, or cause to be examined, upon
reasonable notice, any record (including any
statement, declaration, document, or elec-
tronically generated or machine readable
data) described in the notice with reasonable
specificity.
(ii) Request information from any officer,
employee, or agent of a producer of auto-
motive goods, as necessary, that may be rel-
evant with respect to whether the produc-
tion of covered vehicles meets the high-wage
components of the labor value content re-
quirements set forth in article 7 of the auto-
motive appendix or, if the producer is subject
to the alternative staging regime under sub-
section (d), articles 7 and 8 of that appendix.
(B) NATURE OF INFORMATION REQUESTED.—
Records and information that may be exam-
ined or requested under subparagraph (A)
may relate to wages, hours, job responsibil-
ities, and other information in any plant or
facility relied on by a producer of covered
vehicles to demonstrate that the production
of such vehicles by the producer meets the
labor value content requirements set forth in
article 7 of the automotive appendix or, if
the producer is subject to the alternative
staging regime under subsection (d), articles
7 and 8 of that appendix.
(5) WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS.—
(A) UNLAWFUL ACTS.—It is unlawful to in-
timidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, black-
list, discharge, or in any other manner dis-
criminate against any person for—
(i) disclosing information to a Federal
agency or to any person relating to a
verification under this subsection; or
(ii) cooperating or seeking to cooperate in
a verification under this subsection.
(B) ENFORCEMENT.—The Secretary of the
Treasury and the Secretary of Labor are au-
thorized to take such actions under existing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12230 December 19, 2019
law, including imposing appropriate pen-
alties and seeking appropriate injunctive re-
lief, as may be necessary to ensure compli-
ance with this subsection and as provided for
in existing regulations.
(6) PROTESTS OF DECISIONS OF U.S. CUSTOMS
AND BORDER PROTECTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If a protest under section
514 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1514) of
a decision of U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection with respect to the eligibility for
preferential tariff treatment of a covered ve-
hicle relates to the analysis of the Depart-
ment of Labor relating to the high-wage
components of the labor value content re-
quirements described in paragraph (1), the
Secretary of Labor shall—
(i) conduct an administrative review of the
portion of the decision relating to such re-
quirements; and
(ii) provide the results of that review to
the Commissioner.
(B) NO ACCELERATED DISPOSITION.—An im-
porter may not request the accelerated dis-
position under section 515(b) of the Tariff
Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1515(b)) of a protest
against a decision of the Commissioner de-
scribed in subparagraph (A).
(f) ADMINISTRATION BY DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR.—The Secretary of Labor is author-
ized to establish or designate an office with-
in the Department of Labor to carry out the
provisions of this section for which the De-
partment is responsible.
(g) REVIEW AND REPORTS.—
(1) PERIODIC REVIEW ON AUTOMOTIVE RULES
OF ORIGIN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Trade Representa-
tive, in consultation with the interagency
committee, shall conduct a biennial review
of the operation of the USMCA with respect
to trade in automotive goods, including—
(i) to the extent practicable, a summary of
actions taken by producers to demonstrate
compliance with the automotive rules of ori-
gin, use of the alternative staging regime,
enforcement of such rules of origin, and
other relevant matters; and
(ii) whether the automotive rules of origin
are effective and relevant in light of new
technology and changes in the content, pro-
duction processes, and character of auto-
motive goods.
(B) REPORT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Trade Representative
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report on each review
conducted under subparagraph (A).
(ii) INITIAL REPORT.—The first report re-
quired under clause (i) shall be submitted
not later than 2 years after the date on
which the USMCA enters into force.
(iii) TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIRE-
MENT.—The requirement to submit reports
under clause (i) shall terminate on the date
that is 10 years after the date on which the
USMCA enters into force.
(2) REPORT BY INTERNATIONAL TRADE COM-
MISSION.—Not later than one year after the
submission of the first report required by
paragraph (1)(B), and every 2 years there-
after until the date that is 12 years after the
date on which the USMCA enters into force,
the International Trade Commission shall
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees and the President a report on—
(A) the economic impact of the automotive
rules of origin on—
(i) the gross domestic product of the
United States;
(ii) exports from and imports into the
United States;
(iii) aggregate employment and employ-
ment opportunities in the United States;
(iv) production, investment, use of produc-
tive facilities, and profit levels in the auto-
motive industries and other pertinent indus-
tries in the United States affected by the
automotive rules of origin;
(v) wages and employment of workers in
the automotive sector in the United States;
and
(vi) the interests of consumers in the
United States;
(B) the operation of the automotive rules
of origin and their effects on the competi-
tiveness of the United States with respect to
production and trade in automotive goods,
taking into account developments in tech-
nology, production processes, or other re-
lated matters;
(C) whether the automotive rules of origin
are relevant in light of technological
changes in the United States; and
(D) such other matters as the Inter-
national Trade Commission considers rel-
evant to the economic impact of the auto-
motive rules of origin, including prices,
sales, inventories, patterns of demand, cap-
ital investment, obsolescence of equipment,
and diversification of production in the
United States.
(3) REPORT BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL.—Not
later than 4 years after the date on which
the USMCA enters into force, the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
submit to the Committee on Appropriations
and the Committee on Ways and Means of
the House of Representatives and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations and the Committee
on Finance of the Senate a report assessing
the effectiveness of United States Govern-
ment interagency coordination on imple-
mentation, enforcement, and verification of
the automotive rules of origin and the cus-
toms procedures of the USMCA with respect
to automotive goods.
(4) PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.—Before submit-
ting a report under paragraph (1)(B) or (2),
the agency responsible for the report shall—
(A) solicit information relating to matters
that will be addressed in the report from pro-
ducers of automotive goods, labor organiza-
tions, and other interested parties;
(B) provide for an opportunity for the sub-
mission of comments, orally or in writing,
from members of the public relating to such
matters; and
(C) after submitting the report, post a
version of the report appropriate for public
viewing on a publicly available internet
website for the agency.
(h) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall—
(1) take effect on the date of the enactment
of this Act; and
(2) apply with respect to goods entered, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption,
on or after the date on which the USMCA en-
ters into force.
SEC. 203. MERCHANDISE PROCESSING FEE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 13031(b)(10) of the
Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(b)(10)) is amended
by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(B) No fee may be charged under para-
graph (9) or (10) of subsection (a) with re-
spect to goods that qualify as originating
goods under section 202 of the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation
Act or qualify for duty-free treatment under
Annex 6–A of the USMCA (as defined in sec-
tion 3 of that Act). Any service for which an
exemption from such fee is provided by rea-
son of this paragraph may not be funded with
money contained in the Customs User Fee
Account.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendment made by
subsection (a) shall—
(A) take effect on the date on which the
USMCA enters into force; and
(B) apply with respect to a good entered or
released on or after that date.
(2) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA TREATMENT.—In
the case of a good entered or released before
the date on which the USMCA enters into
force—
(A) the amendments made by subsection
(a) to section 13031(b)(10)(B) of the Consoli-
dated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of
1985 (19 U.S.C. 58c(b)(10)(B)) shall not apply
with respect to the good; and
(B) section 13031(b)(10)(B) of such Act, as in
effect on the day before that date, shall con-
tinue to apply on and after that date with re-
spect to the good.
(3) ENTERED OR RELEASED DEFINED.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘entered or released’’
has the meaning given that term in section
13031(b)(8)(E) of the Consolidated Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (19 U.S.C.
58c(b)(8)(E)).
SEC. 204. DISCLOSURE OF INCORRECT INFORMA-
TION; FALSE CERTIFICATIONS OF
ORIGIN; DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL
TARIFF TREATMENT.
(a) DISCLOSURE OF INCORRECT INFORMA-
TION.—Section 592 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19
U.S.C. 1592) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph
(5) and inserting the following:
‘‘(5) PRIOR DISCLOSURE REGARDING CLAIMS
UNDER THE USMCA.—An importer shall not be
subject to penalties under subsection (a) for
making an incorrect claim that a good quali-
fies as an originating good under section 202
of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment Implementation Act if the importer, in
accordance with regulations prescribed by
the Secretary of the Treasury, promptly
makes a corrected declaration and pays any
duties owing with respect to that good.’’; and
(2) by striking subsection (f) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(f) FALSE CERTIFICATIONS OF ORIGIN
UNDER THE USMCA.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
it is unlawful for any person to certify false-
ly, by fraud, gross negligence, or negligence,
in a USMCA certification of origin (as such
term is defined in section 508 of this Act)
that a good exported from the United States
qualifies as an originating good under the
rules of origin provided for in section 202 of
the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act. The procedures and
penalties of this section that apply to a vio-
lation of subsection (a) also apply to a viola-
tion of this subsection.
‘‘(2) PROMPT AND VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE OF
INCORRECT INFORMATION.—No penalty shall be
imposed under this subsection if, promptly
after an exporter or producer that issued a
USMCA certification of origin has reason to
believe that such certification contains or is
based on incorrect information, the exporter
or producer voluntarily provides written no-
tice of such incorrect information to every
person to whom the certification was issued.
‘‘(3) EXCEPTION.—A person shall not be con-
sidered to have violated paragraph (1) if—
‘‘(A) the information was correct at the
time it was provided in a USMCA certifi-
cation of origin but was later rendered incor-
rect due to a change in circumstances; and
‘‘(B) the person promptly and voluntarily
provides written notice of the change in cir-
cumstances to all persons to whom the per-
son provided the certification.’’.
(b) DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL TARIFF
TREATMENT.—Section 514 of the Tariff Act of
1930 (19 U.S.C. 1514) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘and arti-
cle 1904’’ and all that follows through ‘‘Free-
Trade Agreement’’;
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), in the matter fol-
lowing subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 202 of the North American Free Trade
Agreement Implementation Act’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘section 202 of the United States-Mexico-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12231
December 19, 2019
Canada Agreement Implementation Act’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (2)(E)—
(i) by striking ‘‘section 202 of the North
American Free Trade Agreement Implemen-
tation Act’’ and inserting ‘‘section 202 of the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘NAFTA Certificate of Ori-
gin’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA certification of
origin (as such term is defined in section 508
of this Act)’’;
(3) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘section
202 of the North American Free Trade Agree-
ment Implementation Act’’ and inserting
‘‘section 202 of the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement Implementation Act’’;
and
(4) by striking subsection (f) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(f) DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL TARIFF
TREATMENT UNDER THE USMCA.—If U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection or U.S. Immi-
gration and Customs Enforcement of the De-
partment of Homeland Security finds indica-
tions of a pattern of conduct by an importer,
exporter, or producer of false or unsupported
representations that goods qualify under the
rules of origin provided for in section 202 of
the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act, U.S. Customs and Bor-
der Protection, in accordance with regula-
tions prescribed by the Secretary of the
Treasury, may suspend preferential tariff
treatment under the USMCA (as defined in
section 3 of that Act) to entries of identical
goods covered by subsequent representations
by that importer, exporter, or producer until
U.S. Customs and Border Protection deter-
mines that representations of that person
are in conformity with such section 202.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by
subsections (a) and (b) shall—
(A) take effect on the date on which the
USMCA enters into force; and
(B) apply with respect to a good entered, or
exported from the United States, as the case
may be, on or after that date.
(2) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA TREATMENT.—In
the case of a good entered, or exported from
the United States, as the case may be, before
the date on which the USMCA enters into
force—
(A) the amendments made by subsection
(a) to section 592 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19
U.S.C. 1592) and the amendments made by
subsection (b) to section 514 of such Act (19
U.S.C. 1514) shall not apply with respect to
the good; and
(B) sections 592 and 514 of such Act, as in
effect on the day before that date, shall con-
tinue to apply on and after that date with re-
spect to the good.
(3) ENTERED DEFINED.—In this subsection,
the term ‘‘entered’’ includes a withdrawal
from warehouse for consumption.
SEC. 205. RELIQUIDATION OF ENTRIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 520(d) of the Tar-
iff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1520(d)) is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘section 202 of the North
American Free Trade Agreement Implemen-
tation Act,’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘, or section 203’’ and in-
serting ‘‘, section 203’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘for which’’ and inserting
‘‘, or section 202 of the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement Implementation Act (ex-
cept with respect to any merchandise proc-
essing fees), for which’’; and
(2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(2) copies of all applicable certificates or
certifications of origin; and’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by
subsection (a) shall—
(A) take effect on the date on which the
USMCA enters into force; and
(B) apply with respect to a good entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
for consumption, on or after that date.
(2) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA TREATMENT.—In
the case of a good entered for consumption,
or withdrawn from warehouse for consump-
tion, before the date on which the USMCA
enters into force—
(A) the amendments made by subsection
(a) to section 520(d) of the Tariff Act of 1930
(19 U.S.C. 1520(d)) shall not apply with re-
spect to the good; and
(B) section 520(d) of such Act, as in effect
on the day before that date, shall continue
to apply on and after that date with respect
to the good.
SEC. 206. RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 508 of the Tariff
Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1508) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (b) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(b) EXPORTS AND IMPORTS RELATING TO
USMCA COUNTRIES.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) USMCA; USMCA COUNTRY.—The terms
‘USMCA’ and ‘USMCA country’ have the
meanings given those terms in section 3 of
the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act.
‘‘(B) USMCA CERTIFICATION OF ORIGIN.—The
term ‘USMCA certification of origin’ means
the certification established under article
5.2.1 of the USMCA that a good qualifies as
an originating good under the USMCA.
‘‘(2) EXPORTS TO USMCA COUNTRIES.—Any
person who completes a USMCA certification
of origin or provides a written representa-
tion for a good exported from the United
States to a USMCA country shall make,
keep, and, pursuant to rules and regulations
prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury,
render for examination and inspection, all
records and supporting documents related to
the origin of the good (including the certifi-
cation or copies thereof), including records
related to—
‘‘(A) the purchase, cost, value, and ship-
ping of, and payment for, the good;
‘‘(B) the purchase, cost, value, and ship-
ping of, and payment for, all materials, in-
cluding indirect materials, used in the pro-
duction of the good; and
‘‘(C) the production of the good in the form
in which it was exported or the production of
the material in the form in which it was
sold.
‘‘(3) EXPORTS UNDER THE CANADIAN AGREE-
MENT.—Any person who exports, or who
knowingly causes to be exported, any mer-
chandise to Canada during such time as the
United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement
is in force with respect to, and the United
States applies that Agreement to, Canada
shall make, keep, and render for examina-
tion and inspection such records (including
certifications of origin or copies thereof)
which pertain to the exportations.
‘‘(4) IMPORTS INTO THE UNITED STATES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Any importer who
claims preferential tariff treatment under
the USMCA for a good imported into the
United States from a USMCA country shall
make, keep, and, pursuant to rules and regu-
lations prescribed by the Secretary of the
Treasury of the Secretary of Labor, render
for examination and inspection—
‘‘(i) records and supporting documentation
related to the importation;
‘‘(ii) all records and supporting documents
related to the origin of the good (including
the certification or copies thereof), if the im-
porter completed the certification; and
‘‘(iii) records and supporting documents
necessary to demonstrate that the good did
not, while in transit to the United States,
undergo further production or any other op-
eration other than unloading, reloading, or
any other operation necessary to preserve
the good in good condition or to transport
the good to the United States.
‘‘(B) VEHICLE PRODUCER.—Any vehicle pro-
ducer whose good is the subject of a claim
for preferential tariff treatment under the
USMCA shall make, keep, and, pursuant to
rules and regulations promulgated by the
Secretary of the Treasury and Secretary of
Labor, render for examination and inspec-
tion records and supporting documents re-
lated to the labor value content and steel
and aluminum purchasing requirements for
the qualification of its vehicles for pref-
erential treatment.
‘‘(5) RETENTION PERIOD.—
‘‘(A) EXPORTS TO USMCA COUNTRIES.—A per-
son covered by paragraph (2) who completes
a USMCA certification of origin or provides
a written representation for a good exported
from the United States to a USMCA country
shall keep the records required by such para-
graph relating to that certification of origin
for a period of at least 5 years after the date
on which the certification is completed.
‘‘(B) EXPORTS UNDER CANADIAN AGREE-
MENT.—The records required by paragraph (3)
shall be kept for such periods of time as the
Secretary shall prescribe, except that—
‘‘(i) no period of time for the retention of
the records may exceed 5 years from the date
of entry, filing of a reconciliation, or expor-
tation, as appropriate; and
‘‘(ii) records for any drawback claim shall
be kept until the 3rd anniversary of the date
of liquidation of the claim.
‘‘(C) IMPORTS INTO THE UNITED STATES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—An importer covered by
paragraph (4)(A) shall keep the records and
supporting documents required by such para-
graph for a period of at least 5 years after
the date of importation of the good.
‘‘(ii) VEHICLE PRODUCER.—A vehicle pro-
ducer covered by paragraph (4)(B) shall keep
the records and supporting documents re-
quired by paragraph (4)(B) for a period of at
least 5 years after the date of filing the cer-
tifications required under paragraphs (1) and
(2) of section 202A(c) of the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation
Act.’’;
(2) by striking subsection (c); and
(3) in the paragraph heading for subsection
(e)(1), by striking ‘‘NAFTA’’ and inserting
‘‘USMCA’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by
subsection (a) shall take effect on the date
on which the USMCA enters into force.
(2) APPLICABILITY.—
(A) EXPORTS.—Paragraphs (2) and (5)(A) of
section 508(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as
amended by subsection (a), shall apply with
respect to a good exported from the United
States on or after the date on which the
USMCA enters into force.
(B) IMPORTS.—Paragraphs (4) and (5)(C) of
section 508(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as
amended by subsection (a), shall apply with
respect to a good that is entered for con-
sumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for
consumption, on or after the date on which
the USMCA enters into force.
(3) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA TREATMENT.—
(A) EXPORTS.—In the case of a good ex-
ported from the United States before the
date on which the USMCA enters into force—
(i) the amendments made by subsection (a)
to paragraphs (2) and (5)(A) of section 508(b)
of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1508) shall
not apply with respect to the good; and
(ii) section 508 of such Act, as in effect on
the day before that date, shall continue to
apply on and after that date with respect to
the good.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12232 December 19, 2019
(B) IMPORTS.—In the case of a good that is
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
warehouse for consumption, before the date
on which the USMCA enters into force, the
amendments made by subsection (a) to para-
graphs (4) and (5)(C) of section 508(b) of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1508) shall not
apply with respect to the good.
SEC. 207. ACTIONS REGARDING VERIFICATION OF
CLAIMS UNDER THE USMCA.
(a) VERIFICATION.—
(1) ORIGIN VERIFICATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury may, pursuant to article 5.9 of the
USMCA, conduct a verification of whether a
good is an originating good under section 202
or 202A.
(B) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—If the Sec-
retary conducts a verification under sub-
paragraph (A), the President may direct the
Secretary—
(i) during the verification process, to re-
lease the good only upon payment of duties
or provision of security; and
(ii) if the Secretary makes a negative de-
termination under subsection (b), to take ac-
tion under subsection (c).
(2) TEXTILE AND APPAREL GOODS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury may, pursuant to article 6.6 of the
USMCA, conduct a verification described in
subparagraph (C) with respect to a textile or
apparel good.
(B) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—If the Sec-
retary conducts a verification under sub-
paragraph (A) with respect to a textile or ap-
parel good, the President may direct the Sec-
retary—
(i) during the verification process, to take
appropriate action described in subparagraph
(D); and
(ii) if the Secretary makes a negative de-
termination described in subsection (b), to
take action under subsection (c).
(C) VERIFICATION DESCRIBED.—A
verification described in this subparagraph
with respect to a textile or apparel good is—
(i) a verification of whether the good quali-
fies for preferential tariff treatment under
the USMCA; or
(ii) a verification of whether customs of-
fenses are occurring or have occurred with
respect to the good.
(D) ACTION DURING VERIFICATION.—Appro-
priate action described in this subparagraph
may consist of—
(i) release of the textile or apparel good
that is the subject of a verification described
in subparagraph (C) upon payment of duties
or provision of security;
(ii) suspension of preferential tariff treat-
ment under the USMCA with respect to—
(I) the textile or apparel good that is the
subject of a verification described in sub-
paragraph (C)(i), if the Secretary determines
that there is insufficient information to sup-
port the claim for preferential tariff treat-
ment; or
(II) any textile or apparel good exported or
produced by a person that is the subject of a
verification described in subparagraph (C)(ii)
if the Secretary of the Treasury determines
that there is insufficient information to sup-
port the claim for preferential tariff treat-
ment made with respect to that good;
(iii) denial of preferential tariff treatment
under the USMCA with respect to—
(I) the textile or apparel good that is the
subject of a verification described in sub-
paragraph (C)(i) if the Secretary determines
that incorrect information has been provided
to support the claim for preferential tariff
treatment; or
(II) any textile or apparel good exported or
produced by a person that is the subject of a
verification described in subparagraph (C)(ii)
if the Secretary determines that the person
has provided incorrect information to sup-
port the claim for preferential tariff treat-
ment that has been made with respect to
that good;
(iv) detention of any textile or apparel
good exported or produced by a person that
is the subject of a verification described in
subparagraph (C) if the Secretary determines
that there is insufficient information to de-
termine the country of origin of that good;
and
(v) denial of entry into the United States
of any textile or apparel good exported or
produced by a person that is the subject of a
verification described in subparagraph (C) if
the Secretary determines that the person
has provided incorrect information regarding
the country of origin of that good.
(b) NEGATIVE DETERMINATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A negative determination
described in this subsection with respect to a
good imported, exported, or produced by an
importer, exporter, or producer is a deter-
mination by the Secretary, based on a
verification conducted under subsection (a),
that—
(A) a claim by the importer, exporter, or
producer that the good qualifies as an origi-
nating good under section 202 is inaccurate;
or
(B) the good does not qualify for pref-
erential tariff treatment under the USMCA
because—
(i) the importer, exporter, or producer
failed to respond to a written request for in-
formation or failed to provide sufficient in-
formation to determine that the good quali-
fies as an originating good;
(ii) after receipt of a written notification
for a visit to conduct verification under sub-
section (a), the exporter or producer did not
provide written consent for that visit;
(iii) the importer, exporter, or producer
does not maintain, or denies access to,
records or documentation required under
section 508(l) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19
U.S.C. 1508(l));
(iv) in the case of verification conducted
under subsection (a)(2)—
(I) access or permission for a site visit is
denied;
(II) officials of the United States are pre-
vented from completing a site visit on the
proposed date and the exporter or producer
does not provide an acceptable alternative
date for the site visit; or
(III) the exporter or producer does not pro-
vide access to relevant documents or facili-
ties during a site visit; or
(v) the importer, exporter, or producer—
(I) otherwise fails to comply with the re-
quirements of this section; or
(II) based on the preponderance of the evi-
dence, circumvents the requirements of this
section.
(2) REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION.—The Sec-
retary shall not make a negative determina-
tion described in paragraph (1)(B) unless—
(A) in a case in which the Secretary con-
ducts a verification with respect to a good by
written request or questionnaire submitted
to the importer under article 5.9.1(a) of the
USMCA and the claim for preferential tariff
treatment under the USMCA is based on a
certification of origin completed by the ex-
porter or producer of the good, the Secretary
requests information from the exporter or
producer that completed the certification; or
(B) in a case in which the Secretary con-
ducts a verification with respect to a textile
or apparel good by requesting a site visit
under article 6.6.2 of the USMCA, the Sec-
retary requests information from the im-
porter and from any exporter or producer
that provided information to the Secretary
to support the claim for preferential tariff
treatment.
(c) ACTION BASED ON DETERMINATION.—
(1) DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL TARIFF TREAT-
MENT.—Upon making a negative determina-
tion described in subsection (b)(1) with re-
spect to a good, the Secretary may deny
preferential tariff treatment under the
USMCA with respect to the good.
(2) WITHHOLDING OF PREFERENTIAL TARIFF
TREATMENT BASED ON PATTERN OF CONDUCT.—
If verifications of origin relating to identical
goods indicate a pattern of conduct by an
importer, exporter, or producer of false or
unsupported representations relevant to a
claim that a good imported into the United
States qualifies for preferential tariff treat-
ment under the USMCA, U.S. Customs and
Border Protection, in accordance with regu-
lations prescribed by the Secretary, may
withhold preferential tariff treatment under
the USMCA for entries of those goods im-
ported, exported, or produced by that person
until U.S. Customs and Border Protection
determines that person has established com-
pliance with requirements for claims for
preferential tariff treatment under the
USMCA.
(d) PREVENTION OF CIRCUMVENTION.—In
making a determination under this section,
including whether to accept or reject a claim
for preferential tariff treatment under the
USMCA, the Secretary shall interpret the re-
quirements of this section in a manner to
avoid and prevent circumvention of those re-
quirements.
SEC. 208. DRAWBACK [RESERVED].
SEC. 209. OTHER AMENDMENTS TO THE TARIFF
ACT OF 1930.
(a) COUNTRY OF ORIGIN MARKING.—Section
304 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1304) is
amended by striking subsection (k) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(k) TREATMENT OF GOODS OF A USMCA
COUNTRY.—In applying this section to an ar-
ticle that qualifies as a good of a USMCA
country (as defined in section 3 of the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implemen-
tation Act)—
‘‘(1) the exemption under subsection
(a)(3)(H) shall be applied by substituting
‘reasonably know’ for ‘necessarily know’;
‘‘(2) the Secretary shall exempt the good
from the requirements for marking under
subsection (a) if the good—
‘‘(A) is an original work of art; or
‘‘(B) is provided for under subheading
6904.10, heading 8541, or heading 8542 of the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United
States; and
‘‘(3) subsection (b) does not apply to the
usual container of any good described in sub-
section (a)(3)(E) or (I) or paragraph (2)(A) or
(B) of this subsection.’’.
(b) EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND WIT-
NESSES.—Section 509(a)(2)(A) of the Tariff
Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1509(a)(2)(A)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in clause (i), by inserting at the end ‘‘or
a vehicle producer whose good is subject to a
claim of preferential tariff treatment under
the USMCA (as defined in section 3 of the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act),’’; and
(2) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘a NAFTA
country’’ and all that follows through ‘‘Im-
plementation Act)’’ and inserting ‘‘a USMCA
country (as defined in section 3 of the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implemen-
tation Act)’’.
(c) EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION.—Section 628
of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1628) is
amended by striking subsection (c) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(c) GOVERNMENT AGENCY OF USMCA COUN-
TRY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may au-
thorize U.S. Customs and Border Protection
to exchange information with any govern-
ment agency of a USMCA country, if the
Secretary—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12233
December 19, 2019
‘‘(A) reasonably believes the exchange of
information is necessary to implement chap-
ter 2, 4, 5, 6, or 7 of the USMCA; and
‘‘(B) obtains assurances from such agency
that the information will be held in con-
fidence and used only for governmental pur-
poses.
‘‘(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the
terms ‘USMCA’ and ‘USMCA country’ have
the meanings given those terms in section 3
of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment Implementation Act.’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by
this section shall—
(A) take effect on the date on which the
USMCA enters into force; and
(B) apply with respect to a good entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
for consumption, on or after that date.
(2) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA TREATMENT.—In
the case of a good entered for consumption,
or withdrawn from warehouse for consump-
tion, before the date on which the USMCA
enters into force—
(A) the amendments made by this section
shall not apply with respect to the good; and
(B) the provisions of law amended by this
section, as such provisions were in effect on
the day before that date, shall continue to
apply on and after that date with respect to
the good.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE RELATING TO EXCHANGE
OF INFORMATION.—Notwithstanding the
amendment made by subsection (c), the Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall retain the au-
thority provided in section 628(c) of the Tar-
iff Act of 1930 (as in effect on the day before
the date on which the USMCA enters into
force) to exchange information with any gov-
ernment agency of a NAFTA country (as de-
fined in section 2 of the North American
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
(as in effect on the day before the date on
which the USMCA enters into force)).
SEC. 210. REGULATIONS.
(a) SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.—The Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall prescribe such
regulations as may be necessary to carry out
this title and the amendments made by this
title (except as provided by subsection (b)).
(b) SECRETARY OF LABOR.—The Secretary
of Labor shall prescribe such regulations as
may be necessary to carry out the labor
value content determination under section
202A.
TITLE III—APPLICATION OF USMCA TO
SECTORS AND SERVICES
Subtitle A—Relief From Injury Caused by
Import Competition [reserved]
Subtitle B—Temporary Entry of Business
Persons [reserved]
Subtitle C—United States-Mexico Cross-
border Long-haul Trucking Services
SEC. 321. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) BORDER COMMERCIAL ZONE.—The term
‘‘border commercial zone’’ means—
(A) the area of United States territory of
the municipalities along the United States-
Mexico international border and the com-
mercial zones of such municipalities as de-
scribed in subpart B of part 372 of title 49,
Code of Federal Regulations; and
(B) any additional border crossing and as-
sociated commercial zones listed in the Fed-
eral Motor Carrier Safety Administration
OP–2 application instructions or successor
documents.
(2) CARGO ORIGINATING IN MEXICO.—The
term ‘‘cargo originating in Mexico’’ means
any cargo that enters the United States by
commercial motor vehicle from Mexico, in-
cluding cargo that may have originated in a
country other than Mexico.
(3) CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES.—The term
‘‘change in circumstance’’ may include a
substantial increase in services supplied by
the grantee of a grant of authority.
(4) COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.—The term
‘‘commercial motor vehicle’’ means a com-
mercial motor vehicle, as such term is de-
fined in paragraph (1) of section 31132 of title
49, United States Code, that meets the re-
quirements of subparagraph (A) of such para-
graph.
(5) CROSS-BORDER LONG-HAUL TRUCKING
SERVICES.—The term ‘‘cross-border long-haul
trucking services’’ means—
(A) the transportation by commercial
motor vehicle of cargo originating in Mexico
to a point in the United States outside of a
border commercial zone; or
(B) the transportation by commercial
motor vehicle of cargo originating in the
United States from a point in the United
States outside of a border commercial zone
to a point in a border commercial zone or a
point in Mexico.
(6) DRIVER.—The term ‘‘driver’’ means a
person that drives a commercial motor vehi-
cle in cross-border long-haul trucking serv-
ices.
(7) GRANT OF AUTHORITY.—The term ‘‘grant
of authority’’ means registration granted
pursuant to section 13902 of title 49, United
States Code, or a successor provision, to per-
sons of Mexico to conduct cross-border long-
haul trucking services in the United States.
(8) INTERESTED PARTY.—The term ‘‘inter-
ested party’’ means—
(A) persons of the United States engaged in
the provision of cross-border long-haul
trucking services;
(B) a trade or business association, a ma-
jority of whose members are part of the rel-
evant United States long-haul trucking serv-
ices industry;
(C) a certified or recognized union, or rep-
resentative group of suppliers, operators, or
drivers who are part of the United States
long-haul trucking services industry;
(D) the Government of Mexico; or
(E) persons of Mexico.
(9) MATERIAL HARM.—The term ‘‘material
harm’’ means a significant loss in the share
of the United States market or relevant sub-
market for cross-border long-haul trucking
services held by persons of the United
States.
(10) OPERATOR OR SUPPLIER.—The term ‘‘op-
erator’’ or ‘‘supplier’’ means an entity that
has been granted registration under section
13902 of title 49, United States Code, to pro-
vide cross-border long-haul trucking serv-
ices.
(11) PERSONS OF MEXICO.—The term ‘‘per-
sons of Mexico’’ includes—
(A) entities domiciled in Mexico organized,
or otherwise constituted under Mexican law,
including subsidiaries of United States com-
panies domiciled in Mexico, or entities
owned or controlled by a Mexican national,
which conduct cross-border long-haul truck-
ing services, or employ drivers who are non-
United States nationals; and
(B) drivers who are Mexican nationals.
(12) PERSONS OF THE UNITED STATES.—The
term ‘‘persons of the United States’’ includes
entities domiciled in the United States, or-
ganized or otherwise constituted under
United States law, and not owned or con-
trolled by persons of Mexico, which provide
cross-border long-haul trucking services and
long-haul commercial motor vehicle drivers
who are United States nationals.
(13) THREAT OF MATERIAL HARM.—The term
‘‘threat of material harm’’ means material
harm that is likely to occur.
(14) UNITED STATES LONG-HAUL TRUCKING
SERVICES INDUSTRY.—The term ‘‘United
States long-haul trucking services industry’’
means—
(A) United States suppliers, operators, or
drivers as a whole providing cross-border
long-haul trucking services; or
(B) United States suppliers, operators, or
drivers providing cross-border long-haul
trucking services in a specific sub-market of
the whole United States market.
SEC. 322. INVESTIGATIONS AND DETERMINA-
TIONS BY COMMISSION.
(a) INVESTIGATION.—Upon the filing of a pe-
tition by an interested party described in
subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 321(8)
which is representative of a United States
long-haul trucking services industry, or at
the request of the President or the Trade
Representative, or upon the resolution of the
Committee on Ways and Means of the House
of Representatives or the Committee on Fi-
nance of the Senate, the International Trade
Commission (in this subtitle referred to as
the ‘‘Commission’’) shall promptly initiate
an investigation to determine—
(1) whether a request by a person of Mexico
to receive a grant of authority that is pend-
ing as of the date of the filing of the petition
threatens to cause material harm to a
United States long-haul trucking services in-
dustry;
(2) whether a person of Mexico who has re-
ceived a grant of authority on or after the
date of entry into force of the USMCA and
retains such grant of authority is causing or
threatens to cause material harm to a
United States long-haul trucking services in-
dustry; or
(3) whether, with respect to a person of
Mexico who has received a grant of authority
before the date of entry into force of the
USMCA and retains such grant of authority,
there has been a change in circumstances
such that such person of Mexico is causing or
threatens to cause material harm to a
United States long-haul trucking services in-
dustry.
(b) TRANSMISSION OF PETITION, REQUEST, OR
RESOLUTION.—The Commission shall trans-
mit a copy of any petition, request, or reso-
lution filed under subsection (a) to the Trade
Representative and the Secretary of Trans-
portation.
(c) PUBLICATION AND HEARINGS.—The Com-
mission shall—
(1) promptly publish notice of the com-
mencement of any investigation under sub-
section (a) in the Federal Register; and
(2) within a reasonable time period there-
after, hold public hearings at which the Com-
mission shall afford interested parties an op-
portunity to be present, to present evidence,
to respond to presentations of other parties,
and otherwise to be heard.
(d) FACTORS APPLIED IN MAKING DETER-
MINATIONS.—In making a determination
under subsection (a) of whether a request by
a person of Mexico to receive a grant of au-
thority, or a person of Mexico who has re-
ceived a grant of authority and retains such
grant of authority, as the case may be,
threatens to cause material harm to a
United States long-haul trucking services in-
dustry, the Commission shall—
(1) consider, among other things, and as
relevant—
(A) the volume and tonnage of merchandise
transported; and
(B) the employment, wages, hours of serv-
ice, and working conditions; and
(2) with respect to a change in cir-
cumstances described in subsection (a)(3),
take into account those operations by per-
sons of Mexico under grants of authority in
effect as of the date of entry into force of the
USMCA are not causing material harm.
(e) ASSISTANCE TO COMMISSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—At the request of the
Commission, the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity shall consult with the Commission
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12234 December 19, 2019
and shall collect and maintain such addi-
tional data and other information on com-
mercial motor vehicles entering or exiting
the United States at a port of entry or exit
at the United States border with Mexico as
the Commission may request for the purpose
of conducting investigations under sub-
section (a) and shall make such information
available to the Commission in a timely
manner.
(2) REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—At the request of the
Commission, the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity, the Secretary of Transportation, the
Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of
Labor, and the head of any other Federal
agency shall make available to the Commis-
sion any information in their possession, in-
cluding proprietary information, as the Com-
mission may require in order to assist the
Commission in making determinations under
subsection (a).
(B) CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS INFORMATION.—
The Commission shall treat any proprietary
information obtained under subparagraph
(A) as confidential business information in
accordance with regulations adopted by the
Commission to carry out this subtitle.
(f) LIMITED DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL
BUSINESS INFORMATION UNDER PROTECTIVE
ORDER.—The Commission shall promulgate
regulations to provide access to confidential
business information under protective order
to authorized representatives of interested
parties who are parties to an investigation
under subsection (a).
(g) DEADLINE FOR DETERMINATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 120 days
after the date on which an investigation is
initiated under subsection (a) with respect to
a petition, request, or resolution, the Com-
mission shall make a determination with re-
spect to the petition, request, or resolution.
(2) EXCEPTION.—If, before the 100th day
after an investigation is initiated under sub-
section (a), the Commission determines that
the investigation is extraordinarily com-
plicated, the Commission shall make its de-
termination with respect to the investiga-
tion not later than 150 days after the date re-
ferred to in paragraph (1).
(h) APPLICABLE PROVISIONS.—For purposes
of this subtitle, the provisions of paragraphs
(1), (2), and (3) of section 330(d) of the Tariff
Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1330(d)) shall be applied
with respect to determinations and findings
made under this section as if such deter-
minations and findings were made under sec-
tion 202 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
2252).
SEC. 323. COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS AND
REPORT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—If the Commission makes
an affirmative determination under section
322, the Commission shall recommend the ac-
tion that is necessary to address the mate-
rial harm or threat of material harm found.
(b) LIMITATION.—Only those members of
the Commission who agreed to the affirma-
tive determination under section 322 are eli-
gible to vote on the recommendation re-
quired to be made under subsection (a).
(c) REPORT.—Not later than the date that
is 60 days after the date on which the deter-
mination is made under section 322, the Com-
mission shall submit to the President a re-
port that includes—
(1) the determination and an explanation
of the basis for the determination;
(2) if the determination is affirmative, rec-
ommendations for action and an explanation
of the basis for the recommendation; and
(3) any dissenting or separate views by
members of the Commission regarding the
determination.
(d) PUBLIC NOTICE.—Upon submitting a re-
port to the President under subsection (c),
the Commission shall—
(1) promptly make public the report (with
the exception of information which the Com-
mission determines to be confidential busi-
ness information); and
(2) publish a summary of the report in the
Federal Register.
SEC. 324. ACTION BY PRESIDENT WITH RESPECT
TO AFFIRMATIVE DETERMINATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than the date
that is 30 days after the date on which the
President receives a report of the Commis-
sion in which the Commission’s determina-
tion under section 322 is affirmative or which
contains a determination that the President
may treat as affirmative in accordance with
section 330(d)(1) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19
U.S.C. 1330(d)(1))—
(1) the President shall, subject to sub-
section (b), issue an order to the Secretary of
Transportation specifying the relief to be
provided, consistent with subsection (c), and
directing the relief to be carried out; and
(2) the Secretary of Transportation shall
carry out such relief.
(b) EXCEPTION.—The President is not re-
quired to provide relief under this section if
the President determines that provision of
such relief—
(1) is not in the national economic interest
of the United States; or
(2) would cause serious harm to the na-
tional security of the United States.
(c) NATURE OF RELIEF.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The relief the President is
authorized to provide under this subsection
is as follows:
(A)(i) With respect to a determination re-
lating to an investigation under section
322(a)(1), the denial or imposition of limita-
tions on a request for a new grant of author-
ity by the persons of Mexico that are the
subject of the investigation.
(ii) With respect to a determination relat-
ing to an investigation under section
322(a)(1), the revocation of, or restrictions
on, grants of authority issued to the persons
of Mexico that are the subject of the inves-
tigation since the date of the petition, re-
quest, or resolution.
(B) With respect to a determination relat-
ing to an investigation under section
322(a)(2) or (3), the revocation or imposition
of limitations on an existing grant of author-
ity by the persons of Mexico that are the
subject of the investigation.
(C) With respect to a determination relat-
ing to an investigation under section
322(a)(1), (2), or (3), a cap on the number of
grants of authority issued to persons of Mex-
ico annually.
(2) DEADLINE FOR RELIEF.—Not later than
15 days after the date on which the President
determines the relief to be provided under
this subsection, the President shall direct
the Secretary of Transportation to carry out
the relief.
(d) PERIOD OF RELIEF.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
any relief that the President provides under
this section may not be in effect for more
than 2 years.
(2) EXTENSION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(C), the President, after receiving a deter-
mination from the Commission under sub-
paragraph (B) that is affirmative, or which
contains a determination that the President
may treat as affirmative in accordance with
section 330(d)(1) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19
U.S.C. 1330(d)(1)(1)), may extend the effective
period of relief provided under this section
by up to an additional 4 years, if the Presi-
dent determines that the provision of the re-
lief continues to be necessary to remedy or
prevent material harm.
(B) ACTION BY COMMISSION.—
(i) INVESTIGATION.—Upon request of the
President, or upon the filing by an interested
party described in subparagraph (A), (B), or
(C) of section 321(8) which is representative
of a United States long-haul trucking serv-
ices industry that is filed with the Commis-
sion not earlier than the date that is 270
days, and not later than the date that is 240
days, before the date on which any action
taken under this section is to terminate, the
Commission shall conduct an investigation
to determine whether action under this sec-
tion continues to be necessary to remedy or
prevent material harm.
(ii) NOTICE AND HEARING.—The Commission
shall—
(I) publish notice of the commencement of
an investigation under clause (i) in the Fed-
eral Register; and
(II) within a reasonable time thereafter,
hold a public hearing at which the Commis-
sion shall afford interested parties an oppor-
tunity to be present, to present evidence,
and to respond to the presentations of other
parties and consumers, and otherwise be
heard.
(iii) REPORT.—Not later than the date that
is 60 days before relief provided under sub-
section (a) is to terminate, or such other
date as determined by the President, the
Commission shall submit to the President a
report on its investigation and determina-
tion under this subparagraph.
(C) PERIOD OF RELIEF.—Any relief provided
under this section, including any extension
thereof, may not, in the aggregate, be in ef-
fect for more than 6 years.
(D) LIMITATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), the Commission may not conduct
an investigation under subparagraph (B)(i)
if—
(I) the subject matter of the investigation
is the same as the subject matter of a pre-
vious investigation conducted under sub-
paragraph (B)(i); and
(II) less than 1 year has elapsed since the
Commission made its report to the President
of the results of such previous investigation.
(ii) EXCEPTION.—Clause (i) shall not apply
with respect to an investigation if the Com-
mission determines good cause exists to con-
duct the investigation.
(e) REGULATIONS.—The Commission and
the Secretary of Transportation are author-
ized to promulgate such rules and regula-
tions as may be necessary to carry out this
subtitle.
SEC. 325. CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS INFORMA-
TION.
Section 202(a)(8) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19
U.S.C. 2252(a)(8)) is amended in the first sen-
tence by striking ‘‘and title III of the United
States-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement
Implementation Act’’ and inserting ‘‘, title
III of the United States-Panama Trade Pro-
motion Agreement Implementation Act, and
subtitle C of title III of the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation
Act’’.
SEC. 326. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
(a) REGISTRATION OF MOTOR CARRIERS.—
Section 13902 of title 49, United States Code,
is amended by inserting at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(j) MEXICO-DOMICILED MOTOR CARRIERS.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, upon an order in accordance with
section 324(a) of the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement Implementation Act, the
Secretary shall carry out the relief specified
by denying or imposing limitations on a re-
quest for registration or capping the number
of requests for registration by Mexico-domi-
ciled motor carriers of cargo to operate be-
yond the municipalities along the United
States-Mexico international border and the
commercial zones of those municipalities as
directed.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12235
December 19, 2019
(b) EFFECTIVE PERIODS OF REGISTRATION.—
Section 13905 of title 49, United States Code,
is amended by inserting at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(g) MEXICO-DOMICILED MOTOR CARRIERS.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, upon an order in accordance with
section 324(a) of the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement Implementation Act, the
Secretary shall carry out the relief specified
by revoking or imposing limitations on ex-
isting registrations of Mexico-domiciled
motor carriers of cargo to operate beyond
the municipalities along the United States-
Mexico international border and the com-
mercial zones of those municipalities as di-
rected.’’.
SEC. 327. SURVEY OF OPERATING AUTHORITIES.
The Department of Transportation shall
undertake a survey of all existing grants of
operating authority to, and pending applica-
tions for operating authority from, all Mex-
ico-domiciled motor property carriers for op-
erating beyond the Border Commercial
Zones, including OP–1 (MX) operating au-
thority (Mexico-domiciled Carriers for Motor
Carrier Authority to Operate Beyond U.S.
Municipalities and Commercial Zones on the
U.S.-Mexico Border) and OP–1 operating au-
thority (United States-based Enterprise Car-
rier of International Cargo Application for
Motor Property Carrier and Broker Author-
ity). The Department of Transportation shall
prepare a report summarizing the results of
such survey not less than 180 days after the
date on which the USMCA enters into force,
which it shall deliver to the Office of the
United States Trade Representative, the
Commission, and the Chairs and Ranking
Members of the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure of the House of
Representatives, the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate, the Committee on Ways and Means
of the House of Representatives, and the
Committee on Finance of the Senate.
TITLE IV—ANTIDUMPING AND
COUNTERVAILING DUTIES
Subtitle A—Preventing Duty Evasion
SEC. 401. COOPERATION ON DUTY EVASION.
Section 414(b) of the Enforce and Protect
Act of 2015 (19 U.S.C. 4374(b)) is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘or a party to the USMCA
(as defined in section 3 of the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation
Act)’’ after ‘‘subsection (a)’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘or the USMCA, as the
case may be,’’ after ‘‘the bilateral agree-
ment’’.
Subtitle B—Dispute Settlement [reserved]
Subtitle C—Conforming Amendments
SEC. 421. JUDICIAL REVIEW IN ANTIDUMPING
DUTY AND COUNTERVAILING DUTY
CASES.
Section 516A of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19
U.S.C. 1516a) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (2)(B)(vii), by striking
‘‘the Tariff Act of 1930’’ and inserting ‘‘this
Act’’; and
(B) in paragraph (5)(D)(i), by striking ‘‘ar-
ticle 1904 of the NAFTA’’ and inserting ‘‘arti-
cle 10.12 of the USMCA’’;
(2) in subsection (b)(3)—
(A) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘NAFTA OR UNITED STATES-CANADA’’ and in-
serting ‘‘UNITED STATES-CANADA OR USMCA’’;
and
(B) in the text, by striking ‘‘of the NAFTA
or of the Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘of the
Agreement or article 10.12 of the USMCA’’;
(3) in subsection (f)—
(A) in paragraph (6)(A), by striking ‘‘arti-
cle 1908 of the NAFTA’’ and inserting ‘‘arti-
cle 10.16 of the USMCA’’;
(B) in paragraph (7)(A), by striking ‘‘article
1908 of the NAFTA’’ and inserting ‘‘article
10.16 of the USMCA’’;
(C) by striking paragraph (8);
(D) by redesignating paragraphs (9) and (10)
as paragraphs (8) and (9), respectively;
(E) in paragraph (9), as redesignated by
subparagraph (D), by striking subparagraphs
(A) and (B) and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) Canada for such time as the USMCA
is in force with respect to, and the United
States applies the USMCA to, Canada.
‘‘(B) Mexico for such time as the USMCA is
in force with respect to, and the United
States applies the USMCA to, Mexico.’’; and
(F) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(10) USMCA.—The term ‘USMCA’ has the
meaning given that term in section 3 of the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act.’’;
(4) in subsection (g)—
(A) in paragraph (2), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘of the
NAFTA or of the Agreement’’ and inserting
‘‘of the Agreement or article 10.12 of the
USMCA’’;
(B) in paragraph (3)(A)—
(i) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘of the NAFTA
or of the Agreement.’’ and inserting ‘‘of the
Agreement or article 10.12 of the USMCA;’’;
(ii) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘the NAFTA
or of the Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘the
Agreement or the USMCA’’;
(iii) in clause (v), by striking ‘‘paragraph 12
of article 1905 of the NAFTA’’ and inserting
‘‘article 10.13 of the USMCA’’; and
(iv) in clause (vi), by striking ‘‘paragraph
12 of article 1905 of the NAFTA’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘article 10.13 of the USMCA’’;
(C) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking ‘‘the
North American Free Trade Agreement’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘chapter 19 of the
Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘the United
States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement Imple-
mentation Act of 1988 implementing the bi-
national panel dispute settlement system
under chapter 19 of the Agreement, or the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act implementing the bina-
tional panel dispute settlement system
under chapter 10 of the USMCA’’;
(D) in paragraph (5)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘of the
NAFTA or of the Agreement’’ and inserting
‘‘of the Agreement or article 10.12 of the
USMCA’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘of the
NAFTA or of the Agreement’’ and inserting
‘‘of the Agreement or article 10.12 of the
USMCA’’; and
(iii) in subparagraph (C)—
(I) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘of the NAFTA
or of the Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘of the
Agreement or article 10.12 of the USMCA’’;
and
(II) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘of the
NAFTA or of the Agreement’’ and inserting
‘‘of the Agreement or chapter 10 of the
USMCA’’;
(E) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘of the
NAFTA or of the Agreement’’ and inserting
‘‘of the Agreement or article 10.12 of the
USMCA’’;
(F) in paragraph (7)—
(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘OF THE NAFTA OR THE AGREEMENT’’ and in-
serting ‘‘OF THE AGREEMENT OR ARTICLE 10.12
OF THE USMCA’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘the
NAFTA or the Agreement’’ and inserting
‘‘article 1904 of the Agreement or article
10.12 of the USMCA’’;
(G) in paragraph (8)—
(i) in subparagraph (A)—
(I) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘of the NAFTA
or of the Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘of the
Agreement or article 10.12 of the USMCA’’;
and
(II) in clause (ii)—
(aa) in the clause heading, by striking
‘‘NAFTA’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’; and
(bb) in the text, by striking ‘‘paragraph
11(a) of article 1905 of the NAFTA’’ and in-
serting ‘‘article 10.13 of the USMCA’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘of the
NAFTA or the Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘of
the Agreement or article 10.12 of the
USMCA’’;
(H) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘of the
NAFTA or of the Agreement’’ and inserting
‘‘of the Agreement or chapter 10 of the
USMCA’’;
(I) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘the
NAFTA or the Agreement’’ and inserting
‘‘the Agreement or under article 10.12 of the
USMCA’’;
(J) by striking paragraph (11) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(11) SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION OF SUS-
PENSION OF ARTICLE 10.12 OF THE USMCA.—
‘‘(A) SUSPENSION.—If a special committee
established under article 10.13 of the USMCA
issues an affirmative finding, the Trade Rep-
resentative may, in accordance with article
10.13 of the USMCA, suspend the operation of
article 10.12 of the USMCA.
‘‘(B) TERMINATION OF SUSPENSION.—If a spe-
cial committee is reconvened and makes an
affirmative determination described in arti-
cle 10.13 of the USMCA, any suspension of
the operation of article 10.12 of the USMCA
shall terminate.’’; and
(K) in paragraph (12)—
(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘NAFTA’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’;
(ii) by striking subparagraph (A) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(A) NOTICE OF SUSPENSION OR TERMINATION
OF SUSPENSION OF ARTICLE 10.12 OF THE
USMCA.—
‘‘(i) NOTICE OF SUSPENSION.—Upon notifica-
tion by the Trade Representative or the gov-
ernment of a country described in subpara-
graph (A) or (B) of subsection (f)(9) that the
operation of article 10.12 of the USMCA has
been suspended in accordance with article
10.13 of the USMCA, the United States Sec-
retary shall publish in the Federal Register
a notice of suspension of article 10.12 of the
USMCA.
‘‘(ii) NOTICE OF TERMINATION OF SUSPEN-
SION.—Upon notification by the Trade Rep-
resentative or the government of a country
described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of sub-
section (f)(9) that the suspension of the oper-
ation of article 10.12 of the USMCA is termi-
nated in accordance with article 10.13 of the
USMCA, the United States Secretary shall
publish in the Federal Register a notice of
termination of suspension of article 10.12 of
the USMCA.’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) in the subparagraph heading, by strik-
ing ‘‘ARTICLE 1904’’ and inserting ‘‘ARTICLE
10.12 OF THE USMCA’’; and
(II) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
striking ‘‘If’’ and all that follows through
‘‘NAFTA—’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘If
the operation of article 10.12 of the USMCA
is suspended in accordance with article 10.13
of the USMCA—’’;
(iv) in subparagraph (C)—
(I) in clause (i)—
(aa) in the matter preceding subclause (I),
by striking ‘‘if the United States’’ and all
that follows through ‘‘NAFTA—’’ and insert-
ing the following: ‘‘if the United States made
an allegation under article 10.13 of the
USMCA and the operation of article 10.12 of
the USMCA was suspended pursuant to arti-
cle 10.13 of the USMCA—’’; and
(bb) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘sub-
section (f)(10)(A) or (B)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
paragraph (A) or (B) of subsection (f)(9)’’; and
(II) in clause (ii), in the matter preceding
subclause (I), by striking ‘‘if a country’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘NAFTA—’’ and in-
serting the following: ‘‘if a country described
in subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (f)(9)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12236 December 19, 2019
made an allegation under article 10.13 of the
USMCA and the operation of article 10.12 of
the USMCA was suspended pursuant to arti-
cle 10.13 of the USMCA—’’; and
(v) in subparagraph (D)(i), by striking ‘‘a
country described’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘NAFTA’’ and inserting ‘‘a country
described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of sub-
section (f)(9) pursuant to article 10.13 of the
USMCA’’.
SEC. 422. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO OTHER
PROVISIONS OF THE TARIFF ACT OF
1930.
(a) DISCLOSURE OF PROPRIETARY INFORMA-
TION UNDER PROTECTIVE ORDERS.—Section
777(f) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C.
1677f(f)) is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT
OR THE UNITED STATES-CANADA AGREEMENT’’
and inserting ‘‘THE UNITED STATES-CANADA
AGREEMENT OR THE USMCA’’;
(2) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘arti-
cle 1904 of the NAFTA’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘, the administering authority’’ and
inserting ‘‘article 1904 of the United States-
Canada Agreement or article 10.12 of the
USMCA, or an extraordinary challenge com-
mittee is convened under Annex 1904.13 of
the United States-Canada Agreement or
chapter 10 of the USMCA, the administering
authority’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘chap-
ter 19 of the NAFTA or the Agreement’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘chapter 19 of
the Agreement or chapter 10 of the USMCA’’;
(3) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘the
NAFTA or the United States-Canada Agree-
ment’’ and inserting ‘‘article 1904 of the
United States-Canada Agreement or article
10.12 of the USMCA’’;
(4) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘section
402(b) of the North American Free Trade
Agreement Implementation Act’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘section 412(b) of the United States-Mex-
ico-Canada Agreement Implementation
Act’’; and
(5) by striking ‘‘section 516A(f)(10)’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘section
516A(f)(9)’’.
(b) DEFINITION.—Section 771 of the Tariff
Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1677) is amended by
striking paragraph (22) and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(22) USMCA.—The term ‘USMCA’ has the
meaning given that term in section 3 of the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act.’’.
SEC. 423. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TITLE
28, UNITED STATES CODE.
(a) COURT OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE.—Chap-
ter 95 of title 28, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in section 1581(i)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (1)
through (4) as subparagraphs (A) through
(D), respectively;
(B) by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ after ‘‘(i)’’;
(C) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated by
subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘paragraphs
(1)–(3) of this subsection’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
paragraphs (A) through (C) of this para-
graph’’; and
(D) by striking the flush text and inserting
the following:
‘‘(2) This subsection shall not confer juris-
diction over an antidumping or counter-
vailing duty determination which is review-
able by—
‘‘(A) the Court of International Trade
under section 516A(a) of the Tariff Act of 1930
(19 U.S.C. 1516a(a)); or
‘‘(B) a binational panel under section
516A(g) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C.
1516a(g)).’’;
(2) in section 1584, by striking the section
heading and inserting the following:
‘‘§ 1584. Civil actions under the United States-
Canada Free-Trade Agreement or the
USMCA’’;
and
(3) in the table of sections at the beginning
of the chapter, by striking the item relating
to section 1584 and inserting the following:
‘‘1584. Civil actions under the United States-
Canada Free-Trade Agreement
or the USMCA.’’.
(b) PARTICULAR PROCEEDINGS.—Sections
2201(a) and 2643(c)(5) of title 28, United States
Code, are each amended by striking ‘‘section
516A(f)(10)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
516A(f)(9)’’.
Subtitle D—General Provisions
SEC. 431. EFFECT OF TERMINATION OF USMCA
COUNTRY STATUS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), on the date on which a coun-
try ceases to be a USMCA country, the pro-
visions of this title (other than this section)
and the amendments made by this title shall
cease to have effect with respect to that
country.
(b) TRANSITION PROVISIONS.—
(1) PROCEEDINGS REGARDING PROTECTIVE OR-
DERS AND UNDERTAKINGS.—If on the date on
which a country ceases to be a USMCA coun-
try an investigation or enforcement pro-
ceeding concerning the violation of a protec-
tive order issued under section 777(f) of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (as amended by this title)
or an undertaking of the government of that
country is pending, the investigation or pro-
ceeding shall continue, and sanctions may
continue to be imposed, in accordance with
the provisions of such section 777(f) (as so
amended).
(2) BINATIONAL PANEL AND EXTRAORDINARY
CHALLENGE COMMITTEE REVIEWS.—If on the
date on which a country ceases to be a
USMCA country—
(A) a binational panel review under article
10.12 of the USMCA is pending, or has been
requested, or
(B) an extraordinary challenge committee
review under that article is pending, or has
been requested,
with respect to a determination which in-
volves a class or kind of merchandise and to
which subsection (g)(2) of section 516A of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1516a) applies,
such determination shall be reviewable
under subsection (a) of that section. In the
case of a determination to which the provi-
sions of this paragraph apply, the time lim-
its for commencing an action under 516A(a)
of the Tariff Act of 1930 shall not begin to
run until the date on which the USMCA
ceases to be in force with respect to that
country.
SEC. 432. EFFECTIVE DATE.
The provisions of this title and the amend-
ments made by this title shall take effect on
the date on which the USMCA enters into
force, but shall not apply—
(1) to any final determination described in
paragraph (1)(B) or clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of
paragraph (2)(B) of section 516A(a) of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1516a(a)) notice
of which is published in the Federal Register
before such date, or to a determination de-
scribed in paragraph (2)(B)(vi) of that section
notice of which is received by the Govern-
ment of Canada or Mexico before such date;
or
(2) to any binational panel review under
NAFTA, or any extraordinary challenge aris-
ing out of any such review, that was com-
menced before such date.
TITLE V—TRANSFER PROVISIONS AND
OTHER AMENDMENTS
SEC. 501. DRAWBACK.
(a) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 208 of
this Act is amended in the section heading
by striking ‘‘[RESERVED]’’.
(b) USMCA DRAWBACK.—Subsection (a) of
section 203 of the North American Free
Trade Agreement Implementation Act (19
U.S.C. 3333) is—
(1) transferred to section 208 of this Act;
(2) inserted after the section heading for
that section (as amended by subsection (a));
and
(3) amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘NAFTA country’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘USMCA
country’’;
(B) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘NAFTA’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’;
(C) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘and the amendments made
by subsection (b)’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘NAFTA drawback’’ and in-
serting ‘‘USMCA drawback’’;
(D) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘sort-
ing, marking,’’ after ‘‘repacking,’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘para-
graph 12 of section A of Annex 703.2 of the
Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph 11 of
Annex 3–B of the USMCA’’; and
(E) by amending paragraph (6) to read as
follows:
‘‘(6) A good provided for in subheading
1701.13.20 or 1701.14.20 of the HTS that is im-
ported under any re-export program or any
like program and that is—
‘‘(A) used as a material, or
‘‘(B) substituted for by a good of the same
kind and quality that is used as a material,
in the production of a good provided for in
existing Canadian tariff item 1701.99.00 or ex-
isting Mexican tariff item 1701.99.01,
1701.99.02, or 1701.99.99 (relating to refined
sugar).’’.
(c) SAME KIND AND QUALITY.—Section 208 of
this Act, as amended by subsection (b), is
further amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(b) SAME KIND AND QUALITY.—For pur-
poses of paragraphs (3)(A)(iii), (5)(C), (6)(B),
and (8) of subsection (a), and for purposes of
obtaining refunds, waivers, or reductions of
customs duties with respect to a good sub-
ject to USMCA drawback under section
313(n)(2) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C.
1313(n)(2)), a good is a good of the same kind
and quality as another good—
‘‘(1) for a good described in such paragraph
(6)(B), if the good would have been consid-
ered of the same kind and quality as the
other good on the day before the date on
which the USMCA enters into force; or
‘‘(2) for other goods if—
‘‘(A) the good is classified under the same
8-digit HTS subheading number as the other
good; or
‘‘(B) drawback would be allowed with re-
spect to the goods under subsection (b)(4),
(j)(1), or (p) of section 313 of the Tariff Act of
1930 (19 U.S.C. 1313).’’.
(d) CERTAIN FEES; INAPPLICABILITY TO
COUNTERVAILING AND ANTIDUMPING DUTIES.—
Subsections (d) and (e) of section 203 of the
North American Free Trade Agreement Im-
plementation Act (19 U.S.C. 3333) are—
(1) transferred to section 208 of this Act;
(2) inserted after subsection (b) of section
208 (as added by subsection (c));
(3) redesignated as subsections (c) and (d),
respectively; and
(4) amended, in subsection (c) (as redesig-
nated by paragraph (3)), by striking ‘‘ex-
ported to’’ and all that follows through the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘exported to
a USMCA country.’’.
(e) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) BONDED MANUFACTURING WAREHOUSES.—
Section 311 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C.
1311) is amended, in the eleventh paragraph—
(A) by striking ‘‘NAFTA’’ each place it ap-
pears;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:37 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12237
December 19, 2019
(B) by striking ‘‘section 203(a) of the North
American Free Trade Agreement Implemen-
tation Act’’ and inserting ‘‘section 208(a) of
the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘section 2(4) of that Act’’
and inserting ‘‘section 3 of that Act’’.
(2) BONDED SMELTING AND REFINING WARE-
HOUSES.—Section 312 of the Tariff Act of 1930
(19 U.S.C. 1312) is amended, in subsections (b)
and (d)—
(A) by striking ‘‘NAFTA’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘section 2(4) of the North
American Free Trade Agreement Implemen-
tation Act’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘section 3 of the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement Implementation Act’’;
and
(C) by striking ‘‘section 203(a) of that Act’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘section
208(a) of that Act’’.
(3) DRAWBACK AND REFUNDS.—Section 313 of
the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1313) is
amended—
(A) in subsection (j)(4), by striking sub-
paragraph (A) and inserting the following:
‘‘(A)(i) Effective upon the entry into force
of the USMCA, the exportation to a USMCA
country of merchandise that is fungible with
and substituted for imported merchandise,
other than merchandise described in para-
graphs (1) through (8) of section 208(a) of the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act, shall not constitute an
exportation for purposes of paragraph (2).
‘‘(ii) In this subparagraph, the terms
‘USMCA’ and ‘USMCA country’ have the
meanings given those terms in section 3 of
the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act.’’;
(B) in subsection (n)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking subpara-
graphs (A) and (B) and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) the term ‘USMCA country’ has the
meaning given that term in section 3 of the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act;
‘‘(B) the term ‘good subject to USMCA
drawback’ has the meaning given that term
in section 208(a) of the United States-Mex-
ico-Canada Agreement Implementation
Act;’’; and
(ii) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by striking
‘‘NAFTA’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘USMCA’’; and
(C) in subsection (o), by striking ‘‘NAFTA’’
each place it appears and inserting
‘‘USMCA’’.
(4) MANIPULATION IN WAREHOUSE.—Section
562 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1562) is
amended—
(A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) without payment of duties for expor-
tation to a USMCA country, as defined in
section 3 of the United States-Mexico-Can-
ada Agreement Implementation Act, if the
merchandise is of a kind described in any of
paragraphs (1) through (8) of section 208(a) of
that Act;’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by striking ‘‘section 203(a) of that Act’’
and inserting ‘‘section 208(a) of that Act’’;
and
(ii) by striking ‘‘NAFTA’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’; and
(C) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by striking
‘‘NAFTA’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘USMCA’’.
(5) FOREIGN TRADE ZONES.—Section 3(a)(2)
of the Act of June 18, 1934 (commonly known
as the ‘‘Foreign Trade Zones Act’’) (19 U.S.C.
81c(a)(2)) is amended, in the flush text—
(A) by striking ‘‘goods subject to NAFTA
drawback, as defined in section 203(a) of the
North American Free Trade Agreement Im-
plementation Act’’ and inserting ‘‘goods sub-
ject to USMCA drawback, as defined in sec-
tion 208(a) of the United States-Mexico-Can-
ada Agreement Implementation Act’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘a NAFTA country, as de-
fined in section 2(4) of that Act’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘a USMCA country, as defined in section
3 of that Act’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘NAFTA’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’.
(f) ADDITIONAL CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The
table of contents for this Act is amended by
striking the item relating to section 208 and
inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 208. Drawback.’’.
(g) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each transfer, redesigna-
tion, and amendment made by subsections
(b) through (e) shall—
(A) take effect on the date on which the
USMCA enters into force; and
(B) apply with respect to a good entered, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption,
on or after that date.
(2) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA TREATMENT.—In
the case of a good entered, or withdrawn
from warehouse for consumption, before the
date on which the USMCA enters into force—
(A) the amendments made by subsections
(b) through (e) shall not apply with respect
to the good; and
(B) the provisions of law amended by such
subsections, as such provisions were in effect
on the day before that date, shall continue
to apply on and after that date with respect
to the good.
SEC. 502. RELIEF FROM INJURY CAUSED BY IM-
PORT COMPETITION.
(a) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—Subtitle A of
title III of this Act is amended in the sub-
title heading by striking ‘‘[reserved]’’.
(b) ARTICLE IMPACT IN IMPORT RELIEF
CASES.—Section 311 of the North American
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
(19 U.S.C. 3371) is—
(1) transferred to subtitle A of title III of
this Act;
(2) inserted after the heading (as amended
by subsection (a)) of such subtitle;
(3) redesignated as section 301; and
(4) amended—
(A) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘NAFTA’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’;
(B) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘section
312(a)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 302(a)’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘NAFTA’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’.
(c) PRESIDENTIAL ACTION REGARDING IM-
PORTS.—Section 312 of the North American
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
(19 U.S.C. 3372) is—
(1) transferred to subtitle A of title III of
this Act;
(2) inserted after section 301 (as inserted
and redesignated by subsection (b));
(3) redesignated as section 302; and
(4) amended—
(A) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘NAFTA’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’;
(B) in subsection (b), in the subsection
heading, by striking ‘‘NAFTA’’ and inserting
‘‘USMCA’’;
(C) in subsection (c), in the subsection
heading, by striking ‘‘NAFTA’’ and inserting
‘‘USMCA’’; and
(D) by striking ‘‘NAFTA’’ each place it ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’.
(d) ADDITIONAL CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
The table of contents for this Act is amended
by striking the item relating to subtitle A of
title III and inserting the following:
‘‘Subtitle A—Relief From Injury Caused by
Import Competition
‘‘Sec. 301. USMCA article impact in import
relief cases under the Trade Act
of 1974.
‘‘Sec. 302. Presidential action regarding
USMCA imports.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each transfer, redesigna-
tion, and amendment made by this section
shall—
(A) take effect on the date on which the
USMCA enters into force; and
(B) apply with respect to an investigation
under chapter 1 of title II of the Trade Act of
1974 (19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.) initiated on or
after that date.
(2) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA.—In the case of
an investigation under chapter 1 of title II of
the Trade Act of 1974 initiated before the
date on which the USMCA enters into force—
(A) the transfers, redesignations, and
amendments made by this section shall not
apply with respect to the investigation; and
(B) sections 311 and 312 of the North Amer-
ican Free Trade Agreement Implementation
Act (19 U.S.C. 3371 and 3372), as in effect on
the day before that date, shall continue to
apply on and after that date with respect to
the investigation.
SEC. 503. TEMPORARY ENTRY.
(a) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—Subtitle B of
title III of this Act is amended in the sub-
title heading by striking ‘‘[reserved]’’.
(b) NONIMMIGRANT TRADERS AND INVES-
TORS.—Section 341 of the North American
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
(Public Law 103–182; 107 Stat. 2116) is—
(1) transferred to subtitle B of title III of
this Act;
(2) inserted after the heading (as amended
by subsection (a)) of such subtitle;
(3) redesignated as section 311; and
(4) amended—
(A) by striking subsections (b) and (c);
(B) by striking ‘‘(a)’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘Upon’’ and inserting ‘‘Upon’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘the Agreement’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘the USMCA’’;
(D) by striking ‘‘Annex 1603’’ and inserting
‘‘Annex 16–A’’; and
(E) by striking ‘‘Annex 1608’’ and inserting
‘‘article 16.1’’.
(c) NONIMMIGRANT PROFESSIONALS.—Sec-
tion 214 of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1184) is amended—
(1) in subsection (e)—
(A) by striking paragraphs (1), (3), (4), and
(5);
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (6)
as paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively; and
(C) in paragraph (1), as redesignated by
subparagraph (B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Annex 1603 of the North
American Free Trade Agreement (in this
subsection referred to as ‘NAFTA’)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Annex 16–A of the USMCA (as de-
fined in section 3 of the United States-Mex-
ico-Canada Agreement Implementation
Act)’’; and
(ii) by striking the third and fourth sen-
tences and inserting the following: ‘‘For pur-
poses of this paragraph, the term ‘citizen of
Mexico’ means ‘citizen’ as defined in article
16.1 of the USMCA.’’; and
(2) in subsection (j)(1)—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking
‘‘Annex 1603 of the North American Free
Trade Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘Annex 16–
A of the USMCA (as defined in section 3 of
the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act)’’;
(B) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘ar-
ticle 1603 of such Agreement’’ and inserting
‘‘article 16.4 of the USMCA’’; and
(C) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘Annex 1608 of such Agreement’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘article 16.1 of the USMCA’’.
(d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) INTEGRATED ENTRY AND EXIT DATA SYS-
TEM.—Section 110(c)(1)(B) of the Illegal Im-
migration Reform and Immigrant Responsi-
bility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1365a(c)(1)(B)) is
amended by striking ‘‘North American Free
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:38 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12238 December 19, 2019
Trade Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA
(as defined in section 3 of the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation
Act)’’.
(2) ENHANCED BORDER SECURITY AND VISA
ENTRY REFORM ACT OF 2002.—Section 604 of the
Enhanced Border Security and Visa Entry
Reform Act of 2002 (8 U.S.C. 1773) is amended
by striking ‘‘North American Free Trade
Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA (as de-
fined in section 3 of the United States-Mex-
ico-Canada Agreement Implementation
Act)’’.
(e) ADDITIONAL CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
The table of contents for this Act is amended
by striking the item relating to subtitle A of
title III and inserting the following:
‘‘Subtitle B—Temporary Entry of Business
Persons
‘‘Sec. 311. Temporary entry.’’.
(f) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each transfer, redesigna-
tion, and amendment made by this section
shall—
(A) take effect on the date on which the
USMCA enters into force; and
(B) apply with respect to a visa issued on
or after that date.
(2) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA.—In the case of
a visa issued before the date on which the
USMCA enters into force—
(A) the transfers, redesignations, and
amendments made by this section shall not
apply with respect to the visa; and
(B) the provisions of law amended by sub-
sections (b) through (d), as such provisions
were in effect on the day before that date,
shall continue to apply on and after that
date with respect to the visa.
SEC. 504. DISPUTE SETTLEMENT IN ANTI-
DUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING
DUTY CASES.
(a) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—Subtitle B of
title IV of this Act is amended in the sub-
title heading by striking ‘‘[reserved]’’.
(b) REFERENCES IN SUBTITLE.—Section 401
of the North American Free Trade Agree-
ment Implementation Act (19 U.S.C. 3431)
is—
(1) transferred to subtitle B of title IV of
this Act and inserted after the heading (as
amended by subsection (a)) of such subtitle;
(2) redesignated as section 411; and
(3) amended by striking ‘‘the Agreement’’
and inserting ‘‘the USMCA’’.
(c) ORGANIZATIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
PROVISIONS.—Section 402 of the North Amer-
ican Free Trade Agreement Implementation
Act (19 U.S.C. 3432) is—
(1) transferred to subtitle B of title IV of
this Act and inserted after section 411 (as in-
serted and redesignated by subsection (b));
(2) redesignated as section 412; and
(3) amended—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in paragraph (1)—
(I) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘in
paragraph 1’’ and all that follows and insert-
ing ‘‘in paragraph 1 of Annex 10–B.1 and para-
graph 1 of Annex 10–B.3; and’’;
(II) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘chap-
ter 19’’ and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’; and
(III) in the matter following subparagraph
(E), by striking ‘‘in paragraph 1’’ and all that
follows through ‘‘Annex 1904.13’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘in paragraph 1 of Annex 10–B.1 and para-
graph 1 of Annex 10–B.3’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2)—
(I) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘UNDER’’ and all that follows before the pe-
riod; and
(II) in the text—
(aa) by striking ‘‘paragraph 1 of Annex
1901.2’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph 1 of Annex
10–B.1’’;
(bb) by striking ‘‘chapter 19’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’; and
(cc) by striking ‘‘article 1905’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘article 10.13’’;
(B) in subsection (b)(1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘chapter 19’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘article 1905’’ and inserting
‘‘article 10.13’’;
(C) in subsection (c)—
(i) in paragraph (1)—
(I) by striking ‘‘chapter 19’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘article 1905’’ and inserting
‘‘article 10.13’’;
(ii) in paragraph (2)(B)—
(I) by striking ‘‘chapter 19’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’; and
(II) in clause (i)(II), by striking ‘‘article
1905’’ and inserting ‘‘article 10.13’’;
(iii) in paragraph (3)—
(I) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking
‘‘Annex 1901.2’’ and inserting ‘‘Annex 10–B.1’’;
(II) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking
‘‘under Annex 1904.13’’ and all that follows
and inserting ‘‘under Annex 10–B.3 and spe-
cial committees under article 10.13.’’; and
(III) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking
‘‘chapter 19’’ and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’; and
(iv) in paragraph (4)—
(I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘chap-
ter 19’’ and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’; and
(II) in subparagraph (C)(iv)(III), by striking
‘‘chapter 19’’ and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’;
(D) in subsection (d)—
(i) in paragraph (1)—
(I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘in
paragraph 1’’ and all that follows and insert-
ing ‘‘in paragraph 1 of Annex 10–B.1 and para-
graph 1 of Annex 10–B.3; or’’; and
(II) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘chap-
ter 19’’ and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’;
(ii) in paragraph (2)—
(I) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking ‘‘in
paragraph 1’’ and all that follows through
‘‘during’’ and inserting ‘‘in paragraph 1 of
Annex 10–B.1 and paragraph 1 of Annex 10–B.3
during’’;
(II) in subparagraph (A)(ii)—
(aa) by striking ‘‘chapter 19’’ and inserting
‘‘chapter 10’’; and
(bb) by striking ‘‘the Agreement’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the USMCA’’;
(III) in subparagraph (A)(iii), by striking
‘‘NAFTA’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’;
(IV) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ‘‘in
paragraph 1’’ and all that follows and insert-
ing ‘‘in paragraph 1 of Annex 10–B.1 and para-
graph 1 of Annex 10–B.3; or’’; and
(V) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking
‘‘chapter 19’’ and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’; and
(iii) in paragraph (3)—
(I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘in
paragraph 1’’ and all that follows through
‘‘during’’ and inserting ‘‘in paragraph 1 of
Annex 10–B.1 and paragraph 1 of Annex 10–B.3
during’’; and
(II) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘chap-
ter 19’’ and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’;
(E) in subsection (e), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘the Agreement’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the USMCA’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘between the United
States’’ and all that follows through
‘‘NAFTA country’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘January 3, 1994’’ and in-
serting ‘‘January 3, 2020’’;
(F) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘chapter
19’’ and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’;
(G) in subsection (g), by striking ‘‘chapter
19’’ and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’; and
(H) in subsection (h), by striking ‘‘chapter
19’’ and inserting ‘‘chapter 10’’.
(d) TESTIMONY AND PRODUCTION OF PA-
PERS.—Section 403 of the North American
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
(19 U.S.C. 3433) is—
(1) transferred to subtitle B of title IV of
this Act and inserted after section 412 (as in-
serted and redesignated by subsection (c));
(2) redesignated as section 413; and
(3) amended in subsection (a), in the mat-
ter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
‘‘under paragraph 13’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘the committee—’’ and inserting
‘‘under paragraph 13 of article 10.12, and the
allegations before the committee include a
matter referred to in paragraph 13(a)(i) of ar-
ticle 10.12, for the purposes of carrying out
its functions and duties under Annex 10–B.3,
the committee—’’.
(e) REQUESTS FOR REVIEW OF DETERMINA-
TIONS.—Section 404 of the North American
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act
(19 U.S.C. 3434) is—
(1) transferred to subtitle B of title IV of
this Act and inserted after section 413 (as in-
serted and redesignated by subsection (d));
(2) redesignated as section 414; and
(3) amended—
(A) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘OF
NAFTA COUNTRIES’’;
(B) in subsection (a)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘article
1911’’ and all that follows and inserting ‘‘ar-
ticle 10.8, of a USMCA country.’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘article
1908’’ and inserting ‘‘article 10.16’’;
(C) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘article
1904’’ and inserting ‘‘article 10.12’’; and
(D) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘article
1904’’ each place it appears and inserting ‘‘ar-
ticle 10.12’’.
(f) RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR PANELS AND
COMMITTEES.—Section 405 of the North
American Free Trade Agreement Implemen-
tation Act (19 U.S.C. 3435) is—
(1) transferred to subtitle B of title IV of
this Act and inserted after section 414 (as in-
serted and redesignated by subsection (e));
(2) redesignated as section 415; and
(3) amended—
(A) in subsection (a), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘article
1904’’ and inserting ‘‘article 10.12’’;
(B) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘Annex
1904.13’’ and inserting ‘‘Annex 10–B.3’’; and
(C) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘Annex
1905.6’’ and inserting ‘‘Annex 10–B.4’’.
(g) SUBSIDY NEGOTIATIONS.—Section 406 of
the North American Free Trade Agreement
Implementation Act (19 U.S.C. 3436) is—
(1) transferred to subtitle B of title IV of
this Act and inserted after section 415 (as in-
serted and redesignated by subsection (f));
(2) redesignated as section 416; and
(3) amended, in the matter preceding para-
graph (1), by striking ‘‘NAFTA country’’ and
inserting ‘‘USMCA country’’.
(h) IDENTIFICATION OF INDUSTRIES FACING
SUBSIDIZED IMPORTS.—Section 407 of the
North American Free Trade Agreement Im-
plementation Act (19 U.S.C. 3437) is—
(1) transferred to subtitle B of title IV of
this Act and inserted after section 416 (as in-
serted and redesignated by subsection (g));
(2) redesignated as section 417; and
(3) amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(1)(A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘the Agreement’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the USMCA’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘NAFTA country’’ and in-
serting ‘‘USMCA country’’;
(B) in subsection (c), in the matter fol-
lowing paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘NAFTA
countries’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA coun-
tries’’; and
(C) in subsection (d)(3), by striking ‘‘the
Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘the USMCA’’.
(i) TREATMENT OF AMENDMENTS TO LAW.—
Section 408 of the North American Free
Trade Agreement Implementation Act (19
U.S.C. 3438) is—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:39 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12239
December 19, 2019
(1) transferred to subtitle B of title IV of
this Act and inserted after section 417 (as in-
serted and redesignated by subsection (h));
(2) redesignated as section 418; and
(3) amended—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘the Agreement’’ and all that
follows through ‘‘United States’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘the USMCA’’; and
(B) in the flush text, by striking ‘‘NAFTA
country’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA country’’.
(j) ADDITIONAL CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—
The table of contents for this Act is amended
by striking the item relating to subtitle B of
title IV and inserting the following:
‘‘Subtitle B—Dispute Settlement
‘‘Sec. 411. References in subtitle.
‘‘Sec. 412. Organizational and administrative
provisions.
‘‘Sec. 413. Testimony and production of pa-
pers in extraordinary chal-
lenges.
‘‘Sec. 414. Requests for review of determina-
tion by competent inves-
tigating authorities.
‘‘Sec. 415. Rules of procedure for panels and
committees.
‘‘Sec. 416. Subsidy negotiations.
‘‘Sec. 417. Identification of industries facing
subsidized imports.
‘‘Sec. 418. Treatment of amendments to
antidumping and counter-
vailing duty law.’’.
(k) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each transfer, redesigna-
tion, and amendment made by this section
shall take effect on the date on which the
USMCA enters into force, but shall not
apply—
(A) to any final determination described in
paragraph (1)(B) or clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of
paragraph (2)(B) of section 516A(a) of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1516a(a)) notice
of which is published in the Federal Register
before such date, or to a determination de-
scribed in paragraph (2)(B)(vi) of that section
notice of which is received by the Govern-
ment of Canada or Mexico before such date;
and
(B) to any binational panel review under
NAFTA, or any extraordinary challenge aris-
ing out of any such review, that was com-
menced before such date.
(2) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA.—The transfers,
redesignations, and amendments made by
this section shall not apply, and the provi-
sions of title IV of the North American Free
Trade Agreement Implementation Act, as in
effect on the day before the date on which
the USMCA enters into force, shall continue
to apply on and after that date with re-
spect—
(A) to any final determination described in
paragraph (1)(B) or clause (i), (ii), or (iii) of
paragraph (2)(B) of section 516A(a) of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1516a(a)) notice
of which is published in the Federal Register
before such date, or to a determination de-
scribed in paragraph (2)(B)(vi) of that section
notice of which is received by the Govern-
ment of Canada or Mexico before the date on
which the USMCA enters into force; and
(B) to any binational panel review under
NAFTA, or any extraordinary challenge aris-
ing out of any such review, that was com-
menced before the date on which the USMCA
enters into force.
SEC. 505. GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MODIFY DIS-
CRIMINATORY PURCHASING REQUIREMENTS.—
Section 301 of the Trade Agreements Act of
1979 (19 U.S.C. 2511) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ‘‘the
North American Free Trade Agreement’’ and
inserting ‘‘the USMCA (as defined in section
3 of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment Implementation Act)’’; and
(2) in subsection (e)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Annex 1001.1a–2 of the
North American Free Trade Agreement’’ and
inserting ‘‘Annex 13–A of the USMCA (as de-
fined in section 3 of the United States-Mex-
ico-Canada Agreement Implementation
Act)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘chapter 10 of such Agree-
ment’’ and inserting ‘‘chapter 13 of the
USMCA’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Section 308(4)(A)(ii) of
the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C.
2518(4)(A)(ii)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘a party to the North Amer-
ican Free Trade Agreement,’’ and inserting
‘‘Mexico, as a party to the USMCA (as de-
fined in section 3 of the United States-Mex-
ico-Canada Agreement Implementation
Act),’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘the North American Free
Trade Agreement for’’ and inserting ‘‘the
USMCA for’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by
subsections (a) and (b) shall—
(A) take effect on the date on which the
USMCA enters into force; and
(B) apply with respect to a procurement on
or after that date.
(2) TRANSITION FROM NAFTA TREATMENT.—In
the case of a procurement before the date on
which the USMCA enters into force—
(A) the amendments made by subsections
(a) and (b) to sections 301 and 308 of the
Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2511
and 2518) shall not apply with respect to the
contract; and
(B) sections 301 and 308 of such Act, as in
effect on the day before that date, shall con-
tinue to apply on and after that date with re-
spect to the contract.
SEC. 506. ACTIONS AFFECTING UNITED STATES
CULTURAL INDUSTRIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 182(f) of the
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2242(f)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking ‘‘article
2106 of the North American Free Trade
Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘article 32.6 of the
USMCA (as defined in section 3 of the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implemen-
tation Act)’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘article
2106 of the North American Free Trade
Agreement’’ and inserting ‘‘article 32.6 of the
USMCA’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date on which the USMCA enters into
force.
SEC. 507. REGULATORY TREATMENT OF URA-
NIUM PURCHASES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1017(c) of the En-
ergy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 2296b–6(c))
is amended by striking ‘‘North American
Free Trade Agreement’’ and inserting
‘‘USMCA (as defined in section 3 of the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act)’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date on which the USMCA enters into
force.
SEC. 508. REPORT ON AMENDMENTS TO EXISTING
LAW.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Trade Rep-
resentative shall submit to the Committee
on Finance of the Senate and the Committee
on Ways and Means of the House of Rep-
resentatives a report setting forth a proposal
for technical and conforming amendments to
the laws under the jurisdiction of such com-
mittees, and other laws, necessary to fully
carry out the provisions of, and amendments
made by, this Act.
TITLE VI—TRANSITION TO AND
EXTENSION OF USMCA
Subtitle A—Transitional Provisions
SEC. 601. REPEAL OF NORTH AMERICAN FREE
TRADE AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTA-
TION ACT.
The North American Free Trade Agree-
ment Implementation Act (Public Law 103–
182; 19 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) is repealed, effec-
tive on the date on which the USMCA enters
into force.
SEC. 602. CONTINUED SUSPENSION OF THE
UNITED STATES-CANADA FREE-
TRADE AGREEMENT.
Section 501(c)(3) of the United States-Can-
ada Free-Trade Agreement Implementation
Act of 1988 (Public Law 100–449; 19 U.S.C. 2112
note) is amended—
(1) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘NAFTA’’ and inserting ‘‘USMCA’’; and
(2) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘between them of the North
American Free Trade Agreement’’ and in-
serting ‘‘of the USMCA (as defined in section
3 of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment Implementation Act)’’.
Subtitle B—Joint Reviews Regarding
Extension of USMCA
SEC. 611. PARTICIPATION IN JOINT REVIEWS
WITH CANADA AND MEXICO RE-
GARDING EXTENSION OF THE TERM
OF THE USMCA AND OTHER ACTION
REGARDING THE USMCA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Pursuant to the require-
ments of this section, the President shall
consult with the appropriate congressional
committees and stakeholders before each
joint review, including consultation with re-
spect to—
(1) any recommendation for action to be
proposed at the review; and
(2) the decision whether or not to confirm
that the United States wishes to extend the
USMCA.
(b) CONSULTATIONS WITH CONGRESS AND
STAKEHOLDERS.—
(1) PUBLICATION AND PUBLIC HEARING.—At
least 270 days before a joint review com-
mences, the Trade Representative shall pub-
lish in the Federal Register a notice regard-
ing the joint review and shall, as soon as pos-
sible following such publication, provide op-
portunity for the presentation of views relat-
ing to the operation of the USMCA, includ-
ing a public hearing.
(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—At least 180 days
before a 6-year joint review under article 34.7
of the USMCA commences, the Trade Rep-
resentative shall report to the appropriate
congressional committees regarding—
(A) the assessment of the Trade Represent-
ative with respect to the operation of the
USMCA;
(B) the precise recommendation for action
to be proposed at the review and the position
of the United States with respect to whether
to extend the term of the USMCA;
(C) what, if any, prior efforts have been
made to resolve any concern that underlies
that recommendation or position; and
(D) the views of the advisory committees
established under section 135 of the Trade
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2155) regarding that rec-
ommendation or position.
(c) SUBSEQUENT ACTION TO ADDRESS LACK
OF AGREEMENT ON TERM EXTENSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If, as part of a joint re-
view, any USMCA country does not confirm
that the country wishes to extend the term
of the USMCA under article 34.7.3 of the
USMCA, at least 70 days before any subse-
quent annual joint review meeting conducted
as required under article 34.7 of the USMCA,
the Trade Representative shall report to the
appropriate congressional committees re-
garding—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:39 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12240 December 19, 2019
(A) any reason offered by a USMCA coun-
try regarding why the country is unable to
agree to extend the term of the USMCA;
(B) the progress that has been made in ef-
forts to achieve resolution of the concerns of
that country;
(C) any proposed action that the Trade
Representative intends to raise during the
meeting; and
(D) the views of the advisory committees
established under section 135 of the Trade
Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2155) regarding the rea-
sons described in subparagraph (A) and any
proposed action under subparagraph (C).
(2) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—The Trade
Representative shall also provide detailed
and timely information in response to any
questions posed by the appropriate congres-
sional committees with respect to any meet-
ing described in paragraph (1), including by
submitting to those committees copies of
any proposed text that the Trade Represent-
ative plans to submit to the other parties to
the meeting.
(d) CONGRESSIONAL ENGAGEMENT AFTER
JOINT REVIEW.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 20 days
after the USMCA countries have met for a
joint review, the Trade Representative shall
brief the appropriate congressional commit-
tees regarding the positions expressed by the
countries during the joint review and what,
if any, actions were agreed to by the coun-
tries.
(2) CONTINUED ENGAGEMENT.—After a joint
review, the Trade Representative shall keep
the appropriate congressional committees
timely apprised of any developments arising
out of or related to the review.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) JOINT REVIEW.—The term ‘‘joint review’’
means a review conducted under the process
provided for in article 34.7 of the USMCA re-
lating to extension of the term of the
USMCA.
(2) USMCA COUNTRY.—The term ‘‘USMCA
country’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 202(a).
Subtitle C—Termination of USMCA
SEC. 621. TERMINATION OF USMCA.
(a) TERMINATION OF USMCA COUNTRY STA-
TUS.—During any period in which a country
ceases to be a USMCA country, this Act
(other than this subsection and title IX) and
the amendments made by this Act shall
cease to have effect with respect to that
country.
(b) TERMINATION OF USMCA.—On the date
on which the USMCA ceases to be in force
with respect to the United States, this Act
and the amendments made by this Act (other
than this subsection and title IX) shall cease
to have effect.
TITLE VII—LABOR MONITORING AND
ENFORCEMENT
SEC. 701. DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) LABOR ATTACHÉ.—The term ‘‘labor
attaché’’ means an individual hired under
subtitle B.
(2) LABOR OBLIGATIONS.—The term ‘‘labor
obligations’’ means the obligations under
chapter 23 of the USMCA (relating to labor).
(3) MEXICO’S LABOR REFORM.—The term
‘‘Mexico’s labor reform’’ means the legisla-
tion on labor reform enacted by Mexico on
May 1, 2019.
Subtitle A—Interagency Labor Committee for
Monitoring and Enforcement
SEC. 711. INTERAGENCY LABOR COMMITTEE FOR
MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall establish an Interagency
Labor Committee for Monitoring and En-
forcement (in this title referred to as the
‘‘Interagency Labor Committee’’), to coordi-
nate United States efforts with respect to
each USMCA country—
(1) to monitor the implementation and
maintenance of the labor obligations;
(2) to monitor the implementation and
maintenance of Mexico’s labor reform; and
(3) to request enforcement actions with re-
spect to a USMCA country that is not in
compliance with such labor obligations.
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The Interagency Labor
Committee shall—
(1) be co-chaired by the Trade Representa-
tive and the Secretary of Labor; and
(2) include representatives of such other
Federal departments or agencies with rel-
evant expertise as the President determines
appropriate.
(c) MEETINGS.—The Interagency Labor
Committee shall meet at least once every 90
days during the 5-year period beginning on
the date of the enactment of this Act, and at
least once every 180 days thereafter for 5
years.
(d) INFORMATION SHARING.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, the
members of the Interagency Labor Com-
mittee may exchange information for pur-
poses of carrying out this title.
SEC. 712. DUTIES.
The duties of the Interagency Labor Com-
mittee shall include the following:
(1) Coordinating the activities of depart-
ments and agencies of the Committee in
monitoring implementation of and compli-
ance with labor obligations, including by—
(A) requesting and reviewing relevant in-
formation from the governments of USMCA
countries and from the public;
(B) coordinating visits to Mexico as nec-
essary to assess implementation of Mexico’s
labor reform and compliance with the labor
obligations of Mexico;
(C) receiving and reviewing quarterly as-
sessments from the labor attachés with re-
spect to the implementation of and compli-
ance with Mexico’s labor reform; and
(D) coordinating with the Secretary of
Treasury with respect to support relating to
labor issues provided to Mexico by the Inter-
American Development Bank.
(2) Establishing an ongoing dialogue with
appropriate officials of the Government of
Mexico regarding the implementation of
Mexico’s labor reform and compliance with
its labor obligations.
(3) Coordinating with other institutions
and governments with respect to support re-
lating to labor issues, such as the Inter-
national Labour Organization and the Gov-
ernment of Canada.
(4) Identifying priority issues for capacity-
building activities in Mexico to be funded by
the United States, drawing primarily on the
expertise of the Department of Labor.
(5) Meeting, at least biannually during the
5-year period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act and at least annually
for 5 years thereafter, with the Labor Advi-
sory Committee for Trade Negotiations and
Trade Policy established under section
135(c)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
2155(c)(1)) (or any successor advisory com-
mittee) to consult and provide opportunities
for input with respect to—
(A) the implementation of Mexico’s labor
reform;
(B) labor capacity-building activities in
Mexico funded by the United States;
(C) labor monitoring efforts;
(D) labor enforcement priorities; and
(E) other relevant issues.
(6) Based on the assessments required by
section 714, making recommendations relat-
ing to dispute settlement actions to the
Trade Representative, in accordance with
section 715.
(7) Based on reports provided by the Forced
Labor Enforcement Task Force under sec-
tion 743, developing recommendations for ap-
propriate enforcement actions by the Trade
Representative.
(8) Reviewing reports submitted by the
labor experts appointed in accordance with
Annex 31–A of the USMCA, with respect to
the functioning of that Annex.
(9) Reviewing reports submitted by the
Independent Mexico Labor Expert Board
under section 734.
SEC. 713. ENFORCEMENT PRIORITIES.
The Interagency Labor Committee shall—
(1) review the list of priority sectors under
Annex 31–A of the USMCA and suggest to
USTR additional sectors for review by the
USMCA countries as appropriate;
(2) establish and annually update a list of
priority subsectors within such priority sec-
tors to be the focus of the enforcement ef-
forts of the Committee, the first of which
shall consist of—
(A) auto assembly;
(B) auto parts;
(C) aerospace;
(D) industrial bakeries;
(E) electronics;
(F) call centers;
(G) mining; and
(H) steel and aluminum; and
(3) review priority facilities within such
priority subsectors for monitoring and en-
forcement.
SEC. 714. ASSESSMENTS.
(a) ONGOING ASSESSMENTS.—For the 10-year
period beginning on the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, except as provided in sub-
section (b), the Interagency Labor Com-
mittee shall assess on a biannual basis the
extent to which Mexico is in compliance
with its obligations under Annex 23–A of the
USMCA.
(b) CONSULTATION RELATING TO ANNUAL AS-
SESSMENT.—On or after the date that is 5
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Interagency Labor Committee may
consult with the appropriate congressional
committees with respect to the frequency of
the assessment required under subsection (a)
and, with the approval of both such commit-
tees, may conduct such assessment on an an-
nual basis for the following 5 years.
(c) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The assess-
ment required under subsection (a) shall also
include each of the following:
(1) Whether Mexico is providing adequate
funding to implement and enforce Mexico’s
labor reform, including specifically whether
Mexico has provided funding consistent with
commitments made to contribute the fol-
lowing amounts for the labor reform imple-
mentation budget:
(A) $176,000,000 for 2021.
(B) $325,000,000 for 2022.
(C) $328,000,000 for 2023.
(2) The extent to which any legal chal-
lenges to Mexico’s labor reform have suc-
ceeded in that court system.
(3) The extent to which Mexico has imple-
mented the federal and state labor courts,
registration entity, and federal and state
conciliation centers consistent with the
timeline set forth for Mexico’s labor reform,
in the September 2019 policy statements by
the Government of Mexico on a national
strategy for implementation of the labor jus-
tice system, and in subsequent policy state-
ments in accordance with Mexico’s labor re-
form.
SEC. 715. RECOMMENDATION FOR ENFORCE-
MENT ACTION.
(a) RECOMMENDATION TO INITIATE.—If the
Interagency Labor Committee determines,
pursuant to an assessment under section 714,
as a result of monitoring activities described
in section 712(1), or pursuant to a report of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12241
December 19, 2019
the Independent Mexico Labor Expert Board
that a USMCA country has failed to meets
its labor obligations, including with respect
to obligations under Annex 23–A of the
USMCA, the Committee shall recommend
that the Trade Representative initiate en-
forcement actions under—
(1) article 23.13 or 23.17 of the USMCA (re-
lating to cooperative labor dialogue and
labor consultations);
(2) articles 31.4 and 31.6 of the USMCA (re-
lating to dispute settlement consultations);
or
(3) Annex 31–A of the USMCA (relating to
the rapid response labor mechanism).
(b) TRADE REPRESENTATIVE DETERMINA-
TIONS.—Not later than 60 days after the date
on which the Trade Representative receives
a recommendation pursuant to subsection
(a), the Trade Representative shall—
(1) determine whether to initiate an en-
forcement action; and
(2) if such determination is negative, sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees a report on the reasons for such neg-
ative determination.
SEC. 716. PETITION PROCESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Interagency Labor
Committee shall establish procedures for
submissions by the public of information
with respect to potential failures to imple-
ment the labor obligations of a USMCA
country.
(b) FACILITY-SPECIFIC PETITIONS.—With re-
spect to information submitted in accord-
ance with the procedures established under
subsection (a) accompanying a petition re-
lating to a denial of rights at a covered facil-
ity, as such terms are defined for purposes of
Annex 31–A of the USMCA:
(1) The Interagency Labor Committee shall
review such information within 30 days of
submission and shall determine whether
there is sufficient, credible evidence of a de-
nial of rights (as so defined) enabling the
good-faith invocation of enforcement mecha-
nisms.
(2) If the Committee reaches a negative de-
termination under paragraph (1), the Com-
mittee shall certify such determination to
the appropriate congressional committees
and the petitioner.
(3) If the Committee reaches an affirmative
determination under paragraph (1), the
Trade Representative shall submit a request
for review, in accordance with article 31–A.4
of such Annex, with respect to the covered
facility and shall inform the petitioner and
the appropriate congressional committees of
the submission of such request.
(4) Not later than 60 days after the date of
an affirmative determination under para-
graph (1), the Trade Representative shall—
(A) determine whether to request the es-
tablishment of a rapid response labor panel
in accordance with such Annex; and
(B) if such determination is negative, cer-
tify such determination to the appropriate
congressional committees in conjunction
with the reasons for such determination and
the details of any agreed-upon remediation
plan.
(c) OTHER PETITIONS.—With respect to in-
formation submitted in accordance with the
procedures established under subsection (a)
accompanying a petition relating to any
other violation of the labor obligations of a
USMCA country:
(1) The Interagency Labor Committee shall
review such information not later than 20
days after the date of the submission and
shall determine whether the information
warrants further review.
(2) If the Committee reaches an affirmative
determination under paragraph (1), such fur-
ther review shall focus exclusively on deter-
mining, not later than 60 days after the date
of such submission, whether there is suffi-
cient, credible evidence that the USMCA
country is in violation of its labor obliga-
tions, for purposes of initiating enforcement
action under chapter 23 or chapter 31 of the
USMCA.
(3) If the Committee reaches an affirmative
determination under paragraph (2), the
Trade Representative shall—
(A) not later than 60 days after the date of
the determination of the Committee, initiate
appropriate enforcement action under such
chapter 23 or chapter 31; or
(B) submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a notification including
the reasons for which action was not initi-
ated within such 60-day period.
SEC. 717. HOTLINE.
The Interagency Labor Committee shall
establish a web-based hotline, monitored by
the Department of Labor, to receive con-
fidential information regarding labor issues
among USMCA countries directly from in-
terested parties, including Mexican workers.
SEC. 718. REPORTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and every 180 days thereafter for 10 years ex-
cept as provided in subsection (b), the Inter-
agency Labor Committee shall submit to the
appropriate congressional committees a re-
port that includes—
(1) a description of Committee staffing and
capacity building activities with Mexico;
(2) information regarding the budget re-
sources for Mexico’s labor reform and the
deadlines in the September 2019 policy state-
ments by the Government of Mexico on a na-
tional strategy for implementation of the
labor justice system and in subsequent pol-
icy statements in accordance with Mexico’s
labor reform;
(3) a summary of petitions filed in accord-
ance with section 716 and the use of the rapid
response labor mechanism under Annex 31–A
of the USMCA;
(4) the results of the most recent assess-
ment conducted under section 714; and
(5) if, with respect to any report of the
Independent Mexico Labor Expert Board sub-
mitted under section 734 that includes a de-
termination described in paragraph (2) of
such section, the Interagency Labor Com-
mittee does not concur with such determina-
tion, an explanation of the reasons for not
concurring in such determination and a com-
mitment to provide an oral briefing with re-
spect to such explanation upon request.
(b) CONSULTATION RELATING TO ANNUAL AS-
SESSMENT.—On or after the date that is 5
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Trade Representative and the Sec-
retary of Labor may consult with the appro-
priate congressional committees with re-
spect to the frequency of the reports re-
quired under subsection (a) and, with the ap-
proval of both such committees, may submit
such report on an annual basis for the fol-
lowing 5 years.
(c) FIVE-YEAR ASSESSMENT.—Not later
than the date that is 5 years after the date
of the establishment of the Interagency
Labor Committee pursuant to section 711(a),
the Committee shall jointly submit to the
appropriate congressional committees—
(1) a comprehensive assessment of the im-
plementation of Mexico’s labor reform, in-
cluding with respect to—
(A) whether Mexico has reviewed and le-
gitimized all existing collective bargaining
agreements in Mexico;
(B) whether Mexico has addressed the pre-
existing legal or administrative labor dis-
putes;
(C) whether Mexico has established the
Federal Center for Conciliation and Labor
Registration, and an assessment of that Cen-
ter’s operation;
(D) whether Mexico has established the
federal labor courts, and an assessment of
their operation; and
(E) whether Mexico has established the
state conciliation centers and labor courts in
all states and an assessment of their oper-
ation; and
(2) a strategic plan and recommendations
for actions to address areas of concern relat-
ing to the implementation of Mexico’s labor
reform, for purposes of the joint review con-
ducted pursuant to article 34.7 of the USMCA
on the sixth anniversary of the entry into
force of the USMCA.
SEC. 719. CONSULTATIONS ON APPOINTMENT
AND FUNDING OF RAPID RESPONSE
LABOR PANELISTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Interagency Labor
Committee shall consult with the Labor Ad-
visory Committee established under section
135(c)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
2155(c)(1)) and the Advisory Committee for
Trade Policy and Negotiations established
under section 135(b) of such Act (or successor
advisory committees) and the appropriate
congressional committees with respect to
the selection and appointment of candidates
for the rapid response labor panelists de-
scribed in Annex 31–A of the USMCA.
(b) FUNDING.—The United States, in con-
sultation with Mexico, shall provide ade-
quate funding for rapid response labor panel-
ists to carry out the responsibilities under
the USMCA promptly and fully.
Subtitle B—Mexico Labor Attachés
SEC. 721. ESTABLISHMENT.
The Secretary of Labor shall—
(1) hire and fix the compensation of up to
5 additional full-time officers or employees
of the Department of Labor; and
(2) detail or assign such officers or employ-
ees to the United States Embassy or a
United States Consulate in Mexico to carry
out the duties described in section 722.
SEC. 722. DUTIES.
The duties described in this section are the
following:
(1) Assisting the Interagency Labor Com-
mittee to monitor and enforce the labor obli-
gations of Mexico.
(2) Submitting to the Interagency Labor
Committee on a quarterly basis reports on
the efforts undertaken by Mexico to comply
with its labor obligations.
SEC. 723. STATUS.
Any officer or employee, while detailed or
assigned under this subtitle, shall be consid-
ered, for the purpose of preserving their al-
lowances, privileges, rights, seniority, and
other benefits as such, an officer or employee
of the United States Government and of the
agency of the United States Government
from which detailed or assigned, and shall
continue to receive compensation, allow-
ances, and benefits from program funds ap-
propriated to that agency or made available
to that agency for purposes related to the ac-
tivities of the detail or assignment, in ac-
cordance with authorities related to their
employment status and agency policies.
Subtitle C—Independent Mexico Labor
Expert Board
SEC. 731. ESTABLISHMENT.
There is hereby established a board, to be
known as the ‘‘Independent Mexico Labor
Expert Board’’, to be responsible for moni-
toring and evaluating the implementation of
Mexico’s labor reform and compliance with
its labor obligations. The Board shall also
advise the Interagency Labor Committee
with respect to capacity-building activities
needed to support such implementation and
compliance.
SEC. 732. MEMBERSHIP; TERM.
(a) MEMBERSHIP.—The Board shall be com-
posed of 12 members who shall be appointed
as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12242 December 19, 2019
(1) Four members to be appointed by the
Labor Advisory Committee established
under section 135(c)(1) of the Trade Act of
1974 (19 U.S.C. 2155(c)(1)) (or successor advi-
sory committee).
(2) Two members appointed by the Speaker
of the House of Representatives, in consulta-
tion with the Chair of the Committee on
Ways and Means of the House of Representa-
tives.
(3) Two members appointed by the presi-
dent pro tempore of the Senate from among
individuals recommended by the majority
leader of the Senate and in consultation with
the Chair of the Committee on Finance of
the Senate.
(4) Two members appointed by the minor-
ity leader of the House of Representatives, in
consultation with the Ranking Member of
the Committee on Ways and Means of the
House of Representatives.
(5) Two members appointed by the Presi-
dent pro tempore of the Senate from among
individuals recommended by the minority
leader of the Senate and in consultation with
the Ranking Member of the Committee on
Finance of the Senate.
(b) TERM.—Except as provided in sub-
section (c), members of the Board shall serve
for a term of 6 years.
(c) EXTENSION OF TERM.—If the Board de-
termines, at the end of the 6-year period be-
ginning on the date of the appointment of
the last member appointed in accordance
with subsection (a), that Mexico is not fully
in compliance with its labor obligations, a
majority of the members of the Board may
determine to extend its term for 4 additional
years. A new Board shall be appointed in ac-
cordance with subsection (a) and shall serve
for a single term of 4 years.
SEC. 733. FUNDING.
The United States shall provide necessary
funding to support the work of the Board, in-
cluding with respect to translation services
and personnel support.
SEC. 734. REPORTS.
For the 6-year period beginning on the date
of the enactment of this Act, and for an addi-
tional 4 years if the term of the Board is ex-
tended in accordance with section 732(c), the
Board shall submit to appropriate congres-
sional committees and to the Interagency
Labor Committee an annual report that—
(1) contains an assessment of—
(A) the efforts of Mexico to implement
Mexico’s labor reform; and
(B) the manner and extent to which labor
laws are generally enforced in Mexico; and
(2) may include a determination that Mex-
ico is not in compliance with its labor obli-
gations.
Subtitle D—Forced Labor
SEC. 741. FORCED LABOR ENFORCEMENT TASK
FORCE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall establish a Forced Labor
Enforcement Task Force to monitor United
States enforcement of the prohibition under
section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C.
1307).
(b) MEMBERS; MEETINGS.—
(1) MEMBERS.—The Task Force shall be
chaired by the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity and shall be comprised of representa-
tives from such other agencies with relevant
expertise, including the Office of the United
States Trade Representative and the Depart-
ment of Labor, as the President determines
appropriate.
(2) MEETINGS.—The Task Force shall meet
on a quarterly basis regarding active With-
hold and Release Orders, ongoing investiga-
tions, petitions received, and enforcement
priorities, and other relevant issues with re-
spect to enforcing the prohibition under sec-
tion 307 of the Tariff Act.
SEC. 742. TIMELINE REQUIRED.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the establishment of the Forced Labor
Enforcement Task Force pursuant to section
741(a), the Task Force shall establish
timelines for responding to petitions sub-
mitted to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs
and Border Protection alleging that goods
are being imported by or with child or forced
labor.
(b) CONSULTATION REQUIRED.—In estab-
lishing the timelines during such 90-day pe-
riod, the Task Force shall consult with the
appropriate congressional committees.
(c) REPORT.—The Task Force shall timely
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a report that contains the
timelines established pursuant to subsection
(a) and shall make such report publicly
available.
SEC. 743. REPORTS REQUIRED.
The Forced Labor Enforcement Task Force
shall submit to appropriate congressional
committees a biannual report that includes
the following:
(1) The enforcement activities and prior-
ities of the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity with respect to enforcing the prohibi-
tion under section 307 of the Tariff Act of
1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
(2) The number of instances in which mer-
chandise was denied entry pursuant to such
prohibition during the preceding 180-day pe-
riod.
(3) A description of the merchandise so de-
nied entry.
(4) An enforcement plan regarding goods
included in the most recent ‘‘Findings on the
Worst Forms of Child Labor’’ report sub-
mitted in accordance with section 504 of the
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2464) and ‘‘List of
Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced
Labor’’ submitted in accordance with section
105(b)(2)(C) of the Trafficking Victims Pro-
tection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (22
U.S.C. 7112(b)(2)(C)).
(5) Such other information as the Forced
Labor Enforcement Task Force considers ap-
propriate with respect to monitoring and en-
forcing compliance with section 307 of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
SEC. 744. DUTIES RELATED TO MEXICO.
The Task Force shall—
(1) develop, in consultation with the appro-
priate congressional committees, an enforce-
ment plan regarding goods produced by or
with forced labor in Mexico; and
(2) report to the Interagency Labor Com-
mittee with respect to any concerns relating
to the enforcement of the prohibition under
section 307 of the Tariff Act with respect to
Mexico, including any allegations that may
be filed with respect to forced labor in Mex-
ico.
Subtitle E—Enforcement Under Rapid
Response Labor Mechanism
SEC. 751. TRANSMISSION OF REPORTS.
Each report issued by a rapid response
labor panel constituted in accordance with
Annex 31–A of the USMCA shall be imme-
diately submitted to the appropriate con-
gressional committees, the Labor Advisory
Committee established under section
135(c)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
2155(c)(1)) (or successor advisory committee),
and, as appropriate, the petitioner submit-
ting information pursuant to section 716.
The Trade Representative shall also make
each such report publicly available in a
timely manner.
SEC. 752. SUSPENSION OF LIQUIDATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—If the United States files
a request pursuant to article 31–A.4.2 of
Annex 31–A of the USMCA, the Trade Rep-
resentative may direct the Secretary of the
Treasury to suspend liquidation for unliqui-
dated entries of goods from such covered fa-
cility until such time as the Trade Rep-
resentative notifies the Secretary that a
condition described in subsection (b) has
been met.
(b) RESUMPTION OF LIQUIDATION.—The con-
ditions described in this subsection are the
following:
(1) The rapid response labor panel has de-
termined that there is no denial of rights at
the covered facility within the meaning of
such terms under Annex 31–A of the USMCA.
(2) A course of remediation for denial of
rights has been agreed to and has been com-
pleted in accordance with the agreed-upon
time.
(3) The denial of rights has been otherwise
remedied.
SEC. 753. FINAL REMEDIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—If a rapid response labor
panel constituted in accordance with Annex
31–A of the USMCA determines with respect
to a case that there has been a denial of
rights within the meaning of such Annex,
the Trade Representative may, in consulta-
tion with the appropriate congressional com-
mittees—
(1) direct the Secretary of the Treasury,
until the date of the notification described in
subsection (b) and in accordance with Annex
31–A of the USMCA—
(A) to—
(i) deny entry to goods, produced wholly or
in part, from any covered facility involved in
such case; or
(ii) allow for the release of goods, produced
wholly or in part, from such covered facili-
ties only upon payment of duties and any
penalty; and
(B) to apply any duties or penalties to cus-
toms entries for which liquidation was sus-
pended pursuant to section 752; and
(2) apply other remedies that are appro-
priate and available under Annex 31–A of the
USMCA, until the denial of rights with re-
spect to the case has been remedied.
(b) REMEDIATION NOTIFICATION.—The Trade
Representative shall promptly notify the
Secretary when the denial of rights with re-
spect to a case described in subsection (a)
has been remedied.
TITLE VIII—ENVIRONMENT MONITORING
AND ENFORCEMENT
SEC. 801. DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) ENVIRONMENTAL LAW.—The term ‘‘envi-
ronmental law’’ has the meaning given the
term in article 24.1 of the USMCA.
(2) ENVIRONMENTAL OBLIGATIONS.—The
term ‘‘environmental obligations’’ means ob-
ligations relating to the environment
under—
(A) chapter 1 of the USMCA (relating to
initial provisions and general definitions);
and
(B) chapter 24 of the USMCA (relating to
environment).
Subtitle A—Interagency Environment
Committee for Monitoring and Enforcement
SEC. 811. ESTABLISHMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall establish an Interagency
Environment Committee for Monitoring and
Enforcement (in this title referred to as the
‘‘Interagency Environment Committee’’)—
(1) to coordinate United States efforts to
monitor and enforce environmental obliga-
tions generally; and
(2) with respect to the USMCA countries—
(A) to carry out an assessment of their en-
vironmental laws and policies;
(B) to carry out monitoring actions with
respect to the implementation and mainte-
nance of their environmental obligations;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12243
December 19, 2019
(C) to request enforcement actions with re-
spect to USMCA countries that are not in
compliance with their environmental obliga-
tions.
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The members of the
Interagency Environment Committee shall
be the following:
(1) The Trade Representative, who shall
serve as chairperson.
(2) Representatives from each of the fol-
lowing:
(A) The National Oceanic Atmospheric Ad-
ministration.
(B) The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
(C) The U.S. Forest Service.
(D) The Environmental Protection Agency.
(E) The Animal and Plant Health Inspec-
tion Service.
(F) U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(G) The Department of State.
(H) The Department of Justice.
(I) The Department of the Treasury.
(J) The United States Agency for Inter-
national Development.
(3) Representatives from other Federal
agencies, as the President determines to be
appropriate.
(c) INFORMATION SHARING.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, the
members of the Interagency Environment
Committee may exchange information for
purposes of carrying out this subtitle.
SEC. 812. ASSESSMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Interagency Environ-
ment Committee shall carry out an assess-
ment of the environmental laws and policies
of the USMCA countries—
(1) to determine if such laws and policies
are sufficient to implement their environ-
mental obligations; and
(2) to identify any gaps between such laws
and policies and their environmental obliga-
tions.
(b) MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED.—The assess-
ment required by subsection (a) shall iden-
tify the environmental laws and policies of
the USMCA countries with respect to which
enhanced cooperation, including the provi-
sion of technical assistance and capacity
building assistance, monitoring actions, and
enforcement actions, if appropriate, should
be carried out on an enhanced and con-
tinuing basis.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date on which the Interagency Environ-
ment Committee is established, or the date
on which the USMCA enters into force,
whichever occurs earlier, the Interagency
Environment Committee shall submit a re-
port that contains the assessment required
by subsection (a) to—
(1) the appropriate congressional commit-
tees; and
(2) the Trade and Environment Policy Ad-
visory Committee (or successor advisory
committee) established under section
135(c)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
2155(c)(1)).
(d) UPDATE.—The Interagency Environ-
ment Committee shall—
(1) update the assessment required by sub-
section (a) at the appropriate time prior to
submission of the report required by section
816(a) that is to be submitted in the fifth
year after the USMCA enters into force; and
(2) submit the updated assessment to the
Trade Representative for inclusion in such
fifth annual report.
(e) CONSULTATION.—The Interagency Envi-
ronment Committee shall consult on a reg-
ular basis with the USMCA countries—
(1) in carrying out the assessment required
by subsection (a) and the update to the as-
sessment required by subsection (d); and
(2) in preparing the report required by sub-
section (c).
SEC. 813. MONITORING ACTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Interagency Environ-
ment Committee shall carry out monitoring
actions, which shall include the monitoring
actions described in subsections (b), (c), and
(d), with respect to the implementation and
maintenance of the environmental obliga-
tions of the USMCA countries.
(b) REVIEW OF CEC SECRETARIAT SUBMIS-
SIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Secretariat of
the Commission for Environmental Coopera-
tion prepares a factual record under article
24.28 of the USMCA relating to a submission
filed under article 24.27 of the USMCA with
respect to a USMCA country, the Inter-
agency Environment Committee—
(A) shall review the factual record; and
(B) may, based on findings of the review
under subparagraph (A) that the USMCA
country is not in compliance with its envi-
ronmental obligations, request enforcement
actions under section 814 with respect to the
USMCA country.
(2) WRITTEN JUSTIFICATION.—If the Inter-
agency Environment Committee finds that a
USMCA country is not in compliance with
its environmental obligations under para-
graph (1)(B) and determines not to request
enforcement actions under section 814 with
respect to the USMCA country, the Com-
mittee shall, not later than 30 days after the
date on which it makes the determination,
provide to the appropriate congressional
committees a written explanation and jus-
tification of the determination.
(c) REVIEW OF REPORTS OF UNITED STATES
ENVIRONMENT ATTACHÉS TO MEXICO.—The
Interagency Environment Committee shall—
(1) review each report submitted to the
Committee under section 822(b)(2); and
(2) based on the findings of each such re-
port, assess the efforts of Mexico to comply
with its environmental obligations.
(d) UNITED STATES IMPLEMENTATION OF EN-
VIRONMENT COOPERATION AND CUSTOMS
VERIFICATION AGREEMENT.—
(1) VERIFICATION OF SHIPMENTS.—The Inter-
agency Environment Committee—
(A) may request verification of particular
shipments of Mexico under the Environment
Cooperation and Customs Verification
Agreement between the United States and
Mexico, done at Mexico City on December 10,
2019, in response to—
(i) comments submitted by the public to
request verification of particular shipments
of Mexico under such Agreement; or
(ii) on its own motion; and
(B) upon receipt of comments described in
subparagraph (A)(i)—
(i) shall review the comments not later
than 30 days after the date on which the
comments are submitted to the Trade Rep-
resentative; and
(ii) may request the Trade Representative
to, within a reasonable period of time, re-
quest Mexico to provide relevant informa-
tion for purposes of verification of particular
shipments of Mexico described in subpara-
graph (A).
(2) REVIEW OF RELEVANT INFORMATION AND
REQUEST FOR ADDITIONAL STEPS.—The Inter-
agency Environment Committee—
(A) shall review relevant information pro-
vided by Mexico as described in paragraph
(1)(B)(ii) to determine if the Trade Rep-
resentative should request additional steps
to verify information provided or related to
a particular shipment of Mexico; and
(B) may request the Trade Representative
to, within a reasonable period of time, re-
quest Mexico to take such additional steps
with respect to the particular shipment.
(3) CONSULTATION.—The Trade Representa-
tive, on behalf of the Interagency Environ-
ment Committee, shall, on a quarterly basis,
consult with the appropriate congressional
committees and the Trade and Environment
Policy Advisory Committee (or successor ad-
visory committee) established under section
135(c)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
2155(c)(1)) regarding the public comments
and relevant information described in para-
graph (1) and the actions taken under para-
graph (2).
(e) APPLICATION.—Subsections (c) and (d)
shall apply with respect to Mexico for such
time as the USMCA is in force with respect
to, and the United States applies the USMCA
to, Mexico.
SEC. 814. ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
The Interagency Environment Com-
mittee—
(1) may request the Trade Representative
to, within a reasonable period of time, re-
quest consultations under—
(A) article 24.29 of the USMCA (relating to
environment consultations) with respect to
the USMCA country; or
(B) articles 31.4 and 31.6 of the USMCA (re-
lating to dispute settlement consultations)
with respect to the USMCA country; or
(2) may request the heads of other Federal
agencies described in section 815 to initiate
monitoring or enforcement actions with re-
spect to the USMCA country under the pro-
visions of law described in section 815.
SEC. 815. OTHER MONITORING AND ENFORCE-
MENT ACTIONS.
(a) MARINE MAMMAL PROTECTION ACT.—The
Secretary of Commerce has authority to
take appropriate monitoring or enforcement
actions under the Marine Mammal Protec-
tion Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.).
(b) MAGNUSON-STEVENS FISHERY CONSERVA-
TION AND MANAGEMENT ACT.—The Secretary
of Commerce has authority to take appro-
priate monitoring or enforcement actions
under the following provisions of law:
(1) The Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Con-
servation and Management Act (16 U.S.C.
1801 et seq.).
(2) The Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Con-
servation and Management Reauthorization
Act of 2006 (16 U.S.C. 1891 et seq.).
(3) The High Seas Driftnet Fishing Morato-
rium Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 1826d et seq.).
(4) The Shark Conservation Act of 2010 (16
U.S.C. 1826k note; 1857 note).
(5) The Shark Finning Prohibition Act (16
U.S.C. 1822 note).
(c) FISHERMEN’S PROTECTIVE ACT OF 1967.—
The Secretary of Commerce and Secretary of
the Interior have authority to take appro-
priate monitoring or enforcement actions
under section 8 of the Fishermen’s Protec-
tive Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C. 1978).
(d) AGREEMENT ON PORT STATE MEASURES
TO PREVENT, DETER AND ELIMINATE ILLEGAL,
UNREPORTED AND UNREGULATED FISHING.—
The Secretary of Commerce has authority to
take appropriate monitoring or enforcement
actions under the Port State Measures
Agreement Act of 2015 (16 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.).
(e) ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT.—The Sec-
retary of Agriculture, the Secretary of the
Interior, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, the Secretary of Commerce, and the
Secretary of the Treasury have authority to
take appropriate monitoring or enforcement
actions under the Endangered Species Act of
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
(f) LACEY ACT.—The Secretary of Agri-
culture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Sec-
retary of the Interior, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, and the Secretary of the
Treasury have authority to take appropriate
monitoring or enforcement actions under the
Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3371
et seq.).
(g) MIGRATORY BIRD TREATY ACT.—The
Secretary of the Interior has authority to
take appropriate monitoring or enforcement
actions under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act
of 1918 (16 U.S.C. 703 et seq.).
(h) ELIMINATE, NEUTRALIZE, AND DISRUPT
WILDLIFE TRAFFICKING ACT.—The Secretary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12244 December 19, 2019
of State, the Secretary of the Interior, the
Attorney General, and Administrator of the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment have authority to take appro-
priate monitoring or enforcement actions
under the Eliminate, Neutralize, and Disrupt
Wildlife Trafficking Act of 2016 (16 U.S.C.
7601 et seq.).
(i) WILD BIRD CONSERVATION ACT.—The
Secretary of the Interior has authority to
take appropriate monitoring or enforcement
actions under the Wild Bird Conservation
Act of 1992 (16 U.S.C. 4901 et seq.).
(j) CUSTOMS SEIZURE AND OTHER AUTHORI-
TIES.—The Secretary of Homeland Security
has authority to take appropriate moni-
toring or enforcement actions under section
499 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1499) or
section 596 of such Act (19 U.S.C. 1595a).
(k) OTHER RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF LAW.—
The Interagency Environment Committee
may request the heads of other Federal agen-
cies to take appropriate monitoring or en-
forcement actions under other relevant pro-
visions of law.
(l) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this
section may be construed to supersede or
otherwise limit in any manner the functions
or authority of the head of any Federal agen-
cy described in this section under any other
provision of law.
SEC. 816. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Trade Representa-
tive, in consultation with the head of any
Federal agency described in this subtitle,
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report on the implemen-
tation of this subtitle, including—
(1) a description of efforts of the USMCA
countries to implement their environmental
obligations; and
(2) a description of additional efforts to be
taken with respect to USMCA countries that
are failing to implement their environ-
mental obligations.
(b) TIMING OF REPORT.—The report required
by subsection (a) shall be submitted—
(1) not later than one year after the date
on which the USMCA enters into force;
(2) annually for each of the next four years;
and
(3) biennially thereafter.
(c) ADDITIONAL MATTERS TO BE INCLUDED IN
THE FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT.—The report re-
quired by subsection (a) that is submitted in
the fifth year after the USMCA enters into
force shall also include the following:
(1) The updated assessment required by
section 812(d).
(2) A comprehensive determination regard-
ing USMCA countries’ implementation of
their environmental obligations.
(3) An explanation of how compliance with
environmental obligations will be taken into
consideration during the ‘‘joint review’’ con-
ducted pursuant to article 34.7.2 of the
USMCA on the sixth anniversary of the
entry into force of the USMCA.
SEC. 817. REGULATIONS.
The head of any Federal agency described
in this subtitle, in consultation with the
Interagency Environment Committee, may
prescribe such regulations as are necessary
to carry out the authorities of the Federal
agency as provided for under this subtitle.
Subtitle B—Other Matters
SEC. 821. BORDER WATER INFRASTRUCTURE IM-
PROVEMENT AUTHORITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency shall, in
coordination with eligible public entities,
carry out the planning, design, construction,
and operation and maintenance of high pri-
ority treatment works in the covered area to
treat wastewater (including stormwater),
nonpoint sources of pollution, and related
matters resulting from international trans-
boundary water flows originating in Mexico.
(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter, the Administrator
shall submit to Congress a report on activi-
ties carried out pursuant to this section.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED AREA.—The term ‘‘covered
area’’ means the portion of the Tijuana
River watershed that is in the United States.
(2) ELIGIBLE PUBLIC ENTITIES.—The term
‘‘eligible public entities’’ means—
(A) the United States Section of the Inter-
national Boundary and Water Commission;
(B) the Corps of Engineers;
(C) the North American Development
Bank;
(D) the Department of State;
(E) any other appropriate Federal agency;
(F) the State of California; and
(G) any of the following entities with juris-
diction over any part of the covered area:
(i) A local government.
(ii) An Indian Tribe.
(iii) A regional water board.
(iv) A public wastewater utility.
(3) TREATMENT WORKS.—The term ‘‘treat-
ment works’’ has the meaning given that
term in section 212 of the Federal Water Pol-
lution Control Act.
SEC. 822. DETAIL OF PERSONNEL TO OFFICE OF
THE UNITED STATES TRADE REP-
RESENTATIVE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Upon the request of the
Trade Representative, the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency, the
Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice, and the Administrator of the National
Oceanic Atmospheric Administration may
detail, on a reimbursable basis, one em-
ployee of each such respective agency to the
Office of the United States Trade Represent-
ative to be assigned to the United States
Embassy in Mexico to carry out the duties
described in subsection (b).
(b) DUTIES.—The duties described in this
subsection are the following:
(1) Assist the Interagency Environment
Committee to carry out monitoring and en-
forcement actions with respect to the envi-
ronmental obligations of Mexico.
(2) Prepare and submit to the Interagency
Environment Committee on a quarterly
basis a report on efforts of Mexico to comply
with its environmental obligations.
Subtitle C—North American Development
Bank
SEC. 831. GENERAL CAPITAL INCREASE.
Part 2 of subtitle D of title V of Public
Law 103–182 (22 U.S.C. 290m et seq.) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 547. FIRST CAPITAL INCREASE.
‘‘(a) SUBSCRIPTION AUTHORIZED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury is authorized to subscribe on behalf
of the United States to, and make payment
for, 150,000 additional shares of the capital
stock of the Bank.
‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—Any subscription by the
United States to the capital stock of the
Bank shall be effective only to such extent
and in such amounts as are provided in ad-
vance in appropriations Acts.
‘‘(b) LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORIZATION OF AP-
PROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to pay for the
increase in the United States subscription to
the Bank under subsection (a), there are au-
thorized to be appropriated, without fiscal
year limitation, $1,500,000,000 for payment by
the Secretary of the Treasury.
‘‘(2) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Of the amount
authorized to be appropriated under para-
graph (1)—
‘‘(A) $225,000,000 shall be for paid in shares
of the Bank; and
‘‘(B) $1,275,000,000 shall be for callable
shares of the Bank.’’.
SEC. 832. POLICY GOALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—To the extent consistent
with the mission and scope of the North
American Development Bank on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act
and pursuant to section 2 of article II of the
Charter, the Secretary of the Treasury
should direct the representatives of the
United States to the Board of Directors of
the Bank to use the voice and vote of the
United States to give preference to the fi-
nancing of projects related to environmental
infrastructure relating to water pollution,
wastewater treatment, water conservation,
municipal solid waste, stormwater drainage,
non-point pollution, and related matters.
(b) CHARTER DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘Charter’’ means the Agreement Con-
cerning the Establishment of a Border Envi-
ronment Cooperation Commission and a
North American Development Bank, signed
at Washington and Mexico November 16 and
18, 1993, and entered into force January 1,
1994 (TIAS 12516), between the United States
and Mexico.
SEC. 833. EFFICIENCIES AND STREAMLINING.
The Secretary of the Treasury should di-
rect the representatives of the United States
to the Board of Directors of the North Amer-
ican Development Bank to use the voice and
vote of the United States to seek to require
the Bank to develop and implement effi-
ciency improvements to streamline and ac-
celerate the project certification and financ-
ing process, including through initiatives
such as single certifications for revolving fa-
cilities, programmatic certification of simi-
lar groups of small projects, expansion of in-
ternal authority to approve qualified
projects below certain monetary thresholds,
and expedited certification for public sector
projects subject to lender bidding processes.
SEC. 834. PERFORMANCE MEASURES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury should direct the representatives of
the United States to the Board of Directors
of the North American Development Bank to
use the voice and vote of the United States
to seek to require the Bank to develop per-
formance measures that—
(1) demonstrate how projects and financing
approved by the Bank are meeting the
Bank’s mission and providing added value to
the region near the international land border
between the United States and Mexico; and
(2) are reviewed and updated not less fre-
quently than annually.
(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The Secretary of
the Treasury shall submit to Congress, with
the submission to Congress of the budget of
the President for a fiscal year under section
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, a re-
port on progress in imposing the perform-
ance measures described in subsection (a) of
this section.
TITLE IX—USMCA SUPPLEMENTAL
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
The following sums are hereby appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, for fiscal year
2020 and for other purposes, namely:
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION
SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, for enforcement of the Lacey
Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3371 et
seq.) during fiscal years 2020 through 2023 re-
lated to trade activities between the United
States and Mexico, $4,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12245
December 19, 2019
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’, $16,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023: Pro-
vided, That $8,000,000 shall be available to en-
gage in cooperation with the Government of
Mexico to combat illegal, unreported, and
unregulated fishing and enhance the imple-
mentation of the Seafood Import Monitoring
Program pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 1826 and 1829,
during fiscal years 2020 through 2023: Pro-
vided further, That $8,000,000 shall be avail-
able to carry out section 3 of the Marine De-
bris Act (33 U.S.C. 1952) during fiscal years
2020 through 2023 in the North American re-
gion: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE
REPRESENTATIVE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, $50,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2023: Provided, That
$30,000,000 shall be available solely to provide
for additional capacity of the Office during
fiscal years 2020 through 2023 to monitor
compliance with labor obligations (as such
term is defined in section 701 of this Act), in-
cluding the necessary expenses of additional
full-time employees to participate in the
Interagency Labor Committee for Moni-
toring and Enforcement established pursuant
to section 711 of this Act: Provided further,
That $20,000,000 shall be available to reim-
burse the necessary expenses of personnel
participating in the Interagency Environ-
ment Committee for Monitoring and En-
forcement established pursuant to section
811 of this Act during fiscal years 2020
through 2023 to monitor compliance with en-
vironmental obligations (as such term is de-
fined in section 801 of this Act), including up
to 1 additional full-time employee detailed
to the United States Embassy in Mexico
from each of the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, and the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration: Provided fur-
ther, That, if the United States Trade Rep-
resentative determines that the additional
amount appropriated under this heading in
this Act exceeds the amount sufficient to
provide for the reimbursement of personnel
specified in the previous proviso, such excess
amounts may be used to reimburse the nec-
essary expenses of additional personnel par-
ticipating in the Interagency Environment
Committee for Monitoring and Enforcement
during fiscal years 2020 through 2023 to mon-
itor compliance with environmental obliga-
tions (as such term is defined in section 801
of this Act): Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
TRADE ENFORCEMENT TRUST FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Trade
Enforcement Trust Fund’’, $40,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023, to
carry out the enforcement of environmental
obligations under the USMCA, including for
state-to-state dispute settlement actions,
during fiscal years 2020 through 2023: Pro-
vided, That, amounts appropriated in this
paragraph shall not count toward the limita-
tion specified in section 611(b)(2) of the Trade
Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of
2015 (19 U.S.C. 4405): Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Resource
Management’’, to enforce the Lacey Act
Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3371 et seq.)
and sections 42 and 43 of title 18, United
States Code, with respect to goods imported
or exported between the United States and
Mexico, during fiscal years 2020 through 2023,
$4,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AND MANAGEMENT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Environ-
mental Programs and Management’’ for nec-
essary expenses for carrying out the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency’s efforts
through the Commission for Environmental
Cooperation during fiscal years 2020 through
2023, to reduce pollution, strengthen environ-
mental governance, conserve biological di-
versity, and sustainably manage natural re-
sources, $4,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’ for architectural,
engineering, planning, design, construction
and related activities in connection with the
construction of high priority wastewater fa-
cilities in the area of the United States-Mex-
ico Border, after consultation with the ap-
propriate border commission, $300,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
DEPARTMENTAL MANAGEMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, $210,000,000, for the Bureau of
International Labor Affairs to administer or
operate international labor activities, bilat-
eral and multilateral technical assistance,
and microfinance programs, by or through
contracts, grants, subgrants and other ar-
rangements; of which $180,000,000, to remain
available until December 31, 2023, shall be
used to support reforms of the labor justice
system in Mexico, including grants to sup-
port worker-focused capacity building, ef-
forts to reduce workplace discrimination in
Mexico, efforts to reduce child labor and
forced labor in Mexico, efforts to reduce
human trafficking, efforts to reduce child ex-
ploitation, and other efforts related to im-
plementation of the USMCA; and of which
$30,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2027, shall be available to provide
for additional capacity of the Bureau of
International Labor Affairs during fiscal
years 2020 through 2027 to monitor compli-
ance with labor obligations (as such term is
defined in section 701 of this Act), including
the necessary expenses of additional full-
time employees of the Bureau to participate
in the Interagency Labor Committee for
Monitoring and Enforcement established
pursuant to section 711 of this Act: Provided,
That the Secretary of Labor may detail or
assign up to 5 additional full-time employees
of the Bureau to the United States Embassy
or consulates in Mexico to (1) assist in moni-
toring and enforcement actions with respect
to the labor obligations of Mexico, and (2)
prepare a report, to be submitted on a quar-
terly basis to the Interagency Labor Com-
mittee for Monitoring and Enforcement
through September 30, 2027, on the efforts of
Mexico to comply with labor obligations (as
such term is defined in section 701 of this
Act): Provided further, That such employees,
while detailed or assigned, shall continue to
receive compensation, allowances, and bene-
fits from funds made available to the Bureau
for purposes related to the activities of the
detail or assignment, in accordance with au-
thorities related to their employment status
and agency policies: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
CONTRIBUTION TO THE NORTH AMERICAN
DEVELOPMENT BANK
For payment to the North American Devel-
opment Bank by the Secretary of the Treas-
ury for the United States share of the paid-
in portion of the increase in capital stock,
$215,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That the authorities and
conditions applicable to accounts in title V
of the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs Appropria-
tions Act, 2019 (division F of Public Law 116–
6) shall apply to the amounts provided under
this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 901. Each amount appropriated or
made available by this title is in addition to
any amounts otherwise appropriated for any
of the fiscal years involved.
SEC. 902. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this title shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 903. Unless otherwise provided for by
this title, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this title to appropriations ac-
counts shall be available under the authori-
ties and conditions applicable to such appro-
priations accounts for fiscal year 2020.
SEC. 904. Each amount designated in this
title by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
BUDGETARY EFFECTS
SEC. 905. (a) STATUTORY PAYGO SCORE-
CARDS.—The budgetary effects of this title
shall not be entered on either PAYGO score-
card maintained pursuant to section 4(d) of
the Statutory Pay As-You-Go Act of 2010.
(b) SENATE PAYGO SCORECARDS.—The
budgetary effects of this title shall not be
entered on any PAYGO scorecard maintained
for purposes of section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71
(115th Congress).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12246 December 19, 2019
(c) CLASSIFICATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.—Notwithstanding Rule 3 of the Budg-
et Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the
joint explanatory statement of the com-
mittee of conference accompanying Con-
ference Report 105–217 and section 250(c)(7)
and (c)(8) of the Balanced Budget and Emer-
gency Deficit Control Act of 1985, the budg-
etary effects of this title shall be estimated
for purposes of section 251 of such Act.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘USMCA
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill
shall be debatable for 2 hours equally
divided and controlled by the majority
leader and the minority leader or their
respective designees.
The gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
HOYER) and the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. MCCARTHY) each will con-
trol 1 hour.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on H.R. 5430.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself 1 minute.
This vote today, Madam Speaker, is a
reminder that, even while the House
was working on a serious matter re-
garding the President’s accountability
for abuses of office, we were still work-
ing hard to deliver on our promises to
the American people to focus on eco-
nomic opportunity, and in this in-
stance we were working together.
This USMCA agreement before us is a
vast improvement over the first
version shown to us by President
Trump and his team. We worked to-
gether, and it now includes critically
important changes offered by Demo-
cratic members in order to ensure that
its enforcement mechanisms are
stronger, that it protects American
workers, and that it will help lower
prescription drug costs and improve ac-
cess to medications.
This agreement, Madam Speaker,
will also remove some of the uncer-
tainty created by the tariff policies
that have been pursued by the Presi-
dent.
I am glad that our House Democratic
working group was able to secure new
provisions to ensure that America’s
trading partners uphold the rights of
workers to unionize and bargain collec-
tively. And I am glad that this agree-
ment includes strong, rapid-response
enforcement mechanisms that will
allow us to block imports produced in
facilities where these commitments are
violated.
I, and this Congress, will be closely
monitoring the enforcement of this
new agreement to make certain that
the administration is doing its job and
workers’ rights are protected.
I thank Speaker PELOSI, Chairman
NEAL of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee, and Ambassador Lighthizer,
who represented the administration in
his straightforward, honest way. Their
hard work and negotiations with the
White House to improve on the admin-
istration’s initial draft were successful.
I thank, as well, the members of the
Democratic working group who spent
months working alongside the Speaker
and chairman to fight for the provi-
sions necessary to secure House sup-
port.
This agreement, Madam Speaker, is
truly the product of bipartisanship
with many victories for Democrats, of
which all Americans can be proud, and
obviously, victories for Republicans, as
well. I hope we can approve it today
with a strong, bipartisan vote of sup-
port.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself 1 minute.
Madam Speaker, in sharp contrast to
yesterday, today is the first time this
Chamber can finally rally behind an
overwhelming, bipartisan legislative
win since the beginning of this Con-
gress.
More than a year ago, President
Trump came together with the leaders
of Mexico and Canada to sign a trans-
formative trade deal that would re-
vamp how we trade goods with our top
two leading traders. Despite delay after
delay from our Democratic colleagues,
Republicans never relented.
We understood months ago that the
United States-Mexico-Canada agree-
ment would deliver a much-deserved
win for the American worker. Today is
for them. It is for our hardworking
farmers who have early mornings and
long days maintaining their harvest
and livestock. It is for our consumers
who will be paying less money at the
checkout for everyday goods. It is for
generations of Americans that will be
able to enjoy a more prosperous and fi-
nancially secure future for decades to
come.
And because of that Republicans
fought. We spoke to our constituents.
We took to the floor to deliver speech-
es. I just did a report to see the number
of times in the last year USMCA was
mentioned on this floor. Ninety-one
percent of all the times it was men-
tioned were from this side of the aisle
and 9 percent on the other. I want to
congratulate our members for never
giving up.
We spoke about the wins the USMCA
would deliver any chance we got, and
we stayed in close contact with the ad-
ministration to ensure that it would be
the right deal worthy of the American
workers’ legacy.
Republicans also understood that the
ratification of USMCA would only
make the United States stronger as we
continue to negotiate a trade with
China.
I am glad today is here, but it is a
year late. Mexico is our number one
trader. Canada is our number two.
China is number three. For the last
year we have been trying to negotiate
an agreement with China. Our hand
would only have been stronger if today
happened months ago. I am glad today
is here, but the delay has hurt us.
As we move forward, another goal
that President Trump continues to
make progress on is our negotiations
with China. Today will make him
stronger and, hopefully, help his hand
from the last year.
Our economy is booming, exceeding
expectations on a regular basis.
Thanks to this President and Repub-
licans in Congress pushing pro-growth
policies, we are living through the best
economy in a generation.
Regardless, if you are a Republican
or a Democrat, the strength of this
economy is undeniable, and that is a
fact worth celebrating.
b 1045
The ratification of the USMCA will
guarantee that the trajectory con-
tinues to move in the same positive di-
rection.
After 25 years, a revised trade agree-
ment was well past due.
I know other Presidents had prom-
ised they would be able to do this. It is
no small feat and not easy by any
means, but it is another promise kept
by this President, and we want to
thank him for his work.
When President Trump ran for office,
passing the USMCA was a campaign
promise. Critics said it couldn’t be
done, yet he made it happen. Another
promise made, another promise kept.
I also want to commend the incred-
ible support he had from Congressional
Republicans, especially our Ranking
Member KEVIN BRADY and the entire
team he has on the Ways and Means
Committee. They never faltered, they
never backed down, and they continued
to work.
Madam Speaker, they never let the
Democrat pushback hold them back
from delivering a major win for the
American worker.
Today is a day worth celebrating. It
is a day this House, after nearly a year,
finally checked their partisanship at
the door to better the lives of the
American people.
Madam Speaker, I yield the balance
of my time to the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. BRADY).
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I am delighted to
stand in support of H.R. 5430, the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment Implementation Act.
The legislation we are considering
today is the result of almost 14 months
of negotiations between House Demo-
crats and Ambassador Lighthizer, and I
am very proud of the outcome that we
have reached.
As a result of these months of work,
the USMCA is a transformative agree-
ment that creates a new high-water
mark for U.S. trade deals going for-
ward.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12247
December 19, 2019
When we assumed the majority this
year, we were asked to consider a re-
negotiated NAFTA that had structural
flaws in a key number of areas: en-
forcement, labor rights, environment,
and access to medicines.
Let me start with enforcement,
which was the crux of this agreement.
As I have noted many times over the
past year, I did not vote for the origi-
nal NAFTA. The chief reason was the
lack of enforceability mechanisms.
During these past 25 years, we have
seen the shortcomings of the original
agreement, much of which comes down
to a lack of enforcement, in my view.
House Democrats, working with Am-
bassador Lighthizer, fixed many of
those issues. The improvements to the
USMCA that we negotiated finally
make the agreement enforceable by
preventing a country from being able
to block the formation of a dispute set-
tlement panel.
On labor, our trade agreements, in
many cases, have failed American
workers. NAFTA has been symbolic of
our broken promises to these workers.
Over 25 years of the NAFTA, there
have been 39 petitions filed docu-
menting the exploitation of workers
and zero enforcement actions taken to
remedy those violations.
In close partnership with labor
unions and with the robust support of
Ways and Means Democrats, support
from Republicans, we negotiated im-
provements to the rules and to our
monitoring regime, and we established
a new enforcement mechanism.
On the rules, we strengthened certain
provisions and addressed obstacles to
enforcement in many others. On moni-
toring, for the first time we have cre-
ated a proactive monitoring regime for
labor obligations in a trade agreement.
The implementing bill establishes an
Interagency Labor Committee that will
actively monitor Mexico’s compliance,
and report back to Congress.
On enforcement, we negotiated a his-
toric mechanism never included in a
trade agreement before. As a result of
Democratic efforts, we will now have a
facility-specific, rapid-response mecha-
nism to address violations of key labor
obligations.
We have made great improvements to
environmental provisions. The USMCA
will now include the highest environ-
mental standards of any trade agree-
ment in history and will include a new
customs verification agreement to en-
hance enforcement.
The implementing bill, and I hope
our colleagues in this Chamber will
hear this, also secures more than $600
million in funding for environmental
problems in the NAFTA region and re-
authorizes the North American Devel-
opment Bank.
Through the dedication of the work-
ing group members, the Trade Sub-
committee members, we also secured
important changes to USMCA that pre-
serve Congress’ ability to change U.S.
law to address the crisis we face with
respect to high prescription drug
prices.
These changes set a new standard for
U.S. trade agreements, and dem-
onstrate that trade agreements can
achieve broad, bipartisan support if
they empower workers, protect pa-
tients, provide access to affordable
healthcare, and improve our shared en-
vironment.
I am proud of what we did here. After
14 months of negotiating on every con-
ceivable front, we have improved the
old NAFTA.
Madam Speaker, I want to remind
our colleagues today, if they decide
that they are not going to vote for this
piece of legislation in front of us, that
is up to them. But one thing they can-
not say is, this is not much better than
what we have had in the past.
So the options here are clear: you
can vote for what we have negotiated
or you can embrace the status quo. And
if this fails today, that is precisely
what you are doing: embracing the sta-
tus quo.
This agreement, based upon the
painstaking efforts of members of the
committee and Ambassador Lighthizer,
was done with full transparency. No
surprises are in this legislation.
I hope that today we can say at the
end of the time limits that this was a
successful negotiation of the largest
trade agreement in American history,
a hemispheric agreement that I think
we can stand in support of with great
pride today.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, yesterday, with im-
peachment, was a low mark in par-
tisanship.
Today, we have the opportunity to
set a high mark in consensus and bi-
partisanship.
Today is a momentous day. We will
finally consider the implementing bill
that brings the trade relationship be-
tween the U.S., Canada, and Mexico
into the 21st century.
This trade agreement is sorely need-
ed. It has been over 25 years since we
first established this trade relationship
through NAFTA. So much has changed
since then.
For one thing, when we passed
NAFTA, the phone booths by the Ways
and Means hearing room actually had
pay phones in them.
A new 21st century trade agreement
will be a force multiplier for America’s
already strong economy.
Today marks the day 2 years ago
that the House approved the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act for the first time that has
transformed America’s economy.
Today, President Trump and Ambas-
sador Lighthizer have fought hard and
delivered on their promise for a pro-
growth and moderate trade pact. And
because of their outstanding leadership
and working closely with our congres-
sional leaders on both sides of the
aisle, we now have a trade agreement
that will deliver historic wins for the
economy, and that is because this
trade agreement is all about growth.
USMCA will set the stage for billions
more in economic activity. It creates,
for the first time, rules for competing
in the digital economy, to the advan-
tage of America’s manufacturers and
farmers across so many sectors. It
pries open Canada’s market for U.S.
farmers and ranchers to sell American
dairy, wheat, chickens, eggs, and tur-
key. It improves the competitive posi-
tion of our manufacturers, our service
companies, and our small businesses. It
ends the race to the bottom created by
what had been Mexico’s poor labor
laws.
The agreement, best of all, is en-
forceable, allowing us to challenge vio-
lations and to stop countries from
blocking these challenges, holding
Mexico and Canada accountable for
these new rules.
More jobs. More American cus-
tomers.
America’s innovators will get the
tools they need to succeed here as we
compete with countries like China.
Independent experts predict this new
agreement will spur over $68 billion in
new economic activity.
We are always looking to create more
U.S. jobs, and this will create more
than 176,000 jobs here in America, in-
cluding 76,000 in our auto sector. That
is good news for everyone.
Best of all for the American people,
USMCA is a truly bipartisan agree-
ment.
To Chairman NEAL’s credit and his
remarkable hard work, House Demo-
crats, including Chairman BLUMENAUER
and my Texas colleague, HENRY
CUELLAR and many others, worked in
good faith with Ranking Member
BUCHANAN and Ambassador Lighthizer
to get on a path to ‘‘yes.’’
We are so glad to see so many Repub-
lican priorities were retained.
In the agreement before us today, we
have labor and environmental rules
that are realistic, they are measurable,
they are enforceable.
What is not in this agreement are
provisions for which there is no con-
sensus, like the Paris climate accord.
It is not a perfect agreement. No
trade agreements are. We will continue
to work to improve the areas that we
think can be improved in future agree-
ments, but in any event, American
workers have a major victory in the
USMCA, and I am proud to support it.
It is a shame that the Speaker held it
up for so long. It has been over a year
since President Trump and our North
American neighbors signed the new
U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement. It has
been over half a year since Mexico rati-
fied the initial agreement, and they
have undertaken transformational
labor reform.
Due to Democrats’ misguided obses-
sion with impeachment, they neglected
moving forward on this pro-worker and
pro-growth trade agreement for far too
long.
Nonetheless, today I am so encour-
aged that we are here, finally moving
forward on this new, strengthened
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.022 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12248 December 19, 2019
North American Trade Agreement, be-
cause in the end, USMCA will not be a
Republican win or a Democratic win,
but a win for the American people, and
a stronger, more prosperous alliance
with our North American trading part-
ners.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. BLUMENAUER), the chairman of the
Trade Subcommittee, who also made
an invaluable effort in terms of the
working group that assembled the doc-
ument that we will vote on this after-
noon.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker,
I thank Chairman NEAL for his extraor-
dinary efforts.
Twenty-five years ago, NAFTA
passed over strong opposition, with se-
rious flaws.
At the beginning of this Congress, we
were given a bill by the administration
that didn’t address those problems. It
didn’t have the votes to pass and it
didn’t deserve to pass.
I am proud of the work with our
chairman; with our working group; the
Speaker, who periodically invested
huge amounts of time to keep it on
track; and, of course, Ambassador
Lighthizer, who was a great partner
working with us.
We are voting today on an agreement
that has fundamentally been rewritten
and strengthened.
A personal priority for me was strip-
ping unnecessary and harmful special
provisions for Big Pharma. We have
strengthened labor protections and en-
forcement. These are game changers.
The help of AFL–CIO President Rich-
ard Trumka and, again, the Speaker
were invaluable.
We have had environmental improve-
ments. My colleague from Oregon, SU-
ZANNE BONAMICI, deserves great praise
for being tenacious on that. We will at-
tack the raw sewage many of us saw
flowing into the Pacific in Tijuana.
We finally have come to an agree-
ment that can and should be passed.
I appreciate the hard work of all our
colleagues, and hope that this is a
foundation that we can move forward
on to deal with challenges we have
with a global economy with the same
spirit of cooperation and innovation.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. BUCHANAN), the leading Repub-
lican on the Trade Subcommittee, who
deserves great credit for this trade
agreement.
Mr. BUCHANAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in support of the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement. I
want to say up front, I am so excited
about this bipartisan effort, that is
going to make a big difference for
American workers.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank our
leaders on our committee: Leader
BRADY, Chairman NEAL, Chairman
BLUMENAUER. I want to thank all of
them, because this has been a team ef-
fort. It is exciting to see that once in a
while.
What the House passes today will
bring us one step closer to finally mod-
ernizing and balancing the 25-year-old
North American Free Trade Agree-
ment, which supports nearly $1.3 tril-
lion in economic activity and more
than 12 million American jobs.
Passing USMCA will update the
United States’ critical trading rela-
tionships with our North American
neighbors into the 21st century, a high-
standard deal that benefits American
workers, businesses, and the economy.
b 1100
In fact, according to the independent
International Trade Commission,
USMCA will boost our economy by $68
billion and create an additional 175,000
new jobs.
International trade is critical to my
home State of Florida, where we export
more than $12 billion worth of goods
and services to Canada and Mexico,
supporting more than 700,000 jobs.
Leveling the playing field for Florida
and the country, as well as increasing
access to our foreign markets, is crit-
ical to growing the U.S. economy and
creating good-paying jobs.
Florida has 15 deepwater seaports, in-
cluding Port Manatee in my district.
Florida exports tens of billions of dol-
lars in goods and services annually and
adds more than $100 billion in economic
value to our State.
I also congratulate President Trump
because this is something for the last 3
or 4 years he has been very passionate
about, and Ambassador Lighthizer be-
cause, without him and his effort, I am
not sure we would be here today.
Madam Speaker, I urge support for
this landmark trade agreement.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. LEWIS), whose legendary
work on behalf of America is well
known to all.
Mr. LEWIS. Madam Speaker, I thank
my friend, Chairman NEAL, for all of
his hard and great work. He never gave
up; he never gave in. He kept the faith,
and he kept his eyes on the prize.
I thank all of my colleagues, both
Democrats and Republicans, from the
Ways and Means Committee for finding
a way to get us to the point where we
are today.
Twenty-six years ago, I opposed
NAFTA with every bone in my body. I
never thought the day would come
when we would have the opportunity to
right some of the wrongs in that agree-
ment.
NAFTA failed our workers. It failed
our Mexican brothers and sisters. It
failed Mother Earth.
NAFTA destroyed the hopes and
dreams of a generation. It wiped out
communities. It started a race to the
bottom.
With this vote, we have a chance to
reset the clock, to chart a new path,
and to create a new trade model.
We can always do more, but today,
we build a new foundation for trade
policy, a floor that reflects our values
as a people and as a nation.
I thank the working group and all of
our trade staff for working day in and
day out. They were determined to do
right.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to yield 2 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Wyoming (Ms. CHENEY), a
free-market conservative who is an
outstanding chairman of the Repub-
lican Conference.
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, I
thank the Republican leader of the
Ways and Means Committee, my friend
Mr. BRADY, for all of his hard work,
and Chairman NEAL, as well, for his
work on this.
Sadly, Madam Speaker, last night, on
the floor of this House, the Democrats
impeached the President of the United
States without any direct evidence.
After that, we learned that, despite the
fact that they claimed, for months,
that impeachment was an urgent mat-
ter, Speaker PELOSI is refusing to send
the Articles of Impeachment to the
Senate. I suppose we shouldn’t be sur-
prised, as Leader MCCONNELL, moments
ago, said that these articles are a re-
flection of very shoddy work and a
rigged and rushed process.
The American voters will not forget
the travesty that the House Democrats
have overseen. Had they not been ob-
sessed with impeaching President
Trump, we could have approved this
very deal a year ago. The bipartisan
nature of this deal that we are here dis-
cussing today cannot cover up what
happened on this floor last night.
Trade with Mexico and Canada is
vital to our economy in my home State
of Wyoming. Exports from Wyoming to
our North American partners totaled
$207 million in 2018. This USMCA will
open countless new opportunities for
Wyoming businesses, especially our ag-
riculture producers selling our goods
like wheat and beef, increasing export
opportunities and the thousands of jobs
supported by trade in Wyoming.
USMCA will also benefit our small-
and medium-sized businesses, which al-
ready comprise 67 percent of our
State’s exports of machinery to Canada
and Mexico.
For too long, NAFTA allowed coun-
tries to take advantage of U.S. work-
ers. USMCA, negotiated by the Presi-
dent, is vital to strengthening our rela-
tionship with our North American
trade partners while still holding Can-
ada and Mexico accountable.
Madam Speaker, I support this cru-
cial trade deal because it will bring
tremendous benefits to my home State
of Wyoming and all across the Nation,
and I urge its approval today.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. DOGGETT).
Mr. DOGGETT. Madam Speaker, this
agreement is good for moving more
commerce across our three countries.
It means more jobs, and it means lower
prices for consumers. That is especially
important in Texas where the original
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.023 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12249
December 19, 2019
NAFTA was signed only a few blocks
from my San Antonio office: Mexico,
our top trading partner; Canada, our
second.
Some were so eager for this com-
merce that would be produced by con-
tinuing NAFTA that they were willing
to accept most any agreement. But, we
insisted that we get a much-improved
agreement to address the legitimate
concerns of those who raised objection
to previous agreements.
What we have today is an initial
step, an important step, toward achiev-
ing a truly 21st century trade agree-
ment that not only encourages trade
but protects the environment and rec-
ognizes the legitimate concerns of
workers. This victory results from
major changes in what President
Trump proposed 14 months ago.
First, we secured additional funding
for the North American Development
Bank, the NAD Bank, based in San An-
tonio, which is important in addressing
especially environmental concerns.
Second, and very significantly, we
deleted the horrible Big Pharma power
grab to extend its monopoly power for
prescription price gouging.
Third, each country was forced to
take all necessary measures to comply
with multilateral environmental agree-
ments which take precedence over
trade. This includes an additional re-
cent agreement to dramatically reduce
heat-trapping chemicals. In 2021, when
we have a new president who actually
believes in science, the agreement will
facilitate, not impede, our response to
the climate crisis.
And, finally, instead of platitudes, we
have an enforceable agreement to ad-
dress worker concerns. Let’s celebrate
a major step forward in building broad
public support for trade.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr.
SCHWEIKERT), an outstanding tech-
nology leader on the Ways and Means
Committee.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
I know we all had the points we want
to walk through, but can I actually
take a step sideways and do more a
unified theory reason why I think get-
ting this done is so incredibly impor-
tant.
We talk about our issues with trade
with China. We are living in a time
right now where supply chains are
choosing where to move around the
world. The fact of the matter is that
we are going to move North America
into a stable, much more robust trad-
ing bloc where we know what the rules
are. It gives us a chance to try to draw
much more of the world’s supply
chains—manufacturing, trade, and
commerce—as we get to be one of the
key hubs in the world. The rancor, the
fragility, the disagreements—hopefully
that is behind us now.
Being from the State of Arizona, we
also accomplished a number of things
in this trade agreement that are really
important. The de minimis rules,
where small businesses, internet-based
businesses, now have a fighting chance
to engage in commerce back and forth
across the border, and some of the
other rules of protections of IP and
data, we truly have modernized much
of this agreement.
Will this help the United States? I
sure hope so because you see a number
of predictions that this draws almost a
half a percent of GDP in growth. That
is wonderful. I wish we could have done
this a year ago, but we are finally get-
ting it done.
We are living almost in a miracle of
economic growth and economic sta-
bility. This just adds one more leg so
we can keep this going. We got the tax
policy right. We also have the inter-
national part of the tax policy right.
Now, hopefully, we are getting part of
the trade right. Can we continue to live
this economic expansion miracle
longer? I will make the argument that
getting this USMCA done is incredibly
important to this success.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, we con-
sider it a bit of a miracle that the gen-
tleman did not show up with his charts.
Madam Speaker, I yield 11⁄2 minutes
to the gentleman from California (Mr.
THOMPSON), whose invaluable work on
the committee and a steady hand all of
the time is very much appreciated.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of the USMCA implementing leg-
islation.
As a member of the working group, I
can tell you how far we have come. The
original agreement that was sent to
Congress was a total failure at pro-
tecting workers’ rights, providing ac-
cess to affordable medicine, and pro-
tecting our environment. Further, it
wasn’t enforceable.
The bill we have before us today is
the result of tireless work from Speak-
er PELOSI, Chairman NEAL, and the
working group members who rep-
resented the diverse views of Congress.
With gains achieved through our ne-
gotiations, this trade deal will set the
standard for all future trade agree-
ments. It is enforceable; it protects
workers; it helps address serious envi-
ronmental issues; and it protects ac-
cess to affordable medicine.
Finally, I thank the staff, which
worked tirelessly to get us to this day.
There were a lot of late nights and a
lot of weekends sacrificed to reach this
deal. Specifically, I thank the
Katherines, Katherine Tai and Kath-
erine Monge; the Trade Subcommittee
staff, Alexandra Whittaker, John
Catalfamo, Julia Friedman, Kate Con-
nor Linton, Katie White, and Keigan
Mull; and from my staff, my trade per-
son, Jennifer Goedke.
I commend the Speaker, the chair-
man, and all the Members who worked
so hard to get us here. All of those
good things that both sides have been
talking about today were not in the
first draft that we got from the White
House. This is a good bill because we
made it a good bill. I ask everybody to
support this bill.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. SCALISE),
the outstanding Republican whip.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
thank Chairman BRADY for yielding. I
thank all the people who we have
worked with to get to this point be-
cause passing the United States-Mex-
ico-Canada trade agreement is going to
be a major victory for American work-
ers, yet another sign that we can im-
prove on our current trade relation-
ships.
I think a lot of people were concerned
that maybe the President would pull
out of NAFTA because he was clearly
critical of the flaws of the previous
agreement. But what he did was actu-
ally go and negotiate with Mexico and
get a better deal for American workers.
Then he went to Canada, which might
have been a little more reluctant, but
he got a better deal with Canada, as
well.
What you see is not only a trade
agreement that is a major win for the
American economy—conservative esti-
mates show over 160,000 new jobs get
created. Agriculture gets a big win be-
cause many of our products that we
can’t sell to Canada now will be able to
be sent to those markets.
This shows how Congress can work
with this administration to do some-
thing that is really good for American
workers.
b 1115
But what it also does, Madam Speak-
er, is it sends a message to the rest of
the world that we can work with our
friends to get better trade deals, our
other friends around the world like
Japan, like the United Kingdom, who
would like to work to get better trade
deals. But if you can’t get a deal from
your neighbors from the north and
south, you surely are not going to be
able to get a deal with anyone else.
Now, this tells them that we can
close deals and that there are other
countries lining up that want to be a
part of this economy. We have the hot-
test economy in the world, and it is
only going to get better for workers
here.
But it then sends a message to China
that not just America wants to send,
but a message that all of our allies
around the world want to send, that
when you do business with America,
you have to follow the rules. You can’t
play by your own set of rules. And now,
for enforcement of deals, it really
shows that China is going to have to
become part of the world economy and
play by the rules that everyone else in
the world plays by.
That is an important win for all of
those forgotten men and women across
this country who appreciate the work
President Trump has done, Bob
Lighthizer, who has been his quarter-
back on this all the way through, and
everyone else. So it is going to be a big
win for our country and for our econ-
omy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.025 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12250 December 19, 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. LARSON), a member of
the working task force that assembled
the document in front of us today,
again, whose keen mind and good sense
is always very helpful to these debates.
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam
Speaker, I thank the chairman for
yielding, and I want to commend Rank-
ing Member BRADY and our colleagues
on the other side as well. It is always a
pleasure to know what this body can do
when we work together.
I also want to associate myself with
the remarks of the chairman for his in-
credible leadership. In his opening re-
marks, he underscored the key word
that is central to this agreement that
is far different from the previous
NAFTA agreement. It is ‘‘enforce-
ment.’’ It was his tenacity and the te-
nacity of the working group and the
subcommittee that made this happen.
I commend Speaker PELOSI for her
work and, clearly, for all the working
members of the task force for the effort
they put forward. MIKE THOMPSON has
already credited the staff for their out-
standing work, and I specifically want
to thank ROSA DELAURO, who also was
there for the first NAFTA vote as well
and is a strong and a tenacious de-
fender of labor.
The work of ROSA DELAURO, the work
of President Trumka, the work of Am-
bassador Lighthizer, these were salient
reasons that underscored Mr. NEAL’s
premise that enforcement at all levels,
but specifically as it related to labor
and environment, needed to be put in
place.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Nebraska (Mr. SMITH), the
elite Republican leader of the Select
Revenue Measures Subcommittee.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I almost heard my colleague
Mr. LARSON appreciate, I thought I
heard him say President Trump, but
then he did say ‘‘Trumka,’’ so I guess
maybe not so much similarity there.
But the fact of the matter is I appre-
ciate the few nudges that we have seen
over the last few weeks that have
brought us to this point.
And I certainly appreciate the work
of Ambassador Lighthizer and many on
President Trump’s team who have
worked so hard to get us to this point.
Representing an agriculture power-
house district, the Third District of Ne-
braska, where our farmers and ranch-
ers work very diligently and very effi-
ciently to help feed America and the
world, we need good markets for them.
Trade relationships in North America
are so important, and we have this op-
portunity to modernize NAFTA, head-
ing us in the direction of even more
markets and really reflecting the needs
of our economy and the economy
across North America.
We have got this opportunity to
bring people together, especially in
light of events this week. I certainly
appreciate this opportunity and our
leaders on the Ways and Means Com-
mittee, both Mr. BRADY and the chair-
man as well.
This is a great time to work to-
gether. I look forward to its passage
and urge everyone to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from Wis-
consin (Mr. KIND). His advocacy on be-
half of agriculture is well-known to all
in this body.
Mr. KIND. Madam Speaker, I rise in
proud support of this trade agreement.
It is important that we have a strong
trading relationship with our two bor-
der neighbors, Mexico and Canada, our
two biggest export markets.
I just caution my colleagues who
choose to vote ‘‘no’’ on this that a
‘‘no’’ vote is a return to the failed pol-
icy of the old NAFTA, the status quo,
rather than this more modernized
version.
I am happy that dairy farmers in
America are going to have greater ac-
cess to the Canadian market.
We made progress on poultry and
eggs.
We also tightened up the sanitary
and phytosanitary standards so that
those decisions have to be made on
sound science rather than arbitrary de-
cisions to block our agricultural ex-
ports.
We have, perhaps, the strongest
worker protection chapter ever in the
trade agreement, enhanced environ-
mental standards, all to level the play-
ing field for our workers, our farmers,
our businesses so they can fairly com-
pete rather than trying to compete in a
race to the bottom.
Perhaps most importantly, we have
the strongest enforcement chapter
ever, and we look forward to working
with Mexico and Canada to implement
it the right way to make sure we are
all playing by the same rules.
So this is solid, and I want to com-
mend the chair, the ranking member,
the working group, but also the staff
for the countless hours that they put in
to get us to this place, but especially
Ambassador Bob Lighthizer for his per-
severance and patience throughout
these months.
These were difficult negotiations.
This is what bipartisanship looks like
on the House floor, where we are able
to get this across the floor.
I encourage my colleagues to support
this agreement, support the Northern
Hemisphere economy. Show the rest of
the world that we are back in business.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
KELLY), a Main Street businessman
and the Republican leader of the Over-
sight Subcommittee.
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Madam Speaker, it is great to stand
here today, and what a difference a day
makes. It is really good to see Members
on both sides of the aisle stand up and
say: You know, we are really getting
things done for America.
I would like to say that this is a
Christmas gift that is wrapped up in
paper that is red, white, and blue. It is
a jobs bill: 176,000 jobs, $68 billion in
new revenue. And this was arrived at
because, in 2016, a candidate for the
Presidency made the same commit-
ment that everybody who ever runs for
the Presidency says: If I get elected, I
am going to make sure that we replace
NAFTA with something that makes
sense for American workers.
Promise made, promise kept. The
45th President of the United States has
been on a tear improving this economy.
Now, having said all that—and I do
have friends on both sides of the aisle.
I just think that sometimes when we
are on the floor here, it is impossible to
show that.
There is a saying at Christmastime
that says: Peace on Earth, and good
will to men.
That is not the saying. It is: Peace on
Earth to men of goodwill. That is a
saying we need to take here.
One story I will share with you: As a
child, I used to write a letter to Santa
Claus every Christmas, and I would tell
him everything I wanted. I would come
down Christmas morning, and I never
got everything I wanted, but I was sure
as heck thankful for everything I got.
This is a tremendous jobs bill for
America. This is a tremendous accom-
plishment. I can’t imagine anybody not
voting for this.
But I do want to take this oppor-
tunity to wish all of us a very Merry
Christmas, and all of the people back
home.
For the staffs on both sides, I thank
them for everything they did.
This is the way that America is sup-
posed to work and should continue to
work as we end 2019 and go into 2020. It
is a wonderful opportunity to show
America that, on the people’s floor in
the House of Representatives, we can
actually get things done.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, it is al-
ways an honor to endorse the Speaker
of the House and to welcome her to the
floor, but also to point something out.
On weekends, from Brussels, from
Madrid, from Paris, she called me. And
on the final weekend, time and again,
with the U.S. trade rep on the line, the
three of us went back and forth with
Rich Trumka, who was in Pennsyl-
vania on vacation, who couldn’t have
cell access until 5 o’clock in the
evening. The Speaker was totally in-
volved in this endeavor.
But most importantly, she called me
in the middle of a Patriots game, and I
was smart enough to take the call.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
PELOSI).
Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, that is
while I was watching what was hap-
pening with the San Francisco 49ers
and the Baltimore Ravens. Sports,
sports, the center of our lives. That is
the unifying factor.
We all are for our teams—aren’t
we?—and, hopefully, we are all Team
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.027 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12251
December 19, 2019
USA. Now we can prove that on this
U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement.
While I was calling the distinguished
chairman, I was in Brussels for the 75th
anniversary of the Battle of the Bulge.
We had a bipartisan delegation there to
thank our veterans. All of them were
in their nineties, many of whom who
were there, so we could thank them
personally and be there to see them ac-
knowledged by heads of state and the
rest.
In terms of Spain, it was about we
are still in it when it comes to the
Paris accord. So, work, work, work.
But this was a priority, and time was
important. We were trying to get it
done as soon as it met the standards
that we share.
I proudly rise to join my colleagues
on this exciting day as the House
passes a historic trade agreement that
is truly worthy of the American people,
a new and dramatically improved U.S.-
Canada-Mexico trade agreement.
I salute Chairman RICHARD NEAL, a
lifelong champion for working people,
the maestro in the House on our side of
this process, who helped deliver a trade
agreement that will serve as a model
for future trade agreements.
I thank each member of the Trade
Working Group who worked so hard to
improve the product that was sent
originally by the administration nearly
2 years ago to where we are now.
I thank Chairman BLUMENAUER,
chairman of the Trade Subcommittee,
walking in now; Congresswoman ROSA
DELAURO; Congressman JOHN LARSON;
Congresswoman JAN SCHAKOWSKY; Con-
gressman MIKE THOMPSON; Congress-
woman TERRI SEWELL; Congresswoman
SUZANNE BONAMICI; and Congressman
JIMMY GOMEZ, each of them working on
the different categories that are men-
tioned: enforcement, labor rights, envi-
ronmental protections, and pharma-
ceuticals.
I thank every Member for their wis-
dom, leadership, and commitment to
delivering for the people during this
process.
I was just asked in a press con-
ference: Aren’t you giving President
Trump—Mr. BRADY always asks this
question—aren’t you giving the Presi-
dent a victory to boast about?
I said: That would be collateral ben-
efit if we could come together to sup-
port America’s working families. And
if the President wants to take credit,
so be it. That would not stand in the
way of our passing this. However, I do
want to point out some of the distance
we have come from the President’s
original product.
The House Democratic Caucus is
united in our values and our priority to
making progress for America’s working
families in everything we do, including
this trade agreement.
We all thank Trade Representative
Lighthizer, Mr. Ambassador, for being
an honest broker and straight shooter
with us as we worked toward an agree-
ment. Not every day was without its,
shall we say, exuberances, but this day
is possible because of the hard work of
many Members representing every cor-
ner of our country.
We thank Richard Trumka, president
of the AFL–CIO, a true warrior for
workers, who helped secure an agree-
ment that is light-years better than
what the administration proposed 2
years ago.
Democrats knew that hardworking
Americans needed more from the
USMCA than just some broken NAFTA
with better language but no real en-
forcement. That was my concern: We
just can’t come up with a bill that is a
little sugar on the top and say this is
better, because the impact on workers
would be felt for a long time to come.
And we knew we could do better.
The original USMCA draft put forth
by the administration fell far short of
where it is now. It still left many
American workers exposed to losing
their jobs to Mexico; included unac-
ceptable provisions, locking in high
drug prices; came up short on key envi-
ronmental standards; critically lacked
the tough, effective enforcements that
are essential to protect American jobs
and holding our trading partners ac-
countable to their promises.
After months of Democrats working
with the Trade Representative, we
have key changes to the USMCA that
make this a truly transformative
agreement for America’s workers.
Now, with Democratic changes, the
USMCA has the strongest enforcement
mechanism of any U.S. trade agree-
ment. Again, in contrast to the origi-
nal USMCA draft which would have al-
lowed nations that do not live up to
their obligations to stop enforcement
complaints from even being heard,
Democrats’ changes prevented nations
from panel blocking.
For workers, while the administra-
tion drafts stack the deck against
labor violation claims, our changes
enact new rules and monitoring tools
to protect American workers, pros-
ecute labor violations, and ensure that
Mexico is complying with labor re-
forms.
Other points that are for the workers
include establishing labor attaches
based in Mexico who will provide on-
the-ground information about Mexico’s
labor practices and creating a facility-
specific rapid response law enforce-
ment mechanism to stop trade in goods
that violate this agreement.
These are not technical changes.
These make a big difference.
b 1130
For the environment, whereas the ad-
ministration’s draft had weak environ-
mental rules and tilted the playing
field against violation claims, demo-
crats have strengthened the rules and
enforcement tools and are lowering
pollution and increasing resilient in-
frastructure.
Sadly, while the administration re-
fuses to acknowledge the existence, let
alone the urgency, of the climate cri-
sis, our changes in the USMCA set a
firm footing for progress when we have
a President who brings us back to the
Paris accord.
And, by the way, when we were in
Spain on this subject, our large bi-
cameral delegation’s theme was ‘‘we
are still in’’ when it came to the Paris
accord.
For lowering prescription drug costs,
the White House draft contained unac-
ceptable giveaways for Big Pharma
that would have locked in high pre-
scription drug prices.
Democrats have eliminated these un-
fair handouts to big corporations and
secured provisions to lower drug costs
and improve access to life-saving medi-
cines.
The changes House Democrats have
secured in the USMCA make this a
truly transformational trade agree-
ment. As the AFL–CIO wrote in their
letter of support last week, we have se-
cured an agreement that working peo-
ple can proudly support.
Working people are responsible for a
deal that is a vast improvement over
the original NAFTA and the flawed
proposal brought forward in 2017. For
the first time, there truly will be en-
forceable labor standards.
The USMCA also eliminates special
carve-outs for corporations like the big
giveaway to Big Pharma in the admin-
istration’s initial proposal and loop-
holes designed to make it harder to
prosecute labor violations.
The USMCA is far from perfect, but
there is no denying that the trade rules
in America are fairer because of the
hard work of so many people, and our
perseverance. Working people have cre-
ated a new standard for future trade
negotiations.
Indeed, the strength of Democrats’
USMCA is recognized by endorsements
from groups representing tens of mil-
lions of Americans across industries
and geographies: labor groups and
trade organizations; farmers, growers,
and ranchers; groups representing busi-
nesses around the country; social jus-
tice, and faith-based organizations,
such as NETWORK.
The list goes on and on, and it will be
part of the statement that I include in
the RECORD.
This is a strong agreement that hon-
ors our promises For the People to give
us bigger paychecks and makes a dif-
ference for millions.
With all the respect in the world for
our neighbors, our respect for the
greatness of Mexico as our neighbor,
and the friendship that we have and
want to engender, and our neighbor to
the north, Canada, with respect to
them, our responsibility is to have a
trade agreement that lifts all workers
in our hemisphere. Our first responsi-
bility is to American workers.
I urge a bipartisan vote for the
USMCA and urge Senator MCCONNELL
to take the bill up quickly. We can
send it right over, and he can take it
up anytime.
If the Senate Republicans care about
workers, they will no doubt join us to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.028 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12252 December 19, 2019
send this bill to the President’s desk in
the House and in the Senate.
Madam Speaker, I commend our
chairman, RICHARD NEAL, for his out-
standing work. I know that you have a
good rapport with Ranking Member
BRADY. I thank all the Members who
are responsible for bringing this to the
floor.
AFL–CIO,
December 10, 2019.
AFL–CIO ENDORSES USMCA AFTER
SUCCESSFULLY NEGOTIATING IMPROVEMENTS
LABOR FEDERATION PRESIDENT RICHARD
TRUMKA ON THE UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CAN-
ADA AGREEMENT (USMCA), PROVIDED FINAL
TEXT ACCURATELY REFLECTS CHANGES:
Make no mistake, we demanded a trade
deal that benefits workers and fought every
single day to negotiate that deal; and now
we have secured an agreement that working
people can proudly support.
I am grateful to House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi and her allies on the USMCA working
group, along with Senate champions like
Sherrod Brown and Ron Wyden, for standing
strong with us throughout this process as we
demanded a truly enforceable agreement. I
also commend Ambassador Robert
Lighthizer for being a straight shooter and
an honest broker as we worked toward a res-
olution.
Working people are responsible for a deal
that is a vast improvement over both the
original NAFTA and the flawed proposal
brought forward in 2017. For the first time,
there truly will be enforceable labor stand-
ards-including a process that allows for the
inspections of factories and facilities that
are not living up to their obligations.
The USMCA also eliminates special carve
outs for corporations like the giveaway to
Big Pharma in the administration’s initial
proposal and loopholes designed to make it
harder to prosecute labor violations.
The USMCA is far from perfect. It alone is
not a solution for outsourcing, inequality or
climate change. Successfully tackling these
issues requires a full-court press of economic
policies that empower workers, including the
repeal of tax cuts which reward companies
for shipping our jobs overseas.
But there is no denying that the trade
rules in America will now be fairer because
of our hard work and perseverance. Working
people have created a new standard for fu-
ture trade negotiations.
President Trump may have opened this
deal. But working people closed it. And for
that, we should be very proud.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. WENSTRUP), who is a key member
of the Ways and Means Committee and
who hails from a huge trade State.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker,
for over a year the administration and
Republicans in Congress have empha-
sized the urgency of passing the new
United States-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment, the USMCA.
With this bipartisan vote, and with
the hard work from both sides of the
aisle, we finally have the opportunity
to rebalance North American trade. In
spite of delays, this opportunity that
exists for all Americans is finally here
today.
It has been 25 years since our North
American Trade Agreement was estab-
lished, and it has not been updated to
reflect the modern economy.
Under this new trade agreement, our
farmers, manufacturers, and workers
will finally have a deal that modern-
izes North American trade, boosts our
economy, and strengthens our Nation’s
role in the global trading market.
American farmers will now have in-
creased access to the Canadian market
to sell products like dairy, poultry,
eggs, and wheat, a vast improvement
over the status quo.
It improves intellectual property pro-
visions that will protect innovation,
safeguard American trade secrets in
Canada and Mexico, though certain
protections could be stronger.
USMCA also modernizes trade with
Canada and Mexico by establishing a
new gold-standard digital trade chapter
to continue the growth of our digital
economy. It includes a new chapter
dedicated to helping small- and me-
dium-sized businesses, which make up
98 percent of our Nation’s exporters.
Our economy relies on trade with our
North American neighbors, and these
additions will support American com-
panies, farmers, and workers. In fact,
USMCA is predicted to create over $68
billion in new economic activity and
176,000 new jobs here in America.
USMCA is a win for the United
States and a win for North America. At
long last, Americans will have an up-
dated trade agreement that works for
them. The stage is set for further
agreements that help hardworking
Americans.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank the
President, Ambassador Lighthizer, and
all of my colleagues for working so
hard on this over the last couple of
years. I encourage Members to support
this.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. PASCRELL).
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman and Mr. BRADY. I
thank Messrs. BLUMENAUER and
BUCHANAN for the great job that they
did. I also thank Mr. Lighthizer. He is
a different kind of guy, and I really be-
lieve that he was essential to getting
to this vote today.
In my entire political life, I have
never had anyone say to me, as was
said today, that if you vote against
this, you are voting for the status quo.
I even have a Jerry Garcia tie on
today. Me and the status quo don’t
agree most of the time.
So there are some questions that do
remain.
The ship of human rights has not
been righted. The President never once
mentioned in any speech, during 2016
until now, about human rights and
about workers’ rights in discussing
NAFTA. Mexican workers are still
being treated like chattel, American
jobs will still flow through other coun-
tries, and sham protection unions will
still own the day. This bill has made
many improvements, but it is not
enough.
Some can say: Is there ever enough?
There are too many questions.
Will Mexico be held accountable to
fully enforce their labor laws?
We don’t know.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Kan-
sas (Mr. ESTES), who is an outstanding
new member of the Ways and Means
Committee.
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I thank
my colleague and friend from Texas for
yielding, and I am proud to rise today
to support the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement.
Since President Trump announced
the USMCA over 1 year ago, I have
urged my colleagues across the aisle to
join us in supporting this important
trade agreement and getting it across
the finish line. Today, I am thrilled to
speak on the floor and ask my col-
leagues to support it one last time.
The journey to this day has been
longer and harder than it should have
been. For too long USMCA has taken a
backseat to some partisan politics
causing farmers, ranchers, and workers
across the country to miss out on eco-
nomic growth and jobs in the mean-
time. However, today we are taking a
giant step forward in finally making
that free and fair trade deal a reality.
The U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement
will create 176,000 new jobs in our coun-
try and will boost the national GDP by
$68 billion. It is important for farmers
and ranchers in my State. The USMCA
opens up new markets for American
dairy, wheat, chicken, eggs, and turkey
for the first time. This deal also helps
U.S. manufacturing jobs and increases
wages.
NAFTA was created 25 years ago, and
the USMCA will now be the first trade
agreement with a chapter dedicated to
digital trade and sets new standards for
labor and the environment.
I want to thank President Trump and
Ambassador Lighthizer for their in-
credible leadership over the last couple
of years to follow through on another
campaign pledge and negotiate this up-
date to NAFTA. I also want to thank
Chairman NEAL and Ranking Member
BRADY for their leadership to ensure
that our Ways and Means Committee
and Congress were involved in this
process all along the way.
This is an important victory for
President Trump and for millions of
farmers, ranchers, and workers across
our country who will benefit from the
USMCA. As a strong advocate for free
and fair trade, I proudly support the
USMCA and look forward to working
with the Senate to send this to the
President’s desk as soon as possible.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from Illi-
nois (Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS), who is a
well-known champion of all things Chi-
cago and a great advocate of working
men and women.
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I have always been
told, if there is righteousness in the
heart, then there is beauty in the char-
acter. I think what we have seen this
week and what we are seeing today is
the righteousness of the Members of
this House who take the position that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.030 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12253
December 19, 2019
neither side will get everything that it
wants.
I certainly won’t get everything that
I want for the State of Illinois, but I
have got dairy farmers—not as many
as RON KIND may have in Wisconsin—I
have got corn growers in Illinois and
soybean growers—maybe not as many
as there are in Iowa. But the com-
prehensiveness of the communities
that we represent demand that we
come together.
So I want to commend Chairman
NEAL, our ranking member, the work-
ing group, and the Speaker of the
House because it took all of them to
make this work.
So, Madam Speaker, I am going to
vote for it. I admit that I feel a great
deal like BILL PASCRELL, but I am
going to vote for it because we need to
come together and do what we can for
the American people.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from In-
diana (Mrs. WALORSKI), who is a happy
Hoosier and a champion for low tariffs
and free trade.
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I
am indeed happy, and I am thrilled
today to actually be here and cast my
vote for the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment, or the USMCA. I can’t tell you
enough of what it will do for our dis-
tricts in northern Indiana.
The hardworking Hoosiers in Indi-
ana’s Second District are builders and
growers. We manufacture most of the
RVs you see on the road and a large
portion of boats and trailers that you
see on many lakes. We manufacture
auto parts and musical instruments.
Our farmers put food on the table, in-
cluding corn, soybeans, pork, duck,
eggs, and dairy products. Mexico and
Canada are key export markets for all
of them and the workers they employ.
It has been 25 years since NAFTA has
been in force. Technology, transpor-
tation, and consumer habits have all
evolved; NAFTA, however, stayed the
same. Politicians promised the sky
when it came to trade agreements, but
President Trump promised to mod-
ernize NAFTA, and, unlike anyone
else, he kept that promise with
USMCA.
USMCA dismantles trade barriers
that stood in the way of American ex-
ports for so long. For farmers in my
district, this means more dairy, more
poultry, and more eggs are heading to
Canada. For manufacturers, this means
fewer paperwork headaches that slow
down shipments and prevent them alto-
gether. For businesses of all sizes,
types, and shapes, this means e-com-
merce standards that promote fair
competition and that will be used as a
standard in future agreements. For
workers, this means more jobs staying
in the United States.
Robust enforcement ensures that the
potential of the USMCA does not evap-
orate overnight. The promises made by
all sides will be promises kept by all
sides.
Madam Speaker, this day is long
overdue, but I am so happy it is finally
here. Our economy is booming thanks
to tax cuts and regulatory reforms, and
now USMCA will keep that momentum
going. It will put more money in work-
ers’ pockets, and it will help small
businesses thrive.
It is a big win for President Trump
and Ambassador Lighthizer, and it is a
big win for America.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this agreement.
b 1145
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Buffalo,
New York (Mr. HIGGINS).
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Madam Speaker, the economic future
of Buffalo and western New York is
tied strategically to southern Ontario,
which is one-third of the entire popu-
lation of the country of Canada.
I am pleased that this agreement
strengthens the U.S.-Canadian eco-
nomic and life quality relations. I am
concerned, however, that the U.S.-
Mexican economic relationship is more
challenging.
The United States has lost 6 million
manufacturing jobs in the past 20
years, and 53,000 manufacturing busi-
nesses have closed. NAFTA’s promise
of wage convergence, bringing Mexican
wages to Canadian and U.S. standards,
has failed. The Mexican wage is $5.10 a
day, less than $0.64 an hour.
We have good reason to be skeptical
of Mexico’s commitment to do better.
The USMCA, however, because of
Chairman RICHARD NEAL’s leadership
and emphasis on rigorous enforcement,
does have the potential for improved
Mexican compliance on wages, the en-
vironment, and labor standards.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. MARCHANT), a leader on free trade
from the Dallas-Fort Worth area.
Mr. MARCHANT. Madam Speaker,
the United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement is a revolutionary trade
deal that will usher in a new era of eco-
nomic prosperity and growth for Amer-
icans across the country.
Texas, in particular, stands ready to
thrive under this agreement. Our State
exports more to Mexico than any other
and is second in exports to Canada.
Each year, over $135 billion worth of
Texan goods are sent to our two closest
trading partners, supporting over
114,000 jobs in Texas.
The reforms in the USMCA will en-
sure that we continue to have free and
fair access to international market-
places, keeping prices low for Ameri-
cans and business booming for business
and workers.
Madam Speaker, I thank the chair-
man and the ranking member, my good
friend, for shepherding this through.
Members on the other side of the aisle,
I have been in legislatures for a long
time, and I always believed that, on
this bill, you were trying to get to
‘‘yes’’ on it. I appreciate the hours that
you met, and Texas will appreciate
every vote that is cast for this bill.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Alabama (Ms. SEWELL), who, again, was
an invaluable member of the Trade
Working Group. Her advocacy for peo-
ple in her constituency is well known
to all.
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in strong support
of this trade deal. I was honored that
Speaker PELOSI asked me to join the
Democratic Trade Working Group.
We, the Gang of 8, along with you,
Mr. Chairman, worked tirelessly for 6
months, negotiating with Bob
Lighthizer, the U.S. Ambassador on
trade. We took what was a very weak
and unenforceable trade deal and made
it into a renegotiated trade agreement
that will protect American workers
and businesses.
This bill we vote on today is a re-
negotiated USMCA. I am particularly
proud that the working group won two
major concessions on enforcement.
First, we closed the panel-blocking
loophole and created a strong state-to-
state mechanism for enforcement. Sec-
ond, we created a first-of-its-kind rapid
response mechanism to improve labor
enforcement in Mexico.
This deal is a win for the Steel-
workers and Teamsters in my Alabama
district. It is a win for the automobile
manufacturers and steel industry in
the State of Alabama. It is a win for
Alabama farmers and agriculture pro-
ducers.
This renegotiated trade agreement is
a much-improved North American Free
Trade Agreement, and it is because of
that that I ask my fellow colleagues to
support it.
Madam Speaker, I, again, thank
Chairman NEAL, Speaker of the House
NANCY PELOSI, my fellow Gang of 8
working group members, as well as Bob
Lighthizer, and our especially hard-
working staff. I thank, especially,
Katherine Tai and my own staffer, Rob
Nuttall, for all of their hard work on
getting us there.
I do believe that this is a win for ev-
eryone, and I urge my colleagues to
support this new, renegotiated USMCA.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. REED), a champion in manu-
facturing and the Republican leader of
Subcommittee on Social Security.
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Texas for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise today because
this is a good day. I don’t want to dis-
cuss yesterday. I don’t want to discuss
issues that divide us in this Chamber.
I want to discuss, today, the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement be-
cause that has brought us together.
When we come together, who wins in
that situation? Not us as Members of
the House of Representatives, not us
here in Washington, D.C., but the
American people.
I was reminded recently, this morn-
ing, that, about 2 years ago, we deliv-
ered on tax cuts, and I stood exactly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.032 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12254 December 19, 2019
right here, and I knew that was going
to unleash the American economy. We
have an economy now at an all-time
high, with 50-year lows for unemploy-
ment and 1.4 million new jobs in Amer-
ica.
Today, we have come together for the
American worker, the American farm-
er. We have united as Democrats and
Republicans to do something good for
our fellow citizens, and that is this up-
dated United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement.
As I stood here 2 years ago and had a
discussion with my good friend from
New York, Mr. Crowley, who is no
longer here, I declared in one voice
saying, hell, yes, I am going to vote for
those tax cuts, and, hell, yes, I am
going to vote for this Mexico-Canada
trade agreement, because what we are
doing here is, again, unleashing the
power of America. Standing together,
it is amazing what we can accomplish.
Madam Speaker, I applaud Chairman
NEAL. I applaud the Democratic Trade
Working Group. I applaud the other
side of the aisle for standing with us
today for the American workers and
American farmers.
I also applaud President Trump for
having the vision and the leadership to
take on this issue when everyone told
him it cannot be done.
Madam Speaker, I also applaud
KEVIN BRADY, VERN BUCHANAN, and
DEVIN NUNES, and members of the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means who stood
forward and said: You know what we
are going to do? We are going to make
sure we stand for a principle we believe
in. That is the American opportunity
of a job in an economy that is growing
and playing on a field across the world
where we have a fair and level playing
field of trade. Because, when we have
fair, free trade, the American worker
wins each and every day.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to support this legislation.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. DELBENE), whose
well-acknowledged efforts on behalf of
the best and most important trade
State in the country, Washington, as
well as being a knowledgeable fore-
caster of international economics for
all benefit all of us on the committee.
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding. I
rise in support of the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement and the im-
plementing legislation.
Congressional Democrats worked
hard to secure labor-specific enforce-
ment tools and robust environmental
provisions that make this agreement a
substantial improvement over the
original NAFTA.
Most importantly, this new agree-
ment helps many of my constituents.
Now, our dairy farmers will have great-
er market access to Canada, and our
wineries will have an easier time sell-
ing their wine in British Columbia.
When this new agreement is in place,
it will be the first U.S. trade agree-
ment with a digital trade chapter. It
includes provisions on data localiza-
tion, cross-border data flows, and other
requirements that preserve a free and
open internet. That is important to all
segments of our economy.
My district is home to a vibrant
technology industry that is responsible
for thousands of good-paying jobs and
helps power America’s large trade sur-
plus in digital services.
Madam Speaker, I hope my col-
leagues will join me in supporting this
agreement.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. NUNES), Republican leader
of the Health Subcommittee and the
outstanding leader of the Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence.
Mr. NUNES. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for those kind words,
and I am pleased that we have over-
come numerous delays and are finally
passing a North American trade deal
for the 21st century.
USMCA will create jobs, boost the
economy, and strengthen our relation-
ship with our neighbors in Canada and
Mexico. I want to express my gratitude
to Ambassador Robert Lighthizer and
his team, and Gregg Doud and his staff,
for the hard work they have done on
this agreement.
I also commend the President for de-
livering, yet again, for American farm-
ers and workers under USMCA. Under
this agreement, ag products that had
zero tariffs under NAFTA will continue
to be tariff-free. Our farmers and
ranchers will gain additional access to
the remaining protected sectors. En-
forcement will be enhanced to ensure
the agreement is implemented cor-
rectly.
Updated dispute mechanisms will en-
sure the United States has prompt ac-
cess to a dispute settlement panel,
when needed, to allow U.S. businesses
to compete on a level playing field.
This is a great bipartisan agreement
that will bring huge benefits to mil-
lions of Americans, and I urge my col-
leagues to support USMCA.
Finally, I thank Chairman NEAL and
Ranking Member BRADY for all of their
great work on this. I know it was not
easy, but you guys did a really great
work. I think the American people owe
you a debt of gratitude.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
to the gentlewoman from California
(Ms. JUDY CHU), another invaluable
member of the Committee on Ways and
Means whose knowledge about south-
ern California is very important to all
of us.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in support of the
improved USMCA. With the changes
demanded by Democrats from the
original proposal, this agreement
marks a historic step that will stop the
bleeding of American jobs to other
countries.
Free trade agreements have often
meant lost jobs or lower wages for
American workers, and the Trump ad-
ministration’s initial USMCA was no
different. But Democrats fought back
to win new labor protections that
make this deal actually work for
Americans.
I have seen firsthand why these pro-
tections are so important. Earlier this
year, I traveled on the Committee on
Ways and Means’ trip to Mexico to in-
vestigate the labor challenges we are
facing.
At a Goodyear plant, I spoke directly
to workers whose starting pay was only
$2 an hour and even less after deduc-
tions. Then, when these workers went
on strike to demand better wages,
nearly 50 labor leaders were harassed,
threatened with violence, and fired.
This means that a company that pays
American workers $23 an hour and
made $15.5 billion in sales last year
would rather fire Mexican workers
than pay them a fair wage.
It is one of the many examples that
explains why companies outsource jobs
and exploit labor in other countries.
And it is why Democrats fought so
hard for a USMCA deal with strong
labor protections to ensure a level
playing field.
This trade deal isn’t perfect, but it is
an important step in the right direc-
tion and protects American jobs.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. ARRINGTON), the food, fuel, and
fiber capital of the world.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
couldn’t have said that better myself. I
thank the ranking member, my dear
friend from the great State of Texas,
for his leadership on this very impor-
tant trade deal, our largest and most
important relationship of all of our
trading relationships.
I thank our chairman, Chairman
NEAL, for keeping this thing on track
and keeping people in the game so we
could have a bipartisan consensus.
That is the only way this could work,
so the chairman is to be commended
for his efforts.
But let’s give credit where credit is
due, for the one who led the charge,
who did the heavy lifting, our Presi-
dent, Donald J. Trump. I am saying
this because in 2016, he was already
calling out some of these trade deals as
a rip-off of American workers and man-
ufacturers.
While NAFTA was a great deal for
farmers and ranchers, we saw a 400 per-
cent increase in trade for ag products
since the inception of NAFTA. It
hasn’t been good all the way around. It
hasn’t been fair all the way around. It
hasn’t been productive, in terms of
keeping jobs here in the United States.
b 1200
So kudos to our President for his
dogged commitment to American-first
trade policies. That doesn’t mean
America only. It means that we nego-
tiate from strength, and we negotiate
what is in the best interest of Amer-
ican workers, manufacturers, and
farmers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.033 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12255
December 19, 2019
That is what this does: $70 billion in
economic growth, 170,000 jobs, and bil-
lions in investment that will go into
the auto manufacturing sector.
Our producers, dairy producers and
other farmers, are going to have open
access to new customers in Canada, so
this is a huge win for America.
I want to join all my colleagues, Re-
publican and Democrat, and champion
this all the way through. So I urge my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle,
vote ‘‘yes’’ for USMCA, and vote for an
even greater America and an even
greater prospect for American pros-
perity.
God bless America.
Go west Texas.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. EVANS), whose dis-
trict I recently visited, a real cham-
pion of the airport, a real champion of
the seaport, and a real champion of
international economics.
Mr. EVANS. Madam Speaker, I would
like to first thank the chairman and
the working group for working to-
gether.
Trade can be a poverty buster. It is a
powerful tool in the toolbox by increas-
ing the earning power of our commu-
nities and creating well-paying jobs.
Coming from the city of Philadel-
phia, which nearly has 25 percent pov-
erty, well-paying jobs are the dif-
ference between thriving and surviving.
Let me say that again: thriving and
surviving. That is why this is impor-
tant.
Trade is especially beneficial to mi-
nority-owned businesses. Minority-
owned exporting businesses average
three times more workers and pay a
wage premium of nearly $16,000 more.
That is why I thank the chairman
and the staff in the working group, be-
cause of their leadership. This really
sends a message to the entire world
that we want free trade, but also fair
trade.
It is especially important to under-
stand that everybody doesn’t get ev-
erything they want. That is called ne-
gotiation.
Again, I stand here today, proudly, to
say I am supporting this 100 percent.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Illi-
nois (Mr. LAHOOD), an outstanding
member of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee.
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I
thank the ranking member for yielding
the time.
I rise today in support of the
USMCA.
And let’s call this what it is: It is a
win for America. It is a win for our
farmers. It is a win for our manufactur-
ers. It is a win for our workers.
For the past 21⁄2 years, so many peo-
ple have worked tirelessly to ensure
that this high-standard and modernized
trade agreement got completed.
I would especially thank Chairman
NEAL and Ranking Member BRADY and
our Ways and Means staff for all the
hard work and the commitment and
dedication to getting this done.
Also, to Bob Lighthizer. There is not
a more capable trade ambassador that
we have had than Bob Lighthizer. He
has been relentless in his pursuit of
getting this done.
Lastly, President Trump, it wouldn’t
have happened without him and what
he did working with the Canadians and
the Mexicans to get this trade agree-
ment done.
This free and fair trade agreement
benefits all of us, all sectors of our
economy. Moreover, it will further sup-
port the record-breaking economic
growth that this country has seen. We,
arguably, have the best economy we
have had in 40 years, and this will help
that.
It is true that this agreement is not
perfect. There are a few things that I
would have liked to have seen done dif-
ferently on sunset provision and ISDS
and rules of origin.
But, at the end of the day, when you
look at these 24 chapters and what it
does to market access for agriculture,
to digital trade provisions, USMCA
puts America on top, and it shows the
world that, with our two largest trad-
ing partners, Mexico and Canada, we
can negotiate an agreement that is
solid.
Remember, we represent 41⁄2 percent
of the world’s population. We have to
have markets around the world. This
agreement sets the standard for doing
that.
In Congress, I am proud to represent
the 18th District of Illinois. It is the
eighth largest district in terms of corn
and soybean production. When I think
about what this does for market ac-
cess, breaking down barriers, this helps
our farmers.
In Illinois, ag is the number one in-
dustry in our State. I think about our
manufacturers and what this means for
jobs and opportunities for them for
products in Canada and Mexico.
The ability to sell our goods, prod-
ucts, and services around the world is
absolutely vital to economic success in
Illinois and across the country. Forty
percent of the products we grow,
produce, or manufacture in Illinois go
to Canada or Mexico. This helps with
that.
In closing, I would just say this is a
good agreement. I look forward to sup-
porting it, and I would ask my col-
leagues to do the same.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from Illi-
nois (Mr. SCHNEIDER), a very knowl-
edgeable member of the Ways and
Means Committee whose district I vis-
ited not that long ago.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker, I
want to associate myself with the re-
marks of my colleague from Illinois.
This is a win for American workers,
for their families, for their commu-
nities, and for our Nation as a whole.
I want to thank Chairman NEAL and
Ranking Member BRADY, the working
group, and, in particular, our staff, who
worked so hard, tirelessly, to bring this
deal forward.
The USMCA legislation before us
today is the result of many months of
hard-fought negotiations between Con-
gress and the administration, and it is
a true victory for working people and
our country.
Compared to the initial version of
the agreement shared by the White
House last year, the improved trade
agreement before us today includes
markedly stronger protections for
American workers and crucially seri-
ous enforcement mechanisms that en-
sure all parties will follow the agree-
ment.
While I believe the agreement in-
cludes higher standards to preserve our
environment, I do regret the adminis-
tration was unwilling to make any
commitments to address the very real
and pressing issues of climate change.
Nevertheless, the USMCA is a major
step forward for American workers and
businesses fighting to compete in an
increasingly interconnected world. It
also puts to rest the President’s threat
to pull out of NAFTA without the cer-
tainty of a replacement.
A testament to the hard-fought nego-
tiations is the backing of this agree-
ment from stakeholders as diverse as
the AFL–CIO and the United States
Chamber of Commerce.
I support the passage of the USMCA
implementing language, and I urge my
colleagues to do the same.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. RICE), an outstanding
member of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee.
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, this is a great day for Amer-
ican workers.
The nameplate on my desk says,
‘‘Jobs, Jobs, Jobs,’’ and that is exactly
what this new trade agreement will
bring.
You see, for too long, America was
willing to accept trade agreements
that were tilted against American
workers because we were so far ahead
of the rest of the world, but we are not
so far ahead anymore.
Ross Perot was right all those years
ago when he said the old NAFTA would
bring a giant sucking sound of Amer-
ican jobs going to Mexico, and that is
precisely what happened in my district.
Unfair trade agreements are one of
the primary reasons that the American
middle class has stagnated for dec-
ades—until the election of Donald
Trump.
The new USMCA corrects much of
this imbalance:
It will prevent the departure of many
more Americans jobs;
It will bring hundreds of thousands of
new jobs to America;
It will raise the wages of workers
throughout North America; and
It will accelerate the growth of our
American economy.
I am thankful for the talent and ef-
fort of Ambassador Lighthizer in suc-
cessfully reaching this incredibly com-
plicated trilateral agreement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.036 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12256 December 19, 2019
I am also thankful that we finally
have a President with the backbone
and determination to do what is nec-
essary to bring our trading partners to
the table, many of whom have taken
advantage of us for far too long, and
despite the criticism of many here in
our own country. Our President is
doing what is right and fair for Amer-
ica and American workers.
Finally, Madam Speaker, I am
thankful that Speaker PELOSI has fi-
nally found a moment of sufficient po-
litical expedience that she would allow
this vote to lift American workers.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. PANETTA), a very in-
valuable member of the Ways and
Means Committee, advocate of the
‘‘Salad Bowl of the World,’’ and a good
friend.
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in support of USMCA.
That is right. The chairman is abso-
lutely correct. I represent the central
coast of California, and I fondly call it
the ‘‘Salad Bowl of the World.’’
With agriculture being our number
one industry, trade with Canada and
Mexico and, thus, the USMCA is very,
very important. This deal will provide
our farmers and ranchers with contin-
ued, yet improved, access to those im-
portant markets.
It will also strengthen those sanitary
and phytosanitary standards and make
sure that sound science is used when it
comes to our food safety, and it helps
California wine get into those Cana-
dian markets.
When this administration first pre-
sented USMCA to Congress, I have to
say, it was unacceptable. However,
thanks to Speaker PELOSI, Chairman
NEAL, the Trade Working Group and,
you bet, Ambassador Lighthizer, we
were able to come up with one of the
strongest, most progressive deals in
the United States’ history.
The USMCA now has some of the
most stringent labor standards, some
of the most robust funding for enforce-
ability, and some of the strongest re-
quirements for the environment ever.
The USMCA frames a new floor for
future trade agreements. It creates new
confidence in our most important trad-
ing partners, and it provides protection
for the future of our fresh produce on
our farms, for the dignity of our work-
ers, for the sanctity of our environ-
ment, and, yes, for the success of our
economy and our hemisphere.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I in-
clude in the RECORD a series of state-
ments in support of USMCA, including
from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
the Information Technology Industry
Council, the Business Roundtable, the
National Association of Manufacturers,
the American Farm Bureau, who join a
host of business, agriculture, tech-
nology, manufacturing, and small busi-
ness organizations across America that
have been instrumental in getting
USMCA across the finish line.
U.S. CHAMBER OF COMMERCE,
CONGRESSIONAL & PUBLIC AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, December 18, 2019.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE U.S. HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES: The U.S. Chamber of
Commerce strongly supports H.R. 5430, the
‘‘United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
(USMCA) Implementation Act,’’ which would
strengthen trade ties that support millions
of American jobs. The Chamber will include
votes on this bill in our annual How They
Voted scorecard.
The case for approval of this legislation is
strong. First, it would strengthen U.S. trade
ties with Canada and Mexico, which are by
far our most important export markets.
More than 12 million American jobs—in sec-
tors from agriculture and manufacturing to
services and technology—depend on trade
with our two North American neighbors.
They are also the top two export destina-
tions for U.S. small and medium-size busi-
nesses, more than 120,000 of which sell their
goods and services to Canada and Mexico.
The new pact would guarantee that virtually
all U.S. exports enter these markets tariff-
free.
Second, USMCA would modernize North
American trade rules. When the North Amer-
ican Free Trade Agreement was negotiated a
quarter of a century ago, there was no e-
commerce, to give one example; con-
sequently, the agreement did not address
this sector. While USMCA falls short in sev-
eral areas—including in intellectual prop-
erty, which should not be considered a tem-
plate for future agreements—its updated
rules on digital trade, non-tariff barriers,
services, and other areas promise substantial
benefits.
Third, USMCA would restore certainty to
these vital trade relationships. Tariffs and
the threat of tariffs—applied to steel and
aluminum, autos and auto parts, or applied
to pursue non-trade objectives—have im-
posed real costs on the U.S. economy and
dampened investment. Enactment of this
new trade agreement would turn the page on
this chapter and afford the business commu-
nity the confidence it needs to invest and
hire.
Implementation of USMCA would be a
boon to U.S. companies and the workers they
employ as they compete in our top two ex-
port markets. We urge the House to approve
USMCA expeditiously.
Sincerely,
SUZANNE P. CLARK,
President,
U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI, MINORITY LEADER
MCCARTHY, MAJORITY LEADER MCCONNELL
AND MINORITY LEADER SCHUMER: The under-
signed Texas based business leaders and or-
ganizations urge your swift action and sup-
port of the United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement (USMCA). Ratification of
USMCA is critically needed to provide cer-
tainty for the many business sectors in
Texas that rely on trade with Canada and
Mexico, while in turn contributing to the
U.S. economy.
Texas exports more than any other state to
Mexico and is second only behind Michigan
for exports to Canada. More than 950,000
Texas jobs are supported by trade with Mex-
ico and Canada. In 2018, Texas exported more
than $137 billion worth of products to our
North American partners, accounting for 43
percent of Texas’ total exports to the world.
These are staggering numbers that will only
grow with the implementation of USMCA.
According to a recent independent Inter-
national Trade Commission (ITC) report,
USMCA will create more than 176,000 addi-
tional jobs and raise annual U.S. gross do-
mestic product by $68.2 billion. It will in-
crease U.S. exports to Canada by $19.1 billion
and to Mexico by $14.2 billion. It is obvious
USMCA will greatly benefit the Texas econ-
omy by spurring job growth and opening
more trade access.
The manufacturing community in Texas
heavily relies on passage of USMCA. In fact,
Mexico and Canada purchase half of Texas’
total global manufacturing exports. The
Lone Star State’s top exports to Mexico and
Canada are petroleum and coal products,
computer equipment, chemicals, motor vehi-
cle parts, electrical equipment, semiconduc-
tors and electric components, fabricated
metal products, plastics, engine, turbine and
power transmission equipment and food and
beverages. These exports totaled more than
$120 billion in 2018 and are responsible for
more than 114,000 Texas jobs. Passage of
USMCA will help Texas manufacturers be
more competitive and create many more jobs
in Texas and the U.S.
USMCA would also create much needed
certainty for Texas farm and ranch families
who contribute to the economy and feed and
clothe millions worldwide. Over 60,400 Texas
jobs are supported by exporting agricultural
products to Mexico and Canada. The annual
value of Texas’ agricultural exports to our
North American neighbors totals more than
$7.2 billion. USMCA would only build on
these achievements by breaking down exist-
ing trade barriers and opening more market
access for products like beef, dairy, corn,
wheat and pork.
USMCA provides Texas with greater access
to Canada’s dairy, poultry and egg markets.
It would enhance standards for bio-
technology, reduce trade distorting policies,
establish modern sanitary and phytosanitary
standards and more. Combined with other
agricultural provisions in USMCA, the ITC
report estimates U.S. agricultural exports to
Canada and the rest of the world would in-
crease by $2.2 billion.
Through updated automotive rules of ori-
gin, USMCA encourages manufacturing and
economic growth by requiring that 75 per-
cent of auto content be produced in North
America. USMCA also drives higher wages
by mandating 40–45 percent of auto content
be made by workers earning at least $16 per
hour. These improvements will incentivize
billions of dollars in additional U.S. vehicle
and auto parts production while directly
benefiting the Texas automotive industry.
USMCA also includes new provisions to
strengthen and fully enforce environmental
and labor obligations. The agreement re-
quires parties to adopt and maintain in law
and practice labor rights as recognized by
the International Labor Organization. It re-
quires worker representation in collective
bargaining in Mexico, new provisions to take
measures to prohibit the importation of
goods produced by forced labor and to ad-
dress violence against workers exercising
their labor rights. These provisions make
strides in leveling the playing field for Texas
and U.S. workers and businesses.
USMCA also provides a strong framework
to support North American energy trade. It
will bolster North American competitiveness
and help lower our reliance on energy im-
ports from outside the region. It also main-
tains the free flow of energy across borders
in North America through the continued
zero-tariff treatment of U.S. energy exports
to Mexico and Canada.
In addition, the new agreement will enable
U.S. chemical manufacturers to create a
North American model for chemical regula-
tion while leveraging the highly-integrated,
North American supply chain to reduce
costs, boost U.S. exports and inject new
growth and job creation throughout Texas
and the U.S.
Further, Texas pharmaceutical and tech-
nology innovators will enjoy the strongest
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.037 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12257
December 19, 2019
protections for trade secrets contained in
any U.S. trade agreement. USMCA also con-
tains a new digital trade chapter that will
facilitate the cross-border transfer of data
and minimize limitations on where data
must be stored.
As you can tell, passage of USMCA is vital
to Texas and our country. We respectfully
request that you quickly bring USMCA up
for a vote in Congress and support its final
passage. Hardworking Americans are count-
ing on your leadership on this important
issue.
Sincerely,
Texas Farm Bureau; Texas Association of
Business; Accord Irrigation Technologies
LLC; AgTexas Farm Credit Services; Allen/
Fairview Chamber of Commerce; Apartment
Association of Greater Dallas; Association of
Texas Soil and Water Conservation Districts;
Baytown Chamber of Commerce; Bryan/Col-
lege Station Chamber of Commerce.
Cedar Park Chamber of Commerce; Cen-
Tex Hispanic Chamber of Commerce; City of
Coppell; DanHil Containers; Dallas Regional
Chamber; Del Rio Chamber of Commerce;
Denton Chamber of Commerce; DFW Minor-
ity Supplier Development Council, Inc.;
Dumas Chamber of Commerce.
Earth Moving Contractors Association of
Texas; El Paso Chamber of Commerce; El
Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce; Exotic
Wildlife Association; Farm Credit Bank of
Texas; Fort Worth Chamber of Commerce;
Freese & Nichols, Inc.; Frisco Chamber of
Commerce; Global Tooling Specialties, Inc.;
Granbury Chamber of Commerce.
Grand Prairie Chamber of Commerce;
Grapevine Chamber of Commerce; Greater
Arlington Chamber of Commerce; Greater
Austin Chamber of Commerce; Greater Aus-
tin Hispanic Chamber of Commerce; Greater
Dallas Asian American Chamber of Com-
merce; Greater Houston Partnership; Great-
er Irving-Las Colinas Chamber of Commerce;
Greater Killeen Chamber of Commerce.
Greater Port Arthur Chamber of Com-
merce; Houston Hispanic Chamber of Com-
merce; Imperative Information Group; Inde-
pendent Cattlemen’s Association of Texas;
Ingleside Chamber of Commerce; Intelligent
Compensation, LLC; International Bank of
Commerce; Lamesa Area Chamber of Com-
merce; Longview Chamber of Commerce;
Lubbock Chamber of Commerce.
McAllen Chamber of Commerce; McKinney
Chamber of Commerce; Nacogdoches County
Chamber of Commerce; North American
Strategy for Competitiveness; North Dallas
Chamber of Commerce; North San Antonio
Chamber of Commerce; North Texas Com-
mission; Onshore Resources; Plains Cotton
Cooperative Association.
Plains Cotton Growers, Inc.; Plains Land
Bank; Plano Chamber of Commerce; Rich-
ardson Chamber of Commerce; Rio Grande
Valley Hispanic Chamber of Commerce; Rio
Grande Valley Partnership; Rolling Plains
Cotton Growers, Inc.; San Antonio Chamber
of Commerce; San Antonio Hispanic Cham-
ber of Commerce.
Select Milk Producers, Inc.; Sherman
Chamber of Commerce; South Texas Cotton
& Grain Association; South Texans’ Prop-
erty Rights Association; Southern Rolling
Plains Cotton Growers Association; South-
west Council of Agribusiness; State Tax
Group, LLC; Texas Ag Industries.
Texas Agricultural Cooperative Council;
Texas Agricultural Irrigation Association;
Texas Allied Poultry Association; Texas As-
sociation of Dairymen; Texas Association of
Mexican American Chambers of Commerce;
Texas Border Council; Texas Broiler Council;
Texas Business Leadership Council.
Texas Cattle Feeders Association; Texas
Corn Producers Association; Texas Cotton
Ginners’ Association; Texas Egg Council;
Texas Forestry Association; Texas Grain and
Feed Association; Texas Grain Sorghum As-
sociation; Texas Independent Ginners Asso-
ciation; Texas Instruments; Texas Inter-
national Produce Association.
Texas Logging Council; Texas Nursery and
Landscape Association; Texas Pork Pro-
ducers Association; Texas Poultry Federa-
tion; Texas Poultry Improvement Associa-
tion; Texas REALTORS® Texas Rice Council;
Texas Rice Producers Legislative Group;
Texas Seed Trade Association; Texas Sheep
and Goat Raisers Association.
Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers As-
sociation; Texas Soybean Association; Texas
Turkey Federation; Texas Wheat Producers
Association; The Borderplex Alliance; Texas
Border Coalition; United Parcel Service of
America, Inc.; United Corpus Christi Cham-
ber of Commerce; U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce; United States Rice Producers Asso-
ciation.
United States-Mexico Chamber of Com-
merce; United States-Mexico Chamber of
Commerce Houston Chapter; United States-
Mexico Chamber of Commerce Southwest
Chapter; Visit Fort Worth; Vocational Agri-
culture Teachers Association of Texas; West-
ern Equipment Dealers Association; Western
Peanut Growers Association.
DECEMBER 18, 2019.
DEAR MEMBER OF CONGRESS: On behalf of
the CEO members of Business Roundtable, I
urge you to vote in favor of H.R. 5430, the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementation Act. Over 12 million Amer-
ican jobs depend on the $1.4 trillion in trade
with Canada and Mexico. Passing USMCA
will modernize a 25-year old agreement with
our neighbors and preserve and strengthen
the North American economy.
USMCA includes many gold-standard pro-
visions, further opens markets and sets
standards that will benefit workers, busi-
nesses and farmers across broad industry
sectors. USMCA, once in effect, will promote
the digital economy and trade, remove key
barriers to goods and services trade, promote
the free flow of data for all sectors, enhance
trade facilitation and e-commerce, and sup-
port small businesses by cutting red tape.
No trade agreement is perfect, and we do
not support every individual provision in
USMCA. Future agreements should include
stronger intellectual property protections
for life-saving innovations and technologies.
Nevertheless, we strongly believe that
USMCA, in its totality, will support U.S.
economic growth, jobs, and innovation.
Business Roundtable appreciates the bipar-
tisan efforts in Congress to ensure that all
USMCA commitments will be fully enforce-
able, and we will work with Congress and the
Administration through USMCA implemen-
tation to boost North American competitive-
ness.
Passing USMCA with broad bipartisan sup-
port will also deepen support for trade poli-
cies that help Americans compete at home
and abroad. We urge you to vote Yes on
USMCA.
Sincerely,
TOM LINEBARGER,
Chairman and Chief Executive Office,
Cummins Inc. Chair, Trade and Inter-
national Committee Business Roundtable.
ITI,
PROMOTING INNOVATION WORLDWIDE,
Washington, DC, December 18, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Republican Leader,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADER MCCAR-
THY: On behalf of the members of the Infor-
mation Technology Industry Council (ITI), I
write to express our strong support for legis-
lation implementing the U.S.-Mexico-Canada
Agreement (H.R. 5430). Given the importance
of this agreement to the technology sector,
we will consider scoring votes in support of
final passage in our 116th Congressional Vot-
ing Guide.
The U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement
(USMCA) represents a landmark improve-
ment in our relationships with some of our
most important trading partners from the
perspective of the tech sector, and a key step
forward for U.S. leadership in innovation and
digital trade. Notably, the U.S.-Mexico-Can-
ada Agreement contains first-of-its-kind,
cutting-edge digital trade provisions that
recognize the reality of the 21st century
economy and would boost the U.S. economy
and its competitiveness around the world.
American companies of all sizes and across
all industries leverage technology, and can
expect to benefit from the USMCA’s digital
trade and other tech-focused provisions.
These provisions will promote the seamless
flow of data across borders, allow companies
to store data where it makes the most sense
from the perspective of their business and
customers, prevent costly tariffs and taxes
on technology products and services, safe-
guard source code and algorithms by prohib-
iting requirements that companies divulge
them as a condition of doing business, pro-
mote acceptance of U.S.-developed inter-
national standards, and create consistency
in testing and certification procedures for
tech goods.
We applaud the work and leadership that
has gone into securing the opportunity to
move forward with ratification of the
USMCA, and urge you and your colleagues to
support the implementing legislation for the
agreement when it comes to the House floor.
Sincerely,
JASON D. OXMAN,
President and CEO.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Ken-
tucky (Mr. COMER).
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, ever
since President Trump struck a new,
pro-American trade agreement with
Canada and Mexico over a year ago, he
has worked tirelessly with Members of
both parties to get to the point of pass-
ing the USMCA through Congress.
Make no mistake about it: The Presi-
dent’s leadership on this issue has put
us on the brink of this tremendous ac-
complishment. Today, we will pass a
new trade deal that will create jobs,
grow our economy, and help our farm-
ers.
Having strongly advocated for the
passage of this deal, I am proud to ex-
press my strong support for USMCA
and all the opportunities it will pro-
vide.
Kentucky will strongly benefit from
USMCA. Estimates show that our
State, alone, will see over $260 million
more in agriculture exports to Canada
and Mexico. New trade markets, more
stability for our farmers and manufac-
turers, and more accountability from
our trading partners will help our peo-
ple and grow our entire economy.
As a farmer and Kentucky’s former
commissioner of agriculture, I know
firsthand the need for our country to
establish new markets for our farmers.
I am proud to be a strong voice for the
agriculture community and represent
their interests in Washington.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.045 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12258 December 19, 2019
This is a great day for our farmers,
for Kentucky, and for all of America.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, this is
really a happy moment for me to ac-
knowledge the work that the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. GOMEZ) did
on behalf of labor rights. He stood up
in the working group on behalf of the
working people, and I think that he
considerably shifted this argument in
their direction.
Madam Speaker, I yield 11⁄2 minutes
to the gentleman from California (Mr.
GOMEZ).
(Mr. GOMEZ asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GOMEZ. Madam Speaker, I in-
clude in the RECORD a letter to the
United States Trade Representative.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
September 17, 2019.
Hon. ROBERT E. LIGHTHIZER,
U.S. Trade Representative,
Washington, DC.
DEAR AMBASSADOR LIGHTHIZER: We write to
express our concern regarding the inclusion
of Article 20.89 in the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement (USMCA). This provision,
entitled ‘‘Legal Remedies and Safe Harbors,’’
mirrors Section 512 of Title 17, originally en-
acted by the Digital Millennium Copyright
Act of 1998 (DMCA). In certain cir-
cumstances, Section 512 frees online plat-
forms from liability for infringing content
posted by third parties.
The effects of Section 512 and the appro-
priate role of a copyright safe harbor have
become the subject of much attention in re-
cent year. Some have called on Congress to
update these very provisions, enacted in the
days of a dial-up Internet. The U.S. Copy-
right Office is expected to produce a report
on Section 512 around the end of this year,
the result of a multi-year process that start-
ed in 2015. Moreover, the European Union has
recently issued a copyright directive that in-
cludes reforms to its analogous safe harbor
for online platforms, which may have an im-
pact on the U.S. domestic policy debate.
Without taking a position on that debate
in this letter, we find it problematic for the
United States to export language mirroring
this provision while such serious policy dis-
cussions are ongoing. For that reason, we do
not believe a provision requiring parties to
adopt a Section 512-style safe harbor system
of the type mandated by Article 20.89 should
continue to be included in future trade
agreements. Given that the Judiciary Com-
mittee closely oversees Section 512 through
its jurisdiction over intellectual property
laws, we also hope that the Office of the
United States Trade Representative will
work closely with our Committee in advance
of negotiating copyright issues going for-
ward.
Thank you for your attention to this im-
portant matter. We would be pleased to dis-
cuss this issue with you at your convenience.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
DOUG COLLINS,
Ranking Member.
Mr. GOMEZ. Madam Speaker, the
original NAFTA was a failure for work-
ing families, and the NAFTA 2.0 deal
that President Trump signed in 2018
was not much better. House Democrats
recognized that, and we rejected it, and
we worked until we got an enforceable
deal.
As a result, the final revised USMCA
is much better than NAFTA 1.0, and it
is even better than NAFTA 2.0. And, I
would say, you can’t even call it
‘‘NAFTA Lite’’ anymore.
Despite our work, even with the im-
provements that we have made, I know
that this won’t bring back all the jobs
that we have lost here in the United
States; but, over time, I hope the new
labor standards and the enhanced en-
forcement mechanisms we negotiated
will help raise wages in Mexico, reduc-
ing U.S. corporations’ incentive to
outsource jobs.
No trade agreement or legislation is
perfect, and I do not endorse every sin-
gle provision of USMCA, but I know
that it is always easier to talk about a
problem than to fix a problem.
When we proceed on this issue, future
trade agreements must recognize that
trade and globalization have pushed
wages down and weakened the negotia-
tion power of workers. This is where
our focus must be.
One provision I am proud of is in
labor, and that is, specifically, a new
rapid-response mechanism to enforce
labor standards.
This has never been written into an
American trade agreement. By ensur-
ing Mexican workers’ rights are pro-
tected, we prevent a race to the bot-
tom. For the first time ever, we have
an enforceable labor standard in a
trade agreement.
I thank everybody who worked on
this and made sure that we are moving
in the right direction.
Madam Speaker, I rise to thank Speaker
Pelosi for appointing me to the Working Group
tasked with renegotiating USMCA on behalf of
the Democratic Caucus.
I also thank my colleagues on the Working
Group, Representatives Richard Neal, Earl
Blumenauer, Jan Schakowsky, Mike Thomp-
son, Suzanne Bonamici, John Larson, Terri
Sewell, and Rosa Delauro.
Additionally, I wish to recognize the efforts
of the Ways and Means trade staff and per-
sonal office staff who contributed. Their names
are Laura Thrift, Osaremen Okolo, Syd Terry,
Jack Spasiano, Robert Nuttall, Allison Smith,
Scott Stephanou, Jennifer Goedke, Samuel
Negatu, Keigan Mull, Julia Friedman, Kath-
erine White, Katherine Linton, Alexandra Whit-
taker, John Catalfamo, Katherine Monge and
Katherine Tai.
Finally, I wish to thank Ambassador Robert
Lighthizer, Ambassador C.J. Mahoney, and
the rest of the professional staff at the Office
of the U.S. Trade Representative for their
faithful engagement with House Democrats.
b 1215
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from Mis-
souri (Mrs. WAGNER).
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Texas for
yielding. I rise today to urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on the USMCA
trade agreement.
For months, partisan politics and the
Democrats’ impeachment charade have
prevented us from finalizing this agree-
ment, but it is clear to Members on
both sides of the aisle that the Presi-
dent has negotiated a deal that will
strengthen our economy and benefit all
Missourians and Americans.
One of every three rows of crops is
grown for export in the great State of
Missouri, and this deal expands market
access in Canada and Mexico for our
farmers.
It is the first time that a U.S. trade
agreement is specifically addressing
biotech, and the St. Louis region is the
Silicon Valley for ag-tech.
USMCA also includes the Wagner
language on human trafficking. I
worked with Ambassador Lighthizer to
guarantee that the USMCA holds my
Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act,
FOSTA, to help stop online sex traf-
ficking here at home and now through-
out North America.
A ‘‘yes’’ on the USMCA is a yes for
victims, a yes for jobs, a yes for farm-
ers, and a yes for the prosperity of all
Americans.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to urge my
colleagues to vote YES on the USMCA trade
agreement. For months, partisan politics and
the Democrats’ impeachment charade have
prevented us from finalizing this agreement.
But it is clear to members on both sides of the
aisle that the President has negotiated a deal
that will strengthen our economy and benefit
all Missourians.
One of every three rows of crops is grown
for exports in the great state of Missouri, and
this deal expands market access in Canada
and Mexico for our farmers.
The USMCA also includes the ‘‘Wagner
Language’’ on human trafficking. I worked with
Ambassador Lighthizer to guarantee that the
USMCA upholds my Fight Online Sex Traf-
ficking Act (FOSTA) to help stop online sex
trafficking here at home and now throughout
North America.
A YES on the USMCA is a yes for victims,
a yes for jobs, a yes for farmers, and a yes
for the prosperity of all Americans. Thank you.
I yield back.
This agreement also benefits Missouri’s
thriving ag tech community by addressing agri-
cultural biotechnology, including new tech-
nologies such as gene editing.
This is the first time U.S. trade agreement is
specifically addressing biotech, and the St.
Louis region is the Silicon Valley for ag tech.
The USMCA will help protect our intellectual
property, and I hope it will be a standard for
future trade agreements as well.
The Wagner Language allows our trading
partners to enact domestic laws that enable
victims to sue the websites that facilitate the
sex trade and empower law enforcement to
enforce criminal laws against the websites that
sell women and children.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI), an important
advocate of environmental issues as a
member of the Trade Working Group.
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Speaker, I
rise in support of the updated United
States-Mexico-Canada trade agree-
ment.
In the years that followed NAFTA’S
enactment in 1994, American jobs were
outsourced to Mexico, and the wages
and working conditions were not im-
proved for Mexican workers. This
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:40 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12259
December 19, 2019
agreement, while not perfect, is an im-
portant opportunity to fix the damage
from NAFTA and to create a new base-
line for future trade agreements.
The renegotiated USMCA strength-
ens labor rules so that it will be easier
to prove violations. It includes robust
monitoring systems and strong en-
forcement tools, including people on
the ground in Mexico to monitor com-
pliance.
Importantly, the updated USMCA no
longer includes harmful provisions that
would have locked in high drug prices
and made it more difficult for patients
to access affordable generic drugs.
This final agreement also makes im-
portant advancements to protect our
environment. It improves environ-
mental rules, puts them in the text of
the agreement, provides a path to re-
ducing hydrofluorocarbon emissions,
protects against overfishing, makes it
easier to prove environmental viola-
tions, and secures more than $600 mil-
lion to implement the environmental
provisions and address pollution and
marine debris.
Throughout the negotiation process,
I fought hard for the inclusion of
strong climate provisions. I am dis-
appointed that the Trump administra-
tion rejected our efforts. We did, how-
ever, include a clause that creates a
path for adding additional environ-
mental and conservation agreements in
the future. I will continue to do all I
can to pass and implement bold poli-
cies to combat climate change.
The USMCA is significantly better
than the agreement that the Trump ad-
ministration brought to us. It is a
major improvement over the NAFTA
rules that are currently in place. It
will bring more certainty to workers,
to Oregonians, and for the environ-
ment.
I thank Speaker PELOSI for appoint-
ing me to the working group and the
hardworking staff that got us to today.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. CONAWAY), who has been a long-
time leader in agriculture, on the farm
bill, and frankly, we couldn’t have got-
ten this agreement done without him.
Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, I
appreciate my colleague from Texas for
yielding. I am certainly glad this day
has finally arrived and to stand with
American farmers by passing the
USMCA.
For the last year, Democrats ob-
sessed over a partisan impeachment
process while President Trump re-
mained focused on securing the wins
that American farmers were counting
on.
For our farm families, passing
USMCA means an annual increase of
$2.2 billion in agriculture exports. It
also means we gain about 176,000 qual-
ity jobs for Americans. The USMCA
resets our trading relationships with
Mexico and Canada, improves our farm-
ers’ market access to these two impor-
tant trading partners, and strips away
nontariff barriers that prevent free and
fair trade.
I commend President Trump, Ambas-
sador Lighthizer, and Ambassador
Doud for their tireless work on this
agreement, in all its stages. Our farm-
ers and ranchers were counting on
them, and they delivered.
The near-universal support in the ag-
ricultural community for USMCA
speaks volumes about the importance
of this trade deal. I urge my colleagues
to join me in supporting America’s
farmers and ranchers by voting to pass
the USMCA.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY), a formi-
dable negotiator and a very important
member of the Trade Working Group.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I rise in support of the U.S.-Mexico-
Canada trade agreement, the first
trade agreement I have ever voted for
in my more than 20 years in Congress.
I am proud to be on the working
group that helped negotiate this agree-
ment, and I thank the chairman of that
group, RICHIE NEAL.
It is far better than the original
NAFTA, and it is far better than the
deeply flawed trade agreement that
President Trump handed to us.
For example, he tried to tuck into it
a huge gift to Big Pharma that would
have raised the cost of medicine
throughout our hemisphere. But from
day one, I insisted that that provision
be removed. Today, it is gone.
Without the work of the working
group, without the help of the Speaker
of the House, without Rich Trumka,
the president of the AFL–CIO, we
would not be voting on this today.
Is it a perfect thing? No, it is not.
For example, there is a big gift to Big
Tech provided in this called section 230,
which gives a liability shield for all the
companies and the platforms, for all
the content that they have on those
platforms.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD a letter to Ambassador
Lighthizer.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE,
Washington, DC, August 6, 2019.
Hon. ROBERT E. LIGHTHIZER,
U.S. Trade Representative,
Washington, DC.
DEAR AMBASSADOR LIGHTHIZER: We write to
express our concern regarding the inclusion
of Article 19.17 in the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement (USMCA).
In many respects, the language of Article
19.17 mirrors that of Section 230 of the Com-
munications Decency Act. Section 230
shields online platforms from some of the li-
ability associated with third-party content
posted on those platforms.
As you may know, the effects of Section
230 and the appropriate role of such a liabil-
ity shield have become the subject of much
debate in recent years. While we take no
view on that debate in this letter, we find it
inappropriate for the United States to export
language mirroring Section 230 while such
serious policy discussions are ongoing. For
that reason, we do not believe any provision
regarding intermediary liability protections
of the type created by Article 19.17 are ripe
for inclusion in any trade deal going forward.
Given that our Committee closely oversees
Section 230 and all portions of the Tele-
communications Act of 1996, we also hope in
the future the Office of the United States
Trade Representative will consult our com-
mittee in advance of negotiating on these
issues.
Thank you for your attention to this im-
portant matter.
Sincerely,
FRANK PALLONE,
Chairman.
GREG WALDEN,
Ranking Member.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I urge everyone to vote for the trade
agreement.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. BALDERSON).
Mr. BALDERSON. Madam Speaker, I
thank Mr. BRADY for yielding. I rise
this afternoon with enthusiasm for a
bipartisan agreement, the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, or
USMCA.
This trade deal between our country
and our top two trading partners will
be a major win for the Buckeye State.
Ohio farmers and manufacturers al-
ready export nearly $28 billion worth of
goods to Canada and Mexico every
year. The USMCA opens up Canada’s
market to American poultry and dairy
so that Ohio farmers can now trade
these products across international
lines.
In this digital era, many people’s
shopping is increasingly done online.
People can shop small businesses and
larger companies alike, especially dur-
ing the holiday gifting season. USMCA
brings an outdated trade agreement
into the 21st century with a previously
nonexistent section on digital trade.
USMCA is what our country needs
now, and I am thrilled to support this
bipartisan agreement’s passage. I
thank Chairman NEAL and Ranking
Member BRADY.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Connecticut (Ms. DELAURO), a formi-
dable negotiator, a great friend, and, I
must say, an invaluable member of the
working group that helped assemble
this document.
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, I
was honored to be appointed to the
Speaker’s working group charged with
renegotiating the deeply flawed
NAFTA agreement that the President
signed in 2018. It enshrined the failed
status quo that had hurt American
workers while extending monopoly pro-
tections for pharmaceutical companies
that would lock in high medicine
prices.
I was focused on crafting effective
and meaningful standards to protect
labor rights, constructing an enforce-
ment mechanism for the U.S. and Mex-
ico, strengthening and protecting envi-
ronmental standards, and protecting
access to affordable medicines.
I was pleased the principles we pre-
sented to and, in many instances,
forced on the USTR are reflected in the
final agreement. Our gains include a
labor-specific enforcement mechanism
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.042 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12260 December 19, 2019
for new labor standards, a review body
to ensure Mexico is meeting its obliga-
tions, penalties for goods and services
not produced in compliance, and robust
resources for monitoring and enforce-
ment.
Despite the President’s rhetoric, this
agreement will not bring back U.S.
manufacturing jobs or undo the dam-
age of outsourcing provisions in the
Republican tax law. Despite our best
efforts, it lacks more robust climate
standards, labor and environmental
terms, and protections for food and
product safety. So, it is not the model
for the future.
Wage stagnation in America is not
the inevitable result of globalization
and technology. Special interests have
shaped government policies that have
held down wages and increased inequal-
ity.
Nobel-winning economist Joseph
Stiglitz said: ‘‘Inequality is not inevi-
table. It is a choice we make.’’
We made progress on this agreement.
It is a framework to build on. I support
the agreement and pledge to continue
our work addressing globalization and
trade policy.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. THOMPSON).
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, after nearly 400 days
since President Trump signed the
agreement, we are finally voting on
USMCA to deliver real results for the
people who make up the backbone of
the American economy. This includes
our farmers, ranchers, manufacturers,
and each and every American family
who depends on these industries.
USMCA will bring more than $68 bil-
lion in new economic activity, 176,000
new jobs here at home, and an increase
of $2 billion a year annually in agricul-
tural exports. These numbers don’t lie,
and that is only the beginning. Passing
USMCA is a big win for the American
economy.
Lastly, I can’t talk about USMCA
without mentioning how big of a win it
is for American agriculture, particu-
larly our dairy farmers. Under this
agreement, our dairy producers will no
longer be subject to Canada’s class 6
and class 7 milk pricing programs, poli-
cies that have unfairly limited our ex-
port potential for years.
Madam Speaker, USMCA is a good
agreement. It is a fair agreement, and
it is a bipartisan agreement. I am
pleased that we are finally voting on
this crucial piece of policy and that we
can deliver on this promise. I urge my
colleagues to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. CUELLAR), a real champion of this
agreement.
Mr. CUELLAR. Madam Speaker, I
support the USMCA, NAFTA 2.1, be-
cause we are doing this in a bipartisan
way.
I thank Speaker PELOSI and the
working group and Chairman NEAL and
his staff for working so hard; my Texas
colleague KEVIN BRADY and his staff for
working so hard; Ambassador
Lighthizer and our friends to the south,
the Mexicans, for working together.
My district is the epicenter of trade
between the U.S. and Mexico. My city
of Laredo handles 14,000 to 16,000 trail-
ers every single day. The Laredo cus-
toms district handles 60 percent of all
the trade between the U.S. and Mexico.
That means more than $1.7 billion of
goods flow between the U.S. and Mex-
ico every day. That is over $1 million
every single minute. Trade is good. It
means jobs, jobs, jobs.
I thank the committee for adding the
signature environmental safeguard, the
North American Development Bank.
That is total, with the EPA, over $500
million for drinking water and for
waste treatment plants.
Members, pass USMCA. It means one
thing: jobs, jobs, jobs.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. KUSTOFF), the State that
helped win Texas’ independence.
Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, I thank Ranking Member
BRADY for yielding. I thank Ranking
Member BRADY and Chairman NEAL for
their hard work on this agreement.
We know that the U.S.-Mexico-Can-
ada Agreement is vital to our Nation’s
economy and my home State of Ten-
nessee. Over 200,000 jobs in Tennessee
depend on the passage of USMCA, and
that includes about 35,000 manufac-
turing jobs and 10,000 west Tennessee
farm operations.
Madam Speaker, the Volunteer State
produces almost $14 billion in exports
to Canada and Mexico. More impor-
tantly, the USMCA updates the 25-
year-old trade agreement that we know
as NAFTA and modernizes the eco-
nomic partnership of North America.
Frankly, the USMCA will allow Ten-
nessee and our Nation as a whole to
achieve greater prosperity.
I thank President Trump for deliv-
ering on his promises and creating a
better trade agreement for the Amer-
ican people.
b 1230
Madam Speaker, I look forward to
voting ‘‘yes’’ on the USMCA, and I urge
all my colleagues to do so as well.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Okla-
homa (Ms. KENDRA S. HORN), a real
champion of agriculture and small
business.
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman
NEAL for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in
strong support of the passage of the
United States-Mexico-Canada trade
agreement.
I am proud to support this bipartisan
agreement that strengthens trade and
is good for both economic growth op-
portunities and for our workers.
A stronger trading relationship with
Mexico and Canada is good for a
stronger economy for Oklahoma. These
two countries are already the Sooner
State’s largest trading partners, ac-
counting for $2.4 billion in Oklahoma
exports in the last year alone.
This newly-agreed-to USMCA is a
monumental step in strengthening this
trading relationship. This agreement
not only ensures fair trade for Okla-
homa businesses and workers—who
continue to create world-class prod-
ucts—by guaranteeing that exports
that enter Canada and Mexico are all
tariff-free, but it also gives Congress
the necessary tools of enforcement to
combat the high cost of prescription
drugs and is good for our workers.
This strongly improves labor stand-
ards, as well as allowing workers to
compete on a level playing field.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this USMCA and
other bipartisan solutions.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. MITCHELL), a gentleman who
was pro trade and pro USMCA the mo-
ment that he hit Congress.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
thank Mr. BRADY for being such a lead-
er on this.
I saw the impact of NAFTA on my
State of Michigan, on my community,
and my family. Jobs disappeared at an
astounding rate, including my dad’s job
working an assembly line at an auto
plant. I saw the unfair treatment of
farmers trying to export their prod-
ucts.
I live in a district with a major bor-
der crossing to Canada, the Blue Water
Bridge. So I also saw the importance of
trade with our neighbors. But trade
must be fair, balanced, and not dis-
advantage hardworking American fam-
ilies.
NAFTA failed miserably at that.
USMCA is a massive improvement
over NAFTA in more ways than time
allows me to detail.
America needs the USMCA. We need
it now. So let’s finish this drawn-out
process, pass the bill, and urge the Sen-
ate to proceed with speed.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Arizona
(Mr. STANTON).
Mr. STANTON. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Passing the U.S.-Mexico-Canada
Agreement is essential to creating new
jobs and strengthening the economy of
my home State of Arizona.
Those of us in border States under-
stand the value of trading with our
neighbors, and I can tell you, growing
trade relationships with Mexico and
Canada is essential to Arizona. This
new agreement will offer a big lift to
our local companies.
Already in Arizona, nearly 230,000
jobs rely on across-the-border com-
merce. That means 230,000 paychecks
buying holiday gifts, 230,000 paychecks
putting food on the table for their fam-
ilies, and 230,000 paychecks contrib-
uting to our State’s economy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.043 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12261
December 19, 2019
Today we have a real opportunity for
job creators, from multi-national com-
panies, to mid-size and small busi-
nesses, from tech workers to farm-
workers. There is no doubt that the
new USMCA is a win for all Arizonans.
This is a bipartisan agreement. It
sets a new standard for creating trade
rules that are enforceable, good for
American workers, and effectively con-
sider how business is done in the 21st
century.
Importantly, it reasserts Congress’
role in trade policy.
Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman
NEAL and the trade working group for
their hard work in getting this deal
done.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. HURD), whose district has a long
border with Mexico and who was deeply
engaged in the negotiating rounds with
Mexico, Canada, and the U.S., my
friend from San Antonio.
Mr. HURD of Texas. Madam Speaker,
why should all Americans care about
free trade with Mexico and Canada?
We should care about the USMCA be-
cause just about every aspect of our
lives, the food on our table, the clothes
on our backs, the fuel in our cars, de-
pends on free trade with Mexico and
Canada.
We should care about USMCA be-
cause 14 million jobs across the Nation,
including the jobs of over half of my
constituents in south Texas, depend on
free trade with Mexico and Canada.
We should care about USMCA be-
cause we live in a world where U.S.
military and economic dominance is no
longer guaranteed, and a strong North
America is essential for us to remain
competitive as China tries to replace
America as the most important econ-
omy in the world.
So let’s get the USMCA to the Presi-
dent’s desk so we can start talking
about increasing North American com-
petitiveness in the rest of the world.
I support this bill.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Vir-
ginia (Ms. SPANBERGER), a courageous
congresswoman.
Ms. SPANBERGER. Madam Speaker,
I thank Chairman NEAL for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 5430.
Last year, Virginia exported $4.3 bil-
lion worth of goods to Canada and Mex-
ico. One out of six Virginia manufac-
turers exports to these two countries,
and of these firms, 64 percent are
small- or medium-sized businesses.
These businesses are the backbone of
our economy, and today they are look-
ing to Congress to take this vital step
towards securing long-term trade sta-
bility.
Earlier this month, I made that point
clear at a meeting with the vice presi-
dent. During our discussion, I under-
scored the USMCA’s potential to stim-
ulate growth across the Seventh Dis-
trict of Virginia.
For central Virginia businesses, to-
day’s vote is a welcome step forward
towards modernizing NAFTA and stay-
ing competitive in the 21st century.
For Virginia’s crop and livestock pro-
ducers, today’s vote means protecting
and expanding relationships with crit-
ical buyers in Canada and Mexico.
And for central Virginia’s workers,
today’s vote carries with it a commit-
ment from our trading partners to live
up to their labor commitments.
I know that central Virginia’s econ-
omy and the hardworking men and
women who spur it forward have wait-
ed patiently for this day to arrive.
Madam Speaker, I thank everyone
for their work on this: Mr. Chairman,
Mr. Ranking Member, Ambassador
Lighthizer, and my colleagues on the
working group.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support USMCA.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER).
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker,
this week represented the best of times
and the worst of times.
Yesterday displayed the worst of
times by impeaching the President for
political reasons and reversing the will
of 63 million Americans.
Today, however, represents the best
of times by finally voting to approve
the USMCA.
This historic agreement, which has
been held up by Speaker PELOSI for
over a year, will bring 176,000 new jobs
and spur $68 billion in new economic
activity. It removes trade barriers for
our ag products, creating new markets
for our farmers and helping rural
America as a result.
Encouragingly, the auto industry
will benefit as well. Just last week,
General Motors announced that it
would be investing over $1 billion in a
truck plant in my home State of Mis-
souri due to the USMCA.
This agreement moves our relation-
ship with Mexico and Canada into the
21st century, and will benefit the
American farmer, the American work-
er, and the American consumer.
I applaud President Trump for deliv-
ering on this historic trade agreement.
I look forward to voting ‘‘yes’’ on the
USMCA and bringing more jobs to our
great country.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GONZALEZ).
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to express my
support for the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement and also to sound
the alarm of an issue that should con-
cern us all: violence.
To put things in perspective, since
2006, Mexico has lost as many people to
homicide as the United States has lost
in every war since Korea.
Just in the last 3 years, the number
of homicides exceeded the number of
soldiers lost in Korea and Vietnam
combined, all while we act as if noth-
ing is happening in our own backyard.
Negotiators worked tirelessly to get
us here to today’s vote, but they failed
to acknowledge the single greatest
threat to North American trade and
prosperity: violence.
I rise today to say that we have
missed an opportunity, and I cannot be
silent and will not let this go.
Mexican President Lopez Obrador ran
on a promise to achieve peace, end the
war on drugs, and create a new civilian
national guard to tackle organized
crime by fighting poverty.
While I have no doubt of his good in-
tentions, he has failed miserably. Mexi-
co’s crime rate continues to rise; the
endemic mass murders, disappearances,
extortions, and assaults in Mexico
show no signs of slowing.
Madam Speaker, by accepting this as
the status quo and staying silent, we
risk standing in the way of our own
economic success.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Iowa
(Mr. KING), a champion of agriculture.
Mr. KING of Iowa. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
BRADY), the ranking member of the
Ways and Means Committee, and per-
haps one of the most successful in mod-
ern time.
I am looking at this USMCA trade
agreement. I said from the beginning
that I would not have opened up
NAFTA; it was good for Iowa agri-
culture, it was good for Iowa manufac-
turing, it was good for America in
many areas. But the President prom-
ised that he would open it up and that
he would prevail in his negotiations.
He has followed through and he has
kept his word.
For a year and a half I have been
having discussions with every entity
that I can find that has been affected
by this trade agreement. They all say,
We are better off. They might say, We
are marginally better off, but they say,
We are better off, until you get to
dairy, where we are a lot, lot better off
than we were in the past.
This is a terrific trade agreement.
Whatever the nuances were after-
wards where there were some changes
that didn’t affect, I don’t think, the
district that I represent, what this
amounts to is this: It is a huge victory
for the President of the United States,
for Americans everywhere, for Iowans
in the Fourth Congressional District,
which is the number one agriculture
producing district in all of America.
We are happy. We are delighted. We
are thankful to have this Christmas
present coming to us.
We say, Merry Christmas, Mr. Presi-
dent; Merry Christmas, America.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. ALLRED), a courageous congress-
man.
Mr. ALLRED. Madam Speaker, I rise
to applaud the work of my colleagues
in both parties on reaching a bipar-
tisan consensus on a trade agreement
between the U.S., Mexico, and Canada.
I know that this was no easy task,
and today we are poised to pass this
historic agreement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.045 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12262 December 19, 2019
This was a priority for me, and I
worked tirelessly to ensure that the
administration, my colleagues, and
House leaders knew how important this
was for Texas.
For Texans, trade with Mexico and
Canada isn’t just a textbook exercise
or abstract policy issue; it is real jobs
for more than 36,000 Texans in my dis-
trict.
Businesses across north Texas rely
on supply chains between our three na-
tions to manufacture, distribute, and
sell goods and services. We must give
them certainty and stability.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes.’’ This job-cre-
ating agreement will shift the trade
paradigm and create a new standard for
trade that will protect workers and the
environment both here at home and
across the North American continent.
Madam Speaker, I thank Chairman
NEAL and the working group and Am-
bassador Lighthizer for their work on
getting this across the line.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. HUIZENGA), a leader of ag and
autos.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Madam Speaker, I
rise in strong support of the United
States-Mexico-Canada trade agreement
negotiated by President Trump and his
team, as well as the strong leadership
here in the House.
For more than a year, I have called
on Speaker PELOSI to have this vote on
this trade agreement. I am glad the
day has arrived.
The stakes for Michigan are ex-
tremely high. One estimate is 38.9 per-
cent of Michigan’s total GDP depends
on trade, the highest in the Nation. A
staggering 65 percent of the State’s ex-
ports are bound for Canada and Mexico.
Trade with our Nation’s neighbors
support more than 338,000 Michigan
jobs.
Ratifying the USMCA will lead to
more than $30 billion in investment in
new automotive manufacturing in the
U.S. and create more than 75,000 jobs
for American auto workers.
Passing the USMCA is also vitally
important to our agricultural commu-
nity. Michigan’s food and agricultural
exports total approximately $1.98 bil-
lion annually and support roughly
805,000 food and agricultural jobs.
This agreement will level the playing
field for our farmers, growers, and pro-
ducers, and expand market access for
commodities such as dairy goods, poul-
try, and eggs.
This is a win for Michigan workers,
farmers, and job creators, and I support
this bill.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Min-
nesota (Ms. CRAIG), who I can assure
everybody was an assertive advocate
for this agreement.
b 1245
Ms. CRAIG. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of USMCA.
This trade agreement is a win for
Minnesota’s family farmers and small
business owners. It protects American
workers and creates certainty and new
opportunity moving forward with our
largest trading partners.
I have walked on farms across my
district with the families who feed,
clothe, and fuel this country. One thing
is clear: Years of tough prices, severe
weather, and trade issues have taken
their toll. They need this trade agree-
ment now.
I am proud to have worked to elimi-
nate the handouts to Big Pharma from
the original draft. My commitment is
to work with this administration when
it benefits our community and stand
up to them when it doesn’t.
This is a good deal for American
farmers, workers, and businesses. I
urge my colleagues to vote in favor of
this important trade agreement.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr.
DESJARLAIS).
Mr. DESJARLAIS. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to support the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement that
will replace the outdated North Amer-
ican Free Trade Agreement.
USMCA opens new markets for
American agriculture in Canada, re-
turns manufacturing jobs outsourced
to Mexico to our own country, and is
the first U.S. trade deal to focus on
cross-border commerce for small busi-
nesses, easing rules and regulations to
level the playing field for startups and
entrepreneurs.
Our economy is already strong. Jobs
and income are growing, especially for
working and middle-class Americans.
My home State of Tennessee is a manu-
facturing and transportation hub, and
small business jobs and wage growth
there lead the Nation. The USMCA will
further strengthen our economy.
However, the President’s opposition,
who just yesterday voted to impeach
him, have for years obstructed the
agenda my constituents, as well as
Democrats and Republicans around the
country, supported in 2016.
We have succeeded, despite unrelent-
ing resistance. Donald Trump has
shown courage and determination that
has resulted in a pending trade deal
with China. Combined with tax cuts,
reduced regulations, and American en-
ergy independence, these trade deals
and others the President has produced
will continue our remarkable economic
progress, as well as strengthen na-
tional security.
I am proud to support the USMCA for
Tennessee farmers, manufacturers, and
small businesses.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. STEVENS), a ferocious
advocate.
Ms. STEVENS. Madam Speaker,
today, we rise to pass a trade deal for
the middle class. Today, we rise to
strengthen the protections for the
workers. Today is a great day, for
today, we are standing up for our man-
ufacturers and our manufacturing
economy.
To all the suppliers in my district
who advocated, who reached out, who
asked for the certainty for their work-
force, for the investment, today, we are
getting something done for you. We do
not say Republican or Democrat, but
we say manufacturing. We say hoorah
for the middle class, for the growth and
the expansion for our middle class.
We came here to champion our manu-
facturing economy. We came here to
get something done, to reach a com-
promise, to shed the awful effects of
the original NAFTA, and to deliver yet
again for people. That is what we are
here for in our majority.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Washington (Mr.
NEWHOUSE).
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker,
today has been a long time coming for
President Trump, the American people,
and the American farmers and ranch-
ers.
Our vote today ensures that we de-
liver on our promise to bring fair and
equitable trade with our closest trad-
ing partners, Mexico and Canada.
In my home State of Washington, ex-
ports to Canada and Mexico totaled
$11.3 billion in 2018, and trade-related
jobs amount to nearly 40 percent of all
jobs in the State.
I have heard from farmers, ranchers,
and manufacturers in every county of
central Washington. They all agree
that today’s vote to pass USMCA is ex-
actly what we need.
Most importantly, USMCA maintains
duty-free access for U.S. agriculture
products, including the iconic Wash-
ington State apple, which accounts for
nearly $450 million in exports annually.
The USMCA goes even further to ad-
vance access for the U.S. dairy and
wine industries, two substantial driv-
ers for Washington’s economy.
Madam Speaker, I am proud today
that we are delivering USMCA for my
constituents.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the very capable gentle-
woman from New Mexico (Ms. TORRES
SMALL), who once even followed me
into the coffee shop to advocate on be-
half of this agreement.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Madam Speaker, I thank President
Trump, congressional leadership,
Chairman NEAL, Ranking Member
BRADY, and members of the USMCA
working group for fighting to make
significant improvements to the out-
of-date NAFTA agreement.
This is a win for New Mexico’s work-
ers, small businesses, agricultural pro-
ducers, and our economy as a whole.
In my conversations with constitu-
ents from across southern New Mexico,
I have seen just why NAFTA is out of
date and why USMCA will be a better
deal.
Dairy producers in Belen and Roswell
have talked with me about how, even
when New Mexican dairies aren’t sell-
ing directly to Canada, increased mar-
ket access and new pricing will raise
commodity prices across the country.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.047 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12263
December 19, 2019
USMCA makes significant progress
in protecting American workers by
evening the playing field with mean-
ingful enforcement mechanisms that
will protect hard-won improvements.
Other New Mexicans, like our world-
famous New Mexico chili and pecan
growers, now have the certainty of a
trade deal.
New Mexico stands to gain real bene-
fits after we pass USMCA today.
Like any deal, it isn’t perfect. Envi-
ronment and enforcement standards
can always be improved. But the
USMCA is entirely necessary for New
Mexico’s producers, workers, and con-
sumers.
This deal will deliver for New Mex-
ico. It shows that compromise can be
made, that we can put politics aside.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote in favor of USMCA.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. GOSAR).
Mr. GOSAR. Madam Speaker, I rise
in support of the USMCA but also to
raise a concern about the inclusion of
section 230 language of the Commu-
nications Decency Act.
This act gives broad legal immunity
to Big Tech, which, in turn, uses it as
a shield from accountability. It is im-
portant that this provision is not—I
state ‘‘not’’—included in future trade
agreements.
The behavior of Big Tech has been
the subject of substantial scrutiny.
Much of this scrutiny revolves around
the appropriateness of maintaining
this immunity clause.
On a daily basis, new concerns are
raised about section 230, including ille-
gal drug sales, child exploitation, ter-
rorist recruitment, political bias, re-
venge porn, deepfakes, and many more.
Section 230 has played a significant
role.
When Speaker PELOSI and I agree on
an issue, there is some there there.
I encourage my colleagues to support
the USMCA but again raise the issue
about section 230. Its continued merit
on how it would apply to both trade
agreements and everyday application
demand modification due to its lack of
accountability.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Iowa
(Mrs. AXNE). I can assure the people of
Iowa that she advocated on behalf of
this agreement.
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Speaker, today,
a lot of hard work is paying off with
the passage of USMCA.
I thank my colleagues who crafted
this agreement that gives market sta-
bility to farmers, protects Iowa work-
ers from having their wages undercut,
and helps reduce the high cost of bio-
logic drugs. It even has important envi-
ronmental protections.
I know my farmers, producers, and
agriculture workers are celebrating the
passage of USMCA today.
Everywhere I go, the message has
been clear: We need USMCA because of
uncertainty in our markets.
We now have that deal.
The House has done a great job, but
the Senate already said they won’t
take up this agreement anytime soon.
It will pass today with bipartisan
support. Whenever the Senate chooses
to bring it up, it will pass with bipar-
tisan support then, as well. The same
Senators who have blamed the House
for not moving this forward quickly
enough are now stopping the USMCA
from becoming law.
Iowans and Americans are asking for
help, and we must get this deal done.
I am proud to have fought for a bet-
ter trade agreement that works for
Iowa, and I encourage those of us to
vote for it in the House and for the
Senate to take it up for a vote to make
life better for people across the coun-
try.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. KEL-
LER).
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of the United States-
Mexico-Canada trade agreement. While
I am glad we are here today, this mo-
ment is long overdue.
While Democrats have been focusing
on impeaching President Trump, man-
ufacturers and family farmers in Penn-
sylvania’s 12th Congressional District
have been waiting for the trade deal to
be ratified. That is because this trade
deal means a lot to the hardworking
people and farmers of Pennsylvania’s
12th Congressional District.
Just take the positive effect the
USMCA will have on Pennsylvania’s
12th Congressional District farmers.
Pennsylvania’s 12th Congressional Dis-
trict is home to more than 10,500 farms,
98 percent of which are family farms.
Moreover, our district is responsible
for 18 percent of Pennsylvania’s agri-
culture products.
The provisions in this deal elimi-
nating Canada’s class 7 milk pricing
program, increasing corn and soybean
exports, and many other improvements
will make a huge difference for those
family farms.
More important is the leverage that
gives the United States when negoti-
ating additional trade deals.
It is no surprise that when Speaker
PELOSI agreed to the USMCA, China
agreed to the Phase One trade deal
that President Trump had been negoti-
ating for the benefit of our country.
Again, USMCA is long overdue, but I
am glad we are finally here to be able
to support America in this trade deal.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I am
glad to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. COSTA),
who is an assertive advocate of
USMCA.
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise
to recognize all the hard work it took
to reach this agreement for the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement:
Chairman NEAL, Chairman BRADY,
Chairman BLUMENAUER, the good work
of Ambassador Lighthizer, the working
groups the Speaker put together, and
the Speaker’s desire to see this get
across the finish line.
It is important to update NAFTA for
the sake of the American workers and
our agricultural economy.
This agreement will improve oppor-
tunities for good-paying jobs in Amer-
ica by updating labor protections and
standards in Mexico that can be en-
forced.
The agreement goes a long way to
improve environmental standards and
clean up cross-border pollution be-
tween California and Mexico and other
border
With nearly half of California’s agri-
cultural products destined for foreign
markets, the certainty this deal brings
to relations between our two largest
trading partners, Canada and Mexico,
cannot be overstated.
I was glad to be a part of this bipar-
tisan effort to bring people together for
today’s vote.
I congratulate the President. The
fact of the matter is, this is good for
America, good for working people, and
good for agriculture.
Madam Speaker, I look forward to
supporting USMCA, and I urge my col-
leagues to do the same.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Minnesota (Mr.
HAGEDORN).
Mr. HAGEDORN. Madam Speaker,
after advocating for USMCA this past
year, I am excited to vote for it today.
Not only will this deal expand trade
with Mexico and Canada, but it is
going to help us build momentum for
deals with other nations, like China,
Vietnam, and so forth. It is going to be
great for our country.
One quick example of how this helps
the American people, particularly farm
families: Over the summer, Farmers
for Free Trade rallied in our southern
Minnesota district for USMCA. We
were at the Hoffman Dairy Farm,
about 15 miles south of New Ulm. The
Hoffmans are sixth-generation dairy
farms. They said that it has been 5 or
6 years of tough commodity prices—
low prices, high input cost. They need-
ed a win.
Our market for dairy has been shut
out of Canada, virtually, with 300 per-
cent tariffs. USMCA is going to knock
down those tariffs, allow more exports,
create more demand, help families like
the Hoffmans, and help our country. I
urge everyone to vote for the agree-
ment.
Madam Speaker, as the first member of
Minnesota’s congressional delegation to sup-
port the USMCA, I am thrilled to finally have
the opportunity to vote for the implementation
of this agreement.
The USMCA is a long overdue, much need-
ed and well-deserved bipartisan win for the
American people. The agreement is a win for
our workers, businesses, farmers and families
in Minnesota’s First District and throughout the
nation.
It will open new markets, expand economic
opportunity and create new high-wage jobs,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:41 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12264 December 19, 2019
build momentum for trade deals with China
and other nations, and help protect and pro-
mote our rural way of life in southern Min-
nesota.
We are already seeing evidence of this mo-
mentum with the United States and China an-
nouncing a ‘‘Phase One’’ trade agreement just
days after the bipartisan agreement on
USMCA was reached.
I am personally hearing from the farmers
back home that they are relieved to finally
have some market certainty after six years of
low commodity prices. Especially our dairy
farmers, who for the first time will have access
to the Canadian market.
USMCA is also a boon to manufacturers
who will continue to have duty-free access to
Canada and Mexico, the industry’s largest ex-
port markets—creating tens of thousands of
new jobs and adding nearly $70 billion to the
U.S. economy as a whole.
I will vote ‘‘yes’’ on this agreement, I urge
my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do
the same, and I hope the Senate will move
quickly to ratify the deal and send it to Presi-
dent Trump’s desk so that the agreement can
be implemented as quickly as possible for the
American people.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr.
CUNNINGHAM), and I want to recognize
the critical role that he played in get-
ting us to this bipartisan negotiation
of USMCA.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Speaker,
today, I am proud to rise in support of
USMCA.
As the Representative of South Caro-
lina’s Lowcountry, which is home to
the Port of Charleston, Volvo, Bosch,
JW Aluminum, Becton Dickinson, and
countless other manufacturers, I know
just how important market stability
and trade certainty is to my constitu-
ents.
I promised the people of the
Lowcountry I would come to Wash-
ington to work with Democrats and
Republicans in Congress, the White
House, and anyone else necessary to
find bipartisan, commonsense solutions
to issues impacting our district. Pas-
sage of USMCA is a major step in that
direction.
b 1300
Nearly 30,000 jobs in our district are
supported by trade with Mexico and
Canada. This agreement is absolutely
critical to maintaining good-paying
jobs and economic growth in the
Lowcountry.
I urge all of my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to support passage of
the USMCA to bolster America’s econ-
omy, support workers, and protect the
environment.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Arkan-
sas (Mr. HILL), my friend, a leader of
trade policy in the George H.W. Bush
administration.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in support of the
USMCA, and I want to congratulate
my friends, Mr. BRADY from Texas and
Mr. NEAL, for their leadership in the
House Ways and Means Committee. It
is a great victory for their hard work
and perseverance.
As a member of the USMCA Repub-
lican House Whip Team, I was proud to
advocate on behalf of this much-needed
update to NAFTA.
Twenty-seven years ago, I worked for
President Bush 41 and worked on sup-
porting his goal of North America be-
coming the world’s premier economic
market. How pleased he would be to be
here today and see this bipartisan sup-
port to update the North American
trade market for a new generation.
Impressive, indeed. We will take con-
verts to free trade every day, even if
some of them are overnight converts.
The Senate must act expeditiously
now to convert this dream to a reality
and benefit the 100,000 Arkansans who
live and die by trade with Canada and
Mexico.
Congratulations to President Trump
and Ambassador Lighthizer on this his-
toric victory, and Happy New Year to
the economic region in North America.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Illi-
nois (Mrs. BUSTOS), a well-regarded
Congresswoman whose district I have
visited.
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I ap-
preciate Chairman NEAL for yielding
me the time.
In my congressional district, I rep-
resent more than 9,600 family farms
and 90,000 labor households. I have
toured my district many times and was
fortunate enough to bring the Speaker
of the House into the State of Illinois
over the summer to meet with our fam-
ily farmers.
Trade is one of the top issues people
back home bring up to me, and the
message that they deliver is loud and
clear: We need a strong trade deal with
broad-based support to help both Amer-
ica’s farmers and our labor commu-
nities.
I have worked to help bring parties
to the table and reach a deal that
works for everyone. I am proud to say
that the United States-Mexico-Canada
trade agreement is that deal.
The USMCA outlines protections for
labor that will make America better
prepared to expand opportunities for
our workforce. It builds on trade rela-
tionships critical to our agriculture
markets, and it represents the strong-
est trade enforcement mechanisms our
country has ever seen.
I am proud to cast my vote to sup-
port this step forward and to help build
the foundation for future trade agree-
ments.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from South
Dakota (Mr. JOHNSON), an agriculture
leader from the Mount Rushmore
State.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota.
Madam Speaker, so often in this polit-
ical environment, victories bring with
them a winner, but many more losers.
Today is different. Today is a celebra-
tion. Today brings with it a bounty of
benefits to a multitude of winners.
If you are a dairy family, today you
are a winner.
If you are a middle-class family,
today you are a winner.
If you grow wheat, if you write code,
if you process cheese, you are a winner
today.
So often in this Chamber we lament
deals that could have been, but today
is a deal we are celebrating, with $2 bil-
lion of new agriculture exports, with
176,000 new jobs, with $68 billion of real
growth in this economy.
Madam Speaker, today, 300 million
Americans are winners.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Ohio
(Ms. KAPTUR), a very good friend of
mine.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman for yielding me
the time.
I rise in opposition to NAFTA 2,
which has been rebranded the USMCA.
First of all, it is being rushed
through at the last moments of this
session without the majority of Mem-
bers even able to read it or participate
in hearings on it.
Number two, it will not stem the
continental outsourcing of U.S. jobs,
and, sadly, and most importantly, it
will not achieve the real enforcement
by the Governments of Mexico or the
United States.
For over 10 years, I have been trying
to get the Government of Mexico to ar-
rest and prosecute the brutal mur-
derers of Santiago Cruz, a Mexican na-
tional fighting against the huge conti-
nental labor trafficking of his country-
men. He was educating his fellow farm-
workers that they did not have to pay
a bounty of $8,000 to come to this coun-
try to work in our fields as they be-
came indentured workers.
Despite my over 10 years of efforts to
bring justice to his brutal killers, Mex-
ico behaves as if this crime never oc-
curred. Why should I believe Mexico
will enforce anything?
Furthermore, about a month ago, we
saw the President of Mexico not able to
keep control of his own streets, and he
released the son of El Chapo, the drug
lord. What makes you think this ad-
ministration or the one in Mexico will
do anything to enforce the laws that
USMCA purports to support?
I urge all of my colleagues to vote
‘‘no.’’
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Indi-
ana (Mr. BAIRD).
Mr. BAIRD. Madam Speaker, for sev-
eral months now, I have been very
vocal about the importance of passing
the USMCA for Indiana. I have heard
from constituents about their desire to
get this deal done. I have also encour-
aged my colleagues to push for a vote.
So I applaud the leadership to get
this historic deal accomplished. To-
day’s passage of USMCA will give busi-
nesses and farmers across our district
increased opportunity to grow.
In 2018, our State exported more than
$18 billion to Mexico and Canada.
Under USMCA, that number will rise.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:41 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12265
December 19, 2019
This trade deal is a big win for our
automotive industry and agricultural
community and for the protection of
our intellectual property. With this im-
proved trade agreement, we will see
better market access and job growth
here at home.
I am proud to support the passage of
USMCA and look forward to supporting
more victories for the U.S. economy.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. BRINDISI), a very accom-
plished gentleman.
Mr. BRINDISI. Madam Speaker, I
want to thank the chairman for yield-
ing and thank him for his work and the
work of the Trade Working Group for
their tireless effort to get this deal
done.
I rise today in strong support of this
legislation and for swift approval of
USMCA.
We need to make sure that New
York’s workers, farmers, and small
businesses have a fair shot at success.
That is why I worked hard with Mem-
bers on both sides of the aisle and the
administration to get this deal to the
finish line.
There are many reasons to support
this agreement, such as stronger labor
and environmental standards, but I
will use my brief time to highlight the
impact this will have on upstate New
York’s dairy farmers.
I have heard from dairy farmers
across upstate New York about the
need to get more milk to market, boost
milk prices, and crack down on unfair
Canadian price supports, which USMCA
will do.
USMCA will help family farms, help
manufacturers, and protect workers,
and I urge swift passage of this agree-
ment.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. DAVIDSON), a
manufacturing champion.
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Madam
Speaker, I thank the chairman for
yielding.
It is an honor to stand in support of
the U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agree-
ment.
Trade is a vital part of our economy.
It has made America the world’s land
of opportunity. We have been a vital
part of the world’s economy.
Certainty is needed in trade right
now. This deal certainly isn’t perfect,
but far too often here in Congress we
let perfect become the enemy of good.
Frankly, we have a choice between
no NAFTA, NAFTA, or an improved
NAFTA, so it is not a hard multiple
choice test. It is an improvement, and
I look forward to continuing to work to
advance the cause of capitalism and
free trade in the United States of
America.
Opportunities are going to make
things better for Ohio’s Eighth Dis-
trict, from manufacturing to agri-
culture, to financial services, and I
thank everyone who has had a hand in
making this come to fruition.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. DAVIS), a very capable
Congresswoman.
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speak-
er, I thank Chairman NEAL for yield-
ing.
Trade negotiations are not for the
faint of heart. Few votes have gen-
erated more passion in this Chamber
than votes on trade agreements. That
is why I am so glad that we finally
have an agreement that Members from
both sides of the aisle can support.
It is no secret why that is. This is an
agreement that sets up, for the first
time, facility-level inspections to make
sure that workers’ rights are being
honored, and it removes the onerous IP
provisions that have made their way
into far too many trade agreements in
recent years.
Finally, as a Member from the San
Diego region, it is important to have
an agreement like this that both pre-
serves and improves the binational
partnership that defines the larger
community.
This agreement lays the groundwork
for the Federal Government to finally
address the longstanding pollution
flowing from the Tijuana River into
San Diego Bay, which impacts both the
health of our community and our mili-
tary.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. DINGELL), a very capa-
ble Member of the House.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for all of his hard work
on getting us here today.
We have to be honest: This trade deal
won’t undo the deep damage NAFTA 1.0
has done to our American workers,
American manufacturing, and our envi-
ronment. Today, factories sit empty in
Michigan and across my district, while
workers are unable to compete with
subpar nonunion workers in other
countries.
A new trade agreement is not just
going to uproot those factories from
overseas and bring them back home,
but we fought hard to improve the
original deal because what the Trump
administration first proposed wasn’t
enough. Democrats fought for stronger
labor and environmental standards and
tougher enforcement mechanisms.
This agreement has earned my vote
because of the significant improve-
ments made over the last year in
NAFTA 1.0, but our work is still there
to strengthen American manufac-
turing, protect our environment, invest
in our workers, and make sure we keep
America at the forefront of innovation
and technology.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. DELGADO), a very capable
Congressman and my neighbor.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for yielding.
My district, New York’s 19th Con-
gressional District, is home to nearly
5,000 farms. These are not large or cor-
porate operations. They are small fam-
ily farms passed down from one genera-
tion to the next.
These family farmers across my dis-
trict—dairy, organic, vegetable, and di-
versified farmers—are being squeezed
by market consolidation, lower prices,
and unfavorable conditions during this
downturn in the farm economy.
Today, the House has an opportunity
to provide a long-overdue tool for their
success—in a word, stability. The
USMCA will maintain and, in some
cases, increase, for our farmers, access
to critical markets in Canada and Mex-
ico.
I will cast my vote to ratify this im-
portant agreement with strength and
protections for American workers and
organized labor, as well as facility-spe-
cific enforcement mechanisms for
these new terms.
I will close with a reminder.
This is not a panacea. Our small
farmers are facing significant
headwinds, and it is our duty, as a
body, to support this time-honored tra-
dition in upstate New York and across
our country.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 30
seconds to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. LEVIN), my friend.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Speaker,
I thank my colleague for yielding.
The threshold question for any
NAFTA replacement must be whether
it will finally stop the outflow of
American jobs and raise the standard
of living for Mexican, Canadian, and, of
course, American workers.
My Democratic colleagues have
worked tirelessly to ensure NAFTA’s
replacement leads to positive change,
and I thank them for their efforts
which have improved the deal Presi-
dent Trump originally negotiated.
But these improvements will not be
enough to overhaul the entrenched sys-
tem in Mexico that denies workers
their rights, keeps wages unconscion-
ably low, and, consequently,
incentivizes companies to ship jobs to
Mexico.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BRINDISI). The time of the gentleman
has expired.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentleman from Michigan an addi-
tional 30 seconds.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. It
incentivizes companies to ship jobs to
Mexico and out of our communities
like mine in southeast Michigan.
Mexico has not demonstrated the
will, meaningfully, to reform its labor
system, and the weakness of USMCA’s
enforcement mechanisms mean that we
will not be able to hold Mexico’s feet to
the fire when promised reforms do not
occur.
I genuinely hope I am wrong about
this, but I fear we can expect the
USMCA will perpetuate the harms of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.053 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12266 December 19, 2019
NAFTA for Mexican and American
workers alike; therefore, I oppose this
legislation.
b 1315
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Texas
(Mrs. FLETCHER), who is very capable.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of this USMCA agree-
ment. In my home State of Texas,
trade with Mexico and Canada ac-
counts for billions of dollars and mil-
lions of jobs, many of them at the Port
of Houston and in the greater Houston
area.
The USMCA modernizes the frame-
work for our trade, strengthening en-
forcement, labor, and environmental
provisions in an updated agreement
that does not adversely impact our
businesses, our workers, or our envi-
ronment.
It is also critical for our energy fu-
ture, codifying a new zero-tariff policy
and further encouraging U.S. energy
exports across North America for years
to come.
The agreement represents a true bi-
partisan accomplishment that will set
the standard for future trade agree-
ments.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chair-
man NEAL, the working group, Ranking
Member BRADY, and Ambassador
Lighthizer for their work. As cochair of
the New Democrat Coalition Trade
Task Force, I have been actively work-
ing with them to advance this agree-
ment all year. I am so glad to see it
come to the floor of the House. I en-
courage my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I am pre-
pared to close.
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, Texas is made for trade.
No State ships or sells more around the
world than the Lone Star State, and
especially in my home region in the
Houston area of the Eighth Congres-
sional District of Texas.
So many of our jobs depend on free
and fair trade, almost 1 million in our
State alone. The new USMCA is incred-
ibly vital and incredibly important for
us because our two largest trading
partners are our friend and neighbor,
Mexico, and Canada as well.
I want to thank President Trump for
bringing this trade agreement to re-
ality. Like other Presidential can-
didates, he pledged to renegotiate
NAFTA. Unlike any others, he deliv-
ered. He was convinced that we could
rebuild bipartisan trade here in Amer-
ica by insisting on a fair and level
playing field for American workers,
and he was exactly right.
Earlier, when he championed tax re-
form, he did that because every expert
and every other Presidential candidate,
including Democrats, said: manufac-
turing in America is dead, just give up,
it won’t come back.
He believed otherwise, and so did Re-
publicans; and because of our GOP tax
cuts and his balanced regulations, we
have created over a half a million new
manufacturing jobs right here in Amer-
ica over the last 2 years.
I want to thank Ambassador Robert
Lighthizer for being the architect of
this trade agreement. I will tell you,
Mr. Speaker, I was a skeptic when he
said that we can rebuild bipartisan
trade and we can fulfill many of the
Democrats’ labor and environmental
wishes that no other President had
ever delivered. So he proved me wrong.
Working closely with Chairman NEAL
and others, he, in the original trade
agreement of the USMCA a year ago,
produced the most pro-labor and pro-
environmental trade agreement in
American history. In the last few
months he has worked closely with
Democrats to fine-tune that agreement
so that these issues are enforceable.
Republicans support that enforcement.
I also appreciate the leadership of
Chairman NEAL, without whom we
would not be here today. And I want to
especially thank my trade staff led by
the remarkable Angela Ellard, Josh
Snead, David Giordano, and someone
whose last day is with us here, Blake
Harden as well.
During my time on the Ways and
Means Committee, I have been proud to
help lead the passage of 12 of the trade
agreements America has in place today
and two updates of the Trade Pro-
motion Authority that lays out the
trade rules for the White House and
Congress to follow. So for me this is
number 13.
I believe in the freedom to trade, and
I truly believe it is the greatest eco-
nomic freedom we possess. It lays at
the heart of our free enterprise system.
As Thomas Jefferson wrote: ‘‘Com-
merce with other nations is not only
necessary and beneficial to all parties,
it is a right and a duty.’’
It is the freedom to buy, sell, and
compete anywhere in the world with as
little government interference as pos-
sible. It is a freedom that if we build a
better mousetrap, then we can sell it
anywhere in the world; and when some-
one else builds a better mousetrap,
then we have the freedom to buy it for
our family and for our business. That
economic freedom has lifted millions
out of poverty and provided oppor-
tunity, prosperity, and peace, not just
for ourselves but for the world.
That is why it was so disappointing
the Democrats held up moving forward
on this agreement for so long because
every day of delay helped China, helped
Europe, and helped other countries.
This was long overdue.
But the truth of the matter is, we are
here today and we have pulled together
in a historic vote. America is made for
trade, and with our new, strong econ-
omy—the most competitive economy
today in the world—we need more cus-
tomers all around the world. That is
what this trade agreement does. It de-
livers on new customers and delivers
on new prosperity.
I will close with this, Mr. Speaker.
On the Ways and Means Committee I
hold a seat formerly held by President
George H. W. Bush and former Chair-
man Bill Archer. When President Bush
signed this agreement in San Antonio,
he said this so many years ago:
This agreement is an achievement of three
strong and proud nations and expresses our
confidence in economic freedom and personal
freedom in our people’s energy and enter-
prise.
It is an honor to vote today in sup-
port of the States U.S.-Mexico-Canada
agreement that embraces and enhances
economic and personal freedom. Mem-
bers of Congress should take pride in
this work that they have put in to
make today’s debate on today’s trade
agreement a reality.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
So on this occasion, Mr. Speaker, we
conclude after 14 months of negotiating
a hemispheric trade agreement—no
small matter and no small accomplish-
ment. It included a visit with the dele-
gation to Mexico to meet with the
President of Mexico, President Lopez
Obrador. It included a delegation that
visited Prime Minister Trudeau in Can-
ada and intense negotiations in both
countries, and I think it is fair to say
that the conversations in both coun-
tries were indeed very spirited.
But before I go to more of the spe-
cifics, we would not have gotten here
without some very important and crit-
ical moments of focused and diligent
work by Members of the House and the
staff that got us to where we are today.
First, an acknowledgment to Speaker
PELOSI, who from day one said that the
game plan is to get to yes. Her leader-
ship to get the deal across the line, I
think, was matched almost by her top
trade adviser, Katherine Monge.
Let me thank the working group
members, Trade Subcommittee Chair-
man BLUMENAUER and his staff Laura
Thrift and David Skillman; Represent-
ative THOMPSON and his staff, Jennifer
Goedke; Representative LARSON and
his staff, Scott Stephanou; Representa-
tive TERRI SEWELL and her staff, Rob
Nuttall; Representative JIM GOMEZ and
his staff, Sam Negatu; Representative
ROSA DELAURO and her staff, Jack
Spasiano; Representative SCHAKOWSKY
and her staff, Syd Terry and Osaremen
Okolo; and Representative SUZANNE
BONAMICI and her staff, Allison Smith.
I want to thank the House Legisla-
tive Counsel, Mark Synnes and Kalyani
Parthasarathy for their expertise, cre-
ativity, and many hours of hard and
good work with our staff to prepare
this legislation that is more than 200
pages long. They represent the very
best of this institution’s profes-
sionalism.
For the support of colleagues and
staff that I received from the diplo-
matic corps in Mexico City and Ot-
tawa, we should express our gratitude
as well to Ms. Elizabeth Hoffman at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:09 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.054 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12267
December 19, 2019
our Embassy in Mexico City for her ex-
traordinary talents and efforts to sup-
port our attempts as we got to yes.
I have great confidence and belief in
the staff members at the Ways and
Means Committee, and, yes, on both
sides. So I want to thank my com-
mittee staff who have worked tirelessly
on this agreement: Chief Trade Counsel
and staff director of the Trade Sub-
committee, Katherine Tai, who led us
through the process along with her
staff, Keigan Mull, Julia Friedman,
Katie White, Alexandra Whittaker,
John Catalfamo, and Kate Connor
Linton. They were supported by a cast
of very bright fellows and interns,
Brishailah Brown, Chenoa Lee, and Tif-
fany Venmahavong.
I also want to thank our colleagues
across the aisle. Especially I want to
acknowledge today the role that Am-
bassador Robert Lighthizer played in
this. There is something to be said for
the experience of Capitol Hill and hav-
ing been a former staff member. Time
and again we thought we weren’t going
to get to where we wanted to be. And
there were some moments, I would say,
of incendiary commentary back and
forth. Though there were many threats
to leave the negotiation, it never mate-
rialized because a long walk through
this Capitol can solve a lot of chal-
lenges.
Mr. BRADY was invaluable as well,
and his committee staff, Angela Ellard,
Josh Snead, Blake Harden, and David
Giordano all played a very important
role here.
This really is a bipartisan agreement,
and I hope and expect that the chal-
lenges to USMCA will allow H.R. 5430
to enjoy broad, bipartisan support.
I certainly am urging support for this
because of the following: it bolsters
workers’ rights; it corrects earlier
Trump administration backsliding on
environmental obligations to get us to
this trade agreement; it eliminated
many big giveaways to companies that
would have locked in high medicine
prices, and it preserves Congress’ free-
dom to legislate to bring those prices
down; and it incorporates the strongest
enforcement mechanisms, including
specifically enhanced mechanisms for
enforcing labor rights in any U.S. trade
agreement.
There are three titles that are de-
voted to the United States Government
and our role: monitoring and enforce-
ment of USMCA partners’ obligations,
monitoring and enforcement of USMCA
partners’ environmental obligations,
and more than $843 million over 4 years
that will be dedicated to monitoring
and enforcement of labor and environ-
mental obligations, including funds for
education and training of workers and
inspectors.
We would not have gotten here
today, however, without the important
considerations of organized labor and
the honorable men and women of the
AFL/CIO and the Teamsters. We had
broad support by including them in the
negotiation and the discussions. This
agreement is much the better for it,
but it also is the signature accomplish-
ment for all of us who had a chance to
participate in it.
Every once in a while, Mr. Speaker,
you get to participate in these it-will-
never-happen moments, and I believe
that this indeed is one of them. So we
also thank the NETWORK Lobby for
Catholic Social Justice, American
Chemistry Council, Association for Ac-
cessible Medicines, Coalition of Serv-
ices Industries, Farmers for Free
Trade, Information Technology Indus-
try, the National Association of Manu-
facturers, the National Council of Tex-
tiles Organizations, The Software Alli-
ance, and, indeed, many others.
I hope that this will serve as a tem-
plate going forward for the two sides to
reach a combination on many of the
priorities that expire this year that we
will include next year. But, also, I
think it is an example of when men and
women in this institution of goodwill—
not just in the season—but men and
women of goodwill can find common
occurrence and common ground on an
issue, in the end, that is really impor-
tant to all members of the American
family.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, twenty-five
years ago, I strongly opposed and helped lead
the opposition against the North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). While our ef-
forts narrowly failed in the House, I was proud
to vote against it.
Then-President Clinton said that the North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
would create thousands of good-paying U.S.
jobs and would result in trade surpluses be-
tween $9–$12 billion. The reality, however,
couldn’t be further from the truth, and NAFTA
has been an absolute disaster.
After railing against NAFTA and promising
to deliver a dramatically improved deal or with-
draw from the agreement altogether, President
Trump and his administration delivered the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
(USMCA). By all accounts, the USMCA was
nothing more than a continuation of NAFTA’s
same failed policies.
After months of extensive negotiations be-
tween House Democrats and the U.S. Trade
Representative (USTR), important improve-
ments have been made to the USMCA on a
number of issues, including improvements I
have long fought for and helped secure.
After extensive work with USTR, I am proud
to have secured provisions in the USMCA that
will better enable the U.S. to safeguard our
roads. The deal includes language that allows
the United States to restrict domestic long-
haul services by Mexican trucks in the event
of material harm to U.S. trucking suppliers, op-
erators, and drivers. I am pleased that this re-
striction provides teeth to protect the U.S.
trucking industry from unfair trade practices by
Mexican motor carriers, and provides for con-
sideration of impacts on driver wages and
working conditions, to avoid a race to the bot-
tom in trucking.
I am also pleased that damaging provisions
that would have kept prescription drug costs
high have been removed. House Democrats
were able to successfully negotiate the re-
moval of provisions that would have kept
cheaper, generic drugs off the market longer.
Working Americans have been waiting for
more than two decades for the opportunity to
fix NAFTA’s failed policies. Throughout my ca-
reer I have fought for a truly transformative re-
placement that supports American workers
while safeguarding the environment and pro-
tecting consumers. While it is an improvement
from NAFTA, I do not believe that the USMCA
is that transformative deal, and, as a result, I
will be voting against it today.
The fact of the matter is that there is a
deeply entrenched system of wage and rights
suppression in Mexico. Hundreds of thou-
sands of U.S. jobs were lost to Mexico as a
result of this system, and these jobs aren’t
coming back to our country. Without upending
this entrenched system altogether, we will not
be able to raise wages and standards for
Mexican workers, which means we will con-
tinue to struggle to prevent the hemorrhaging
of American jobs that are being outsourced to
low wage jobs in Mexico. I do not believe
Mexico has devoted the funding or the staffing
necessary for these changes, nor do I believe
this agreement goes far enough in ensuring
that workers and the U.S. have the remedies
needed to prevent abuses from continuing to
occur moving forward. Democratic and Repub-
lican administrations have shirked their re-
sponsibilities to fight for higher labor standards
and fair trade policies, and I do not believe
this agreement does enough to prevent those
kind of abuses moving forward.
Further, the Republican tax bill enacted in
2017 actually promotes outsourcing by allow-
ing multinational corporations to cut their tax
rate in half if they shut a factory in the U.S.
and move it to Mexico. I will reintroduce legis-
lation next year to eliminate this incentive.
Beyond this, the USMCA is at its core a
deal that will continue to promote pro-polluter,
climate-denying policies. There are no sub-
stantive provisions to seriously curb air and
water pollution, the deal completely ignores
climate change, and its environmental enforce-
ment mechanism is not nearly strong enough.
We need to do much more to take bold steps
to address climate change and to curb cor-
porate polluting.
I am also disappointed that the administra-
tion abandoned its original position to elimi-
nate chapter 19. I have long called for the
elimination of this unconstitutional chapter
which allows foreign tribunals to overrule U.S.
trade protections against heavily subsidized
foreign imports, and I am disappointed that the
administration acquiesced to Canada.
While I don’t believe this agreement sets
forward a bold vision for a 21st century trade
agreement, the reality is that this agreement
will become law, and that means the real work
of monitoring and enforcing the new provisions
will begin. I will push for robust oversight and
enforcement of the labor and environmental
standards and work to ensure that any and all
flaws are appropriately addressed when the
USMCA’s sunset provisions kick-in six years
from now.
I have spent my entire career fighting on be-
half of the American worker, including voting
against every so-called free trade deal pro-
posed to Congress that undermines our work-
force and enables the destruction of our envi-
ronment. I will continue to fight for truly trans-
formative deals that create a new standard for
how trade agreements should support the U.S.
and its people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:41 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12268 December 19, 2019
Mr. Speaker, despite President Trump’s
promises to fix NAFTA and make a perfect
trade agreement that will bring jobs back to
the United States, the NAFTA 2.0 agreement
signed last year prioritized corporations over
American workers. Democratic lawmakers ne-
gotiated vigorously to improve the shoddy
2018 agreement, and they should be ap-
plauded for their work on the U.S. Mexico
Canada Agreement (USMCA). The USMCA
marks a significant improvement over the
NAFTA 2.0 agreement on issues related to
labor standards. The USMCA establishes
labor specific enforcement mechanisms, re-
moves NAFTA’s Investor-State Dispute Settle-
ment (ISDS) regime, and eliminates huge
giveaways to the pharmaceutical industry.
While significant strides were made, the
agreement ultimately falls short of the critical
labor and environmental needs that face our
country today. Although I regretfully had to
miss today’s vote due to a family emergency,
I would have voted no on the USMCA.
The USMCA does take long-overdue steps
to improve conditions for Mexican workers and
remove incentives for companies to move
American jobs to Mexico. To be clear, this
agreement will do nothing to bring back hun-
dreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs to
the U.S., and the Republican’s tax bill signed
into law last year still contains major incen-
tives for corporations to outsource and off-
shore jobs. Mexico’s promise to provide new
labor protections, and the new rules included
in this agreement, will help many workers in
Mexico. However, the USMCA’s enforcement
mechanisms simply will not do enough to en-
sure these new rules are followed and could
make it impossible for the U.S. to hold Mexico
responsible if these promised reforms do not
take effect.
Unfortunately, USMCA fails to address our
climate crisis and adequately protect our envi-
ronment. The agreement does not include en-
forcement of the Paris Climate Agreement or
even the phrase ‘‘climate change.’’ It leaves
intact NAFTA’s incentives for corporations to
dodge clean energy policies in the U.S. and
leaves enforcement to a NAFTA-style inter-
agency committee with little authority beyond
writing reports. The agreement would not ad-
dress documented pollution dumping and sets
no limits on air, water, or land pollution. The
deregulatory standards would also make it
even harder for the U.S. to set new environ-
mental regulations in the future. It was impos-
sible for me to support this agreement without
significantly more robust and binding environ-
mental standards.
I respect and appreciate the hard work and
dedication of my Democratic colleagues in
transforming President Trump’s terrible
NAFTA 2.0 agreement into a more robust and
fair USMCA. However, because of the weak
environmental standards and the lack of ro-
bust enforcement of labor rights, I cannot sup-
port it.
Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong
support of the US-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Implementing Act. Updating NAFTA is crucial
to America’s workforce and our economy. Our
vote today is not just about a trade bill. For
our nation, trade has never been singularly
about the exchange of goods and services
across borders. This bill is about making mon-
umental progress in the fundamental frame-
work of trade negotiations. It is about Amer-
ica’s competitive edge, the rights of our work-
ers, the stewardship of our environment, and
so much more.
Millions of American jobs depend on trade
with Canada and Mexico. NAFTA is a 25-year-
old agreement that has long needed an up-
grade to meet the demands of our times.
American workers and American businesses
deserve the best possible update that we can
negotiate, I believe that is precisely what we
have here.
As a member of the New Democrat Coali-
tion, and a strong supporter of international
trade, I have for years fought for the advance-
ment of key New Dem priorities to be included
in trade bills. With USMCA I am pleased that
under Speaker PELOSI’s leadership Democrats
negotiated for many of these priorities and
they are in this agreement.
I am proud that we fought for and secured
stronger labor and environmental provisions
and the elimination of language in the imple-
menting bill that would have allowed the ad-
ministration to unilaterally lower the U.S. de
minimis threshold.
The great state of New York shares a bor-
der with Canada. New York’s connection with
its top trading partner, Canada, is strength-
ened in this agreement. With USMCA, New
York’s sixteen billion dollars in exports to Can-
ada can increase, jobs are secured, and we
lay the groundwork for deeper economic ties
while making progress in the best interest of
citizens throughout North America.
America’s strength has always been under-
girded by our prowess in trade. New York has
a special place in American history in that re-
gard. With USMCA we safeguard our nation’s
ability to compete, while being caretakers of
our environment and upholding the rights of
our workers. After 14 months of negotiations,
I am proud to support this bipartisan agree-
ment, and push forward the framework for
trade agreements in the years to come. I urge
my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R.
5430—The United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement Implementation Act.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to oppose the United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement (USMCA).
Throughout my entire career, I have heard
the promises of free trade agreements, yet
have seen the subsequent challenges faced
by steelworkers and the American manufac-
turing industry.
Specifically, the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) was rationalized on the
promise of creating good-paying American
jobs. Instead, this agreement contributed to
the loss of over 700,000 American jobs
through outsourcing and suppressed American
wages. NAFTA has also led to the degrada-
tion of our environment through the lack of
strong environmental protections and the con-
sequent increase of greenhouse gas emis-
sions in North America.
While I recognize that the USMCA appears
to be an improvement over NAFTA, I remain
deeply skeptical that it does enough.
For example, the USMCA includes a provi-
sion for enforcing labor standards. However,
there is a lack of clarity on timelines for certain
steps throughout the investigation process,
which could delay enforcing penalties on viola-
tors of the agreement. I also remain leery that
our trading partners have not demonstrated
the commitment, fortitude, or track record to
faithfully execute the labor protections detailed
in this agreement.
Additionally, the USMCA includes a provi-
sion to require 40 to 45 percent of the vehicles
made in the United States, Mexico, and Can-
ada to be made by workers who earn—on av-
erage—at least $16 per hour. However, the
calculation requirements for the average wage
allows for the inclusion of wages related to re-
search, development, and information tech-
nology employees, which could cause the con-
tinued suppression of wages for American
manufacturing employees.
Further, in regard to environmental protec-
tions, the USMCA includes a provision that
recognizes pollution as a threat to public
health. However, it does not create binding
standards and omits essential limits on air,
water, and land pollution, which could create
more challenges for future generations.
Finally, I would emphasize that advancing
the USMCA to the full House for a vote within
a week of receiving the text circumvents Con-
gress’ responsibility to the American people to
thoroughly examine this agreement, which will
have profound implications for our workers,
our economy, and our environment. I am es-
pecially disappointed that this process has not
afforded all Members of Congress a real op-
portunity to debate, amend, or improve this
text before final passage.
If we have learned anything from the nega-
tive impacts of NAFTA and other free trade
agreements, let it be that all Americans and all
American workers deserve thoughtful, secure,
and truly enforceable trade agreements.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in strong support of H.R. 5430, the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implemen-
tation Act. This legislation ratifies the USMCA,
an update to the North American Free Trade
Agreement agreed to by the governments of
the United States, Canada and Mexico last
year.
Over the past year, House Democrats have
made the USMCA a better deal for the Amer-
ican people. New provisions in this trade
agreement improve the original language by
strengthening provisions related to labor and
the environment. Most importantly, House
Democrats fought hard to ensure Congress
kept its authority to address the rising costs of
prescription drugs by stripping out a giveaway
to the pharmaceutical industry that would have
locked in high prices for biologics across North
America.
As the dean of the Texas Congressional
Delegation, I know how important trade is to
my state. This is an issue that unites Demo-
crats and Republicans across Texas. When-
ever trade is brought up, everyone pays atten-
tion because it’s one of the drivers of our
economy. In North Texas, Canada is one of
our largest trading partners, and many goods
that are transferred between the three coun-
tries in this agreement make their way through
North Texas either on our highways, through
the DFW International Airport, or through the
Union Pacific Dallas International Terminal In-
land Port in my district. While the energy sec-
tor created jobs and built the economy in
North Texas, NAFTA and other trade agree-
ments have only made our economy stronger.
Last year, I invited Ambassador Lighthizer
to speak to the Texas Congressional Delega-
tion about the USMCA and the profound im-
pact it would have on our state. Ambassador
Lighthizer and his staff at the office of the
United States Trade Representative held simi-
lar meetings with other congressional delega-
tions and working groups so that they could
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.034 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12269
December 19, 2019
understand all points of view on this agree-
ment. Their willingness to work tirelessly
alongside House Democrats to make this
agreement a better deal for the American peo-
ple deserves recognition.
Mr. Speaker, trade policy shouldn’t be an
issue that divides the members of this cham-
ber on partisan or regional lines. We see here
today what can be done when both sides
come together to advance the causes of
American workers, farmers and consumers. I
strongly urge my colleagues to vote for this
bill.
Mr. HOLDING. Mr. Speaker, it has been
over a year since President Trump success-
fully negotiated the United States-Mexico-Can-
ada Agreement.
This is a good deal that will benefit every
corner of the country. USMCA will empower
businesses of all sizes to grow and create
jobs, and it is a substantial improvement over
NAFTA.
Mr. Speaker, as it turns out this week is the
116th Anniversary of the Wright Brothers mak-
ing the first flight in a powered aircraft. As we
all know, the Wright Brothers were innovators
and they traveled to North Carolina for this
historic achievement.
To this day, North Carolina continues to at-
tract the world’s most creative and innovative
workforce. One prime example is the enor-
mous amount of pharmaceutical research that
takes place. Lifesaving drugs are being made
in my back yard and the world is better off for
it.
This Administration was successful in get-
ting Mexico and Canada to raise their exclu-
sivity protections for cutting-edge biologic
drugs. This was a monumental achievement. It
is incredibly disappointing that Democrats
sought to weaken these standards and ac-
tively worked against American innovators.
These standards would have protected the
hard work that is done by our health care in-
dustry as they work to come up with new
cures and save more lives.
By striping these protections from the final
agreement—Congressional Democrats have
effectively kneecapped the dedicated sci-
entists, doctors and manufacturers working
around the clock to develop new cures.
I have a tough time understanding why
American lawmakers would actively advocate
against the interest of American companies
trying to do business abroad.
Ensuring that American innovators’ rights
are protected in Mexico and Canada would
have had no impact on drug pricing. The
Ways and Means Committee has been over
that topic before, and to insinuate that there is
a correlation between protecting our inventions
in Mexico and higher drug prices in the U.S.
is disingenuous.
While I support the USMCA, the absence of
these protections is a missed opportunity and
we should do better.
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico.
Mr. Speaker, trade with Canada and Mexico is
a crucial component of our economy. Last
year, the U.S. exported just over $565 billion
in goods to these two nations. It is estimated
that approximately 12 million American jobs
rely on North American trade.
Our Nation’s trade partnership with Canada
and Mexico is particularly important for our
state and local economies. In Puerto Rico, for
example, exports to these two countries to-
taled $1.38 billion in 2018. This represents an
increase of 161 percent from pre-NAFTA lev-
els in 1993, when exports from the Island to
Canada and Mexico totaled just $528.8 mil-
lion.
Our economy clearly requires that we pre-
serve and strengthen U.S. trade ties with Can-
ada and Mexico. To achieve this, we must
pass the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, or
USMCA.
USMCA would not only ensure that U.S.
manufacturers, farmers, and service providers
can continue to access the Canadian and
Mexican markets, but it would also rebalance
and modernize NAFTA—our outdated trade
agreement—into a 21st century, high-standard
trade deal.
For instance, USMCA creates a new digital
trade chapter and includes provisions to
strengthen intellectual property (IP) protections
critical to driving innovation. This is particularly
important for jurisdictions like Puerto Rico,
which is the top U.S. exporter of pharma-
ceutical and medicine products.
USMCA similarly seeks to level the playing
field for workers by including enforceable labor
standards. It is also the first trade agreement
with a chapter focusing specifically on small
and medium-sized businesses to help them
grow and reach new markets.
The U.S. International Trade Commission
estimates that USMCA would boost GDP by
$68.2 billion and would add roughly 176,000
jobs.
USMCA is a clear win for our Nation.
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of the United States-Mexico-Can-
ada Agreement (USMCA) negotiated by Presi-
dent Trump which will generate new economic
opportunities for Pennsylvania workers and
families.
Thanks to President Trump’s economic poli-
cies, earlier this year, Pennsylvania’s unem-
ployment hit an all-time low of 3.8 percent. In
his first two years in office, the president fos-
tered job and wage growth by enacting the
largest tax reform in 31 years and cutting bur-
densome regulations that handcuffed Pennsyl-
vania employers. But it’s the USMCA, his re-
write of the North American Free Trade Agree-
ment, that promises to be an even greater
boon for my state’s economy and the nation.
Pennsylvania is uniquely positioned to ben-
efit from the USMCA given our strong ties with
Canada and Mexico. In 2017 alone, Pennsyl-
vania exported over $10 billion worth of goods
to Canada and over $4 billion worth of goods
to Mexico. Nearly 500,000 jobs across the
state are supported by U.S. trade with our
North American neighbors. By removing the
red tape required to trade, we can empower
job creators to grow their businesses and hire
even more workers.
Importantly, the USMCA improves access to
international markets for many of the indus-
tries that drive our state’s economy. Pennsyl-
vania farmers currently export over $1 billion
in goods each year to Canada and Mexico.
This agreement creates even more export op-
portunities by eliminating Canada’s protec-
tionist dairy program and opening access for
chicken and egg exports.
U.S. manufacturing is another key sector
that will enjoy new protections under the
USMCA. The deal includes stronger rules of
origin, meaning more goods and materials, in-
cluding Pennsylvania steel, will be manufac-
tured in the U.S. Further, the agreement puts
in place new enforceable labor standards to
level the playing field for American workers
and includes new commitments to address
non-tariff barriers that currently hinder trade.
The USMCA also includes, for the first time
ever, a chapter dedicated to digital trade. I ap-
plaud the administration’s work to promote
digital trade and protect the intellectual prop-
erty of American innovators. In my district
alone, nearly 1,000 people are employed by
the movie and television industry and rely on
this work to pay their bills and feed their fami-
lies. It is critical that we build upon the
strengths and accomplishments of the USMCA
and ensure future trade deals leave adequate
space for Congress to work together with the
president and American creators to reform and
update current copyright laws, including Sec-
tion 512 of the Digital Millennium Copyright
Act, which was written in 1998 and has not
kept up with the times. Future trade deals
should exclude this provision so that Congress
can work in a bipartisan manner to ensure
U.S. law better protects the creative profes-
sionals living in my district and across the na-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, President Trump has already
fostered an economic resurgence through his
pro-growth policies, and the USMCA will fur-
ther that progress. I am proud to support
USMCA today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to the order of the House of
December 16, 2019, the previous ques-
tion is ordered.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. NEAL. Mr Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Byrd, one of its clerks, announced that
the Senate has passed without amend-
ment bills of the House of the following
titles:
H.R. 777. An Act to reauthorize programs
authorized under the Debbie Smith Act of
2004.
H.R. 3196. An Act to designate the Large
Synoptic Survey Telescope as the ‘‘Vera C.
Rubin Observatory’’.
The message also announced that the
Senate has passed bills of the following
titles in which the concurrence of the
House is requested:
S. 153. An Act to promote veteran involve-
ment in STEM education, computer science,
and scientific research, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2774. An Act to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral to establish and carry out a Veteran
Treatment Court Program.
S. 3105. An Act to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:42 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12270 December 19, 2019
456 North Meridian Street in Indianapolis,
Indiana, as the ‘‘Richard G. Lugar Post Of-
fice’’.
The message also announced that the
Senate has agreed to a concurrent reso-
lution of the following title in which
the concurrence of the House is re-
quested:
S. CON. RES. 31. Concurrent resolution rec-
ognizing the importance and significance of
the 2020 Census and encouraging individuals,
families, and households across the United
States to participate in the 2020 Census to
ensure a complete and accurate count.
The message also announced that
pursuant to Public Law 105–292, as
amended by Public Law 106–55, Public
Law 107–228, and Public Law 112–75, the
Chair, on behalf of the President pro
tempore, upon the recommendation of
the Democratic Leader, appoints the
following individual to the United
States Commission on International
Religious Freedom:
Rabbi Sharon A. Kleinbaum of New
York vice Ahmed M. Khawaja of Cali-
fornia.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess for a pe-
riod of less than 15 minutes.
Accordingly (at 1 o’clock and 29 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1345
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. HIGGINS of New York) at
1 o’clock and 45 minutes p.m.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 1 o’clock and 45 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1407
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts)
at 2 o’clock and 7 minutes p.m.
f
RESTORING TAX FAIRNESS FOR
STATES AND LOCALITIES ACT
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, pursuant to House
Resolution 772, I call up the bill (H.R.
5377) to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to modify the limitation
on deduction of State and local taxes,
and for other purposes, and ask for its
immediate consideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 772, the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, printed in
the bill, is adopted and the bill, as
amended, is considered read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 5377
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Restoring Tax
Fairness for States and Localities Act’’.
SEC. 2. ELIMINATION FOR 2019 OF MARRIAGE
PENALTY IN LIMITATION ON DEDUC-
TION OF STATE AND LOCAL TAXES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 164(b) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding
at the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(7) SPECIAL RULE FOR LIMITATION ON INDI-
VIDUAL DEDUCTIONS FOR 2019.—In the case of a
taxable year beginning after December 31, 2018,
and before January 1, 2020, paragraph (6) shall
be applied by substituting ‘($20,000 in the case
of a joint return)’ for ‘($5,000 in the case of a
married individual filing a separate return)’.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by this section shall apply to taxable years be-
ginning after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 3. ELIMINATION FOR 2020 AND 2021 OF LIMI-
TATION ON DEDUCTION OF STATE
AND LOCAL TAXES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 164(b)(6)(B) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by in-
serting ‘‘in the case of a taxable year beginning
before January 1, 2020, or after December 31,
2021,’’ before ‘‘the aggregate amount of taxes’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
164(b)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘For purposes of subparagraph
(B)’’ and inserting ‘‘For purposes of this sec-
tion’’,
(2) by striking ‘‘January 1, 2018’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘January 1, 2022’’,
(3) by striking ‘‘December 31, 2017, shall’’ and
inserting ‘‘December 31, 2021, shall’’, and
(4) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘For
purposes of this section, in the case of State or
local taxes with respect to any real or personal
property paid during a taxable year beginning
in 2020 or 2021, the Secretary shall prescribe
rules which treat all or a portion of such taxes
as paid in a taxable year or years other than
the taxable year in which actually paid as nec-
essary or appropriate to prevent the avoidance
of the limitations of this subsection.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to taxes paid or ac-
crued in taxable years beginning after December
31, 2019.
SEC. 4. INCREASE IN DEDUCTION FOR CERTAIN
EXPENSES OF ELEMENTARY AND
SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS.
(a) INCREASE.—Section 62(a)(2)(D) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
striking ‘‘$250’’ and inserting ‘‘$500’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section
62(d)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘2015’’ and inserting ‘‘2019’’,
(2) by striking ‘‘$250’’ and inserting ‘‘$500’’,
and
(3) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘2014’’
and inserting ‘‘2018’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to taxable years be-
ginning after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 5. ABOVE-THE-LINE DEDUCTION ALLOWED
FOR CERTAIN EXPENSES OF FIRST
RESPONDERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 62(a)(2) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding
at the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(F) CERTAIN EXPENSES OF FIRST RESPOND-
ERS.—The deductions allowed by section 162
which consist of expenses, not in excess of $500,
paid or incurred by a first responder—
‘‘(i) as tuition or fees for the participation of
the first responder in professional development
courses related to service as a first responder, or
‘‘(ii) for uniforms used by the first responder
in service as a first responder.’’.
(b) FIRST RESPONDER DEFINED.—Section 62(d)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended
by adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(4) FIRST RESPONDER.—For purposes of sub-
section (a)(2)(F), the term ‘first responder’
means, with respect to any taxable year, any in-
dividual who is employed as a law enforcement
officer, firefighter, paramedic, or emergency
medical technician for at least 1000 hours during
such taxable year.’’.
(c) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—Section 62(d)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amend-
ed by section 4, is further amended by striking
‘‘the $500 amount in subsection (a)(2)(D)’’ and
inserting ‘‘the $500 amount in each of subpara-
graphs (D) and (F) of subsection (a)(2)’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to taxable years be-
ginning after December 31, 2019.
SEC. 6. INCREASE OF TOP MARGINAL INDIVIDUAL
INCOME TAX RATE UNDER TEM-
PORARY RULES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The tables contained in sub-
paragraphs (A), (B), (C), (D), and (E) of section
1(j)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 are
each amended by striking ‘‘37%’’ and inserting
‘‘39.6%’’ and—
(1) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘$600,000’’ each place such
term appears and inserting ‘‘$479,000’’, and
(B) by striking ‘‘$161,379’’ and inserting
‘‘$119,029’’,
(2) in subparagraph (B)—
(A) by striking ‘‘$500,000’’ each place such
term appears and inserting ‘‘$452,400’’, and
(B) by striking ‘‘$149,298’’ and inserting
‘‘$132,638’’,
(3) in subparagraph (C)—
(A) by striking ‘‘$500,000’’ each place such
term appears and inserting ‘‘$425,800’’, and
(B) by striking ‘‘$150,689.50’’ and inserting
‘‘$124,719.50’’, and
(4) in subparagraph (D)—
(A) by striking ‘‘$300,000’’ each place such
term appears and inserting ‘‘$239,500’’, and
(B) by striking ‘‘$80,689.50’’ and inserting
‘‘$59,514.50’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 1(j)(4)(B)(iii) of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding subclause (I), by
striking ‘‘37 percent’’ and inserting ‘‘39.6 per-
cent’’,
(B) in subclause (II), by striking ‘‘37-percent
bracket’’ and inserting ‘‘39.6-percent bracket’’,
and
(C) in the heading, by striking ‘‘37-PERCENT
BRACKET’’ and inserting ‘‘39.6-PERCENT BRACK-
ET’’.
(2) Section 1(j)(4)(C) of such Code is amend-
ed—
(A) in clause (i)(II), by striking ‘‘paragraph
(5)(B)(i)(IV)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph
(5)(B)(iv)’’, and
(B) by amending clause (ii) to read as follows:
‘‘(ii) the amount which would (without regard
to this paragraph) be taxed at a rate below 39.6
percent shall not be more than the sum of—
‘‘(I) the earned taxable income of such child,
plus
‘‘(II) the maximum dollar amount for the 35-
percent rate bracket for estates and trusts.’’.
(3) The heading of section 1(j)(5) of such Code
is amended to read as follows: ‘‘APPLICATION OF
ZERO PERCENT CAPITAL GAIN RATE BRACKETS’’.
(4) Subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section
1(j)(5) of such Code are amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (h)(1)(B)(i)
shall be applied by substituting ‘below the max-
imum zero rate amount’ for ‘which would (with-
out regard to this paragraph) be taxed at a rate
below 25 percent’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:42 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H19DE9.REC H19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12271
December 19, 2019
‘‘(B) MAXIMUM ZERO RATE AMOUNT DE-
FINED.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the
term ‘maximum zero rate amount’ means—
‘‘(i) in the case of a joint return or surviving
spouse, $77,200,
‘‘(ii) in the case of an individual who is a
head of household (as defined in section 2(b)),
$51,700,
‘‘(iii) in the case of any other individual
(other than an estate or trust), an amount equal
to 1⁄2 of the amount in effect for the taxable year
under clause (i), and
‘‘(iv) in the case of an estate or trust, $2,600.’’.
(5) Section 1(j)(5)(C) of such Code is amended
by striking ‘‘clauses (i) and (ii) of’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply to taxable years be-
ginning after December 31, 2019.
(d) SECTION 15 NOT TO APPLY.—Section 15 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall not
apply to any change in a rate of tax by reason
of any amendment made by this section.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill
shall be debatable for 1 hour equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
The gentleman from California (Mr.
THOMPSON) and the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. BRADY) each will control 30
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent that all Members have 5 legisla-
tive days to revise and extend their re-
marks and to insert in the RECORD ex-
traneous material on this bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of H.R. 5377, the Restoring Tax
Fairness for States and Localities Act.
This bill would temporarily repeal the
SALT cap in order to restore fairness
in our tax code and provide Congress
time to develop more comprehensive
tax reform.
The current cap on the State and
local tax deduction reflects the sloppy
and cynical nature of the 2017 Repub-
lican tax bill. This bill was hastily
rammed through Congress in just 51
days without a hearing, without an op-
portunity to hear from State and local
governments, and without an oppor-
tunity to hear from teachers or first
responders.
Republicans decided from the begin-
ning, from behind closed doors, to in-
clude a cap on SALT deductions in
order to help finance their tax cuts for
corporations and the rich.
In my home State, California, aver-
age SALT deductions are $20,448. A
total of 6.5 million California families,
or 35.6 percent of tax filers, claimed the
deduction in 2017.
The double taxation of earnings peo-
ple have already paid in State and local
taxes inhibit State and local govern-
ments’ ability to fund even the most
vital of programs, including emergency
services and public education.
H.R. 5377 fixes this problem by re-
storing the longstanding tax precedent
that protects State and local govern-
ments’ ability to raise revenue to fund
these services. And this fix doesn’t add
a single dime to the deficit.
Furthermore, this bill provides tax
relief to the middle-class public serv-
ants left behind by the Republican tax
bill by doubling the out-of-pocket de-
duction for teachers, classroom ex-
penses, and creating a new deduction
for expenses for first responders. In
2017, 354,990 teachers in California
claimed the educator expense deduc-
tion, and they will all get double under
this bill.
The short-sightedness of the SALT
cap had further consequences for mid-
dle-class taxpayers in high-tax States:
Capping the SALT deduction dimin-
ished the incentive for middle-class
taxpayers to claim tax benefits that
encourage homeownership and chari-
table deductions. By limiting the
SALT deduction and raising the stand-
ard deduction, fewer middle-class tax-
payers benefit from taking the mort-
gage interest deduction and charitable
giving deductions.
Homeownership is an important way
for middle-class families to build
wealth. Eliminating incentives for
charitable giving undermines local
charities that rely on donations from
middle-class members of their commu-
nities.
I think my colleagues from both
sides of the aisle can agree that these
are the types of behavior we should be
encouraging through our tax code. This
bill reverses the Republicans’ actions
to undercut these middle-class benefits
to finance tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans.
Finally, this bill isn’t about cutting
taxes for high earners. This bill is
about tax fairness, ensuring that tax-
payers are not double-taxed by being
required to pay Federal income tax on
earnings they pay in State and local
taxes and appeals to the core tenets of
our federalist system.
In the spirit of tax fairness, this bill
is responsibly offset by restoring the
top marginal rate back to 39.6 percent
for the highest income bracket.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BRADY of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Madam Speaker, this bill is a tax cut
for the wealthy and a green light for
State and local politicians to raise
taxes on local families even higher.
The Center for American Progress
and the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities are liberal organizations I
don’t generally agree with, but today, I
have to say I do.
The Center for American Progress
has made it plain. They said repealing
the SALT cap shouldn’t be a high pri-
ority, in fact, that this is overwhelm-
ingly a tax cut for the rich.
The Center on Budget and Policy Pri-
orities agrees. They said repealing the
SALT cap, what Democrats are pro-
posing to do today, is regressive and
overwhelmingly benefits high-income
households. And they go further and
say this is little help to the middle
class.
b 1415
It is a sad day when it is obvious to
everyone but Democrats that they are
championing a huge tax cut for mil-
lionaires and billionaires, while the
middle class in America get zip.
Today we debate their insistence on
hiking taxes on Main Street businesses
across America to pay for their mas-
sive tax windfall for the wealthy 1 per-
cent.
You think your local property taxes
are high now? This legislation is a
starter pistol for a new race among
State and local leaders.
Who of them will be first to raise
property taxes, sales taxes, and income
taxes even higher on working families
and local businesses?
These unpopular local taxes, frankly,
are brutal enough.
This bill truly is a tax cut for the
few.
According to the liberal Tax Policy
Center, only 1 percent of taxpayers in
America paid more taxes last year due
to the reasonable SALT cap, 1 percent;
in California, only 2; in New York, a
mere 3.
The rest of taxpayers in America ei-
ther received a tax cut or they broke
even. That is because the Republican
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act lowered taxes
on income across the board. We dou-
bled the child tax deduction and ex-
panded it to far more families. We dou-
bled the standard deduction so more
working families keep more of what
they earn. We eliminated the alter-
native minimum tax for households
making less than $1 million.
This was important, because more
and more families, including in high-
tax States, especially in high-tax
States, found the AMT canceled out
their charitable and SALT deductions
completely.
Another myth that has been de-
bunked is that tax reform hurts State
budgets. It is just the opposite.
Many States across America enjoyed
a windfall in new revenues, an average
of 6 percent, with stronger economies,
more workers, and an expanded tax
base.
California Governor Gavin Newsom
wrongly predicted capping SALT would
result in lower revenues for California.
In truth, his State brought in a whop-
ping $3 billion more in personal income
taxes than he predicted. It was the
same story in all the high-tax States,
including New Jersey.
So the question is, what did these
States do with their windfall? Did they
pocket these extra dollars or did they
pass them through to their families
and local businesses by reducing State
and local taxes?
To their credit, 13 States reduced
their SALT tax burden, but not in the
high-tax States, who need it most.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.044 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12272 December 19, 2019
States like New Jersey actually
raised their State and local taxes,
while New York, Illinois, and Massa-
chusetts are debating even higher
SALT taxes.
So if governors, legislators, and may-
ors keep raising local taxes with a
SALT cap, imagine how high they will
raise them without it?
There is a price to be paid from high
State and local taxes. In truth, these
are terrific States with dynamic econo-
mies and really good people. But ac-
cording to MoneyWise.com, the four
States Americans are fleeing from the
most are New Jersey, New York, Con-
necticut, and Illinois.
Millennials, young people, are doing
the same, but you can add California to
that list. These young people love their
States, with good reason, but they just
can’t see a future there with high taxes
and impossibly high costs.
In the end, though, why should low-
tax States be forced, through the tax
code, to subsidize high-tax States?
Why should a farmer in Nebraska
subsidize a banker in Manhattan?
Why should a single mom in New Jer-
sey or a janitor in a building who
doesn’t itemize their taxes subsidize
the billionaire in the penthouse who
does?
LeBron James, an iconic athlete, leg-
endary really, of the Lakers, he will re-
ceive an estimated $2.4 million tax
break next year because of the Demo-
crats’ bill, but the janitor and the beer
vendor in Staples Center, they get
nothing.
Gerrit Cole, a former Astros, is going
to the Yankees as their new ace. He
will get an estimated $850,000 next
year, but that parking lot attendant at
Yankee Stadium gets nothing.
That is what this bill does, because
more than half of the SALT deduction
goes to millionaire and billionaire
households.
Madam Speaker, the SALT cap of
$10,000 is higher than the national aver-
age of SALT deductions, and because of
Republican lawmakers in high-tax
States, who weighed in aggressively
during tax reform, it can be used for
property, sales, or income taxes. And
the AMT, which is worth up to $10,000
in tax breaks, was eliminated.
Thanks to pro-growth tax reform,
our U.S. economy has roared into gear
as the most competitive economy on
the planet, with the lowest unemploy-
ment in half a century, paychecks in-
creasing the fastest in more than a dec-
ade, wage growth outpacing inflation
by $1,000 a year for average working
families, American manufacturing is
back, and we have a million more job
openings than workers.
America is once again a land of op-
portunity.
Placing a cap on the SALT deduction
to let middle-class families—not the
wealthy—keep more of what they
earned is a crucial component of
achieving this economic victory for
American workers and their families.
That old, broken, regressive SALT
tax break for the wealthy has no place
in a fair, modern tax code, and the
positive growth in America since its re-
moval is a clear demonstration of that
fact.
One final thing: We often hear that
limiting the SALT deduction is double-
taxation and unconstitutional. The
courts and tax policy experts have de-
bunked these myths.
We hear a lot about moocher States,
but the only moochers in this debate
are the State and local politicians who
think it is their money, and they are
mooching off the backs of hardworking
families and small businesses in high-
tax States.
I know my Democrat colleagues are
sincere in this effort. But with this
bill, you have officially claimed the
mantel ‘‘party of the rich.’’
Madam Speaker, I strongly urge all
my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on this bill.
And, again, I offer this: Republicans
are committed to working with Demo-
crats to make our tax code even more
competitive, to make our economy
even stronger, and to never stop work-
ing to help the little guy in the middle
class, and giving tax breaks to billion-
aires, encouraging States to raise their
taxes even more is not the way to do it.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I just want to point
out that the irony of my friend’s testi-
mony today, my friend from Texas’ tes-
timony, shouldn’t be lost on any of us.
Remember, it was the Republicans
that created this problem with their
tax bill. They did a tax bill that bene-
fited corporations and the wealthiest
people in the country, and then to say
that somehow they are protecting reg-
ular folks is really laughable.
That tax cut cost us, in the debt, $2.3
trillion.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from New Jersey (Ms.
SHERRILL).
Ms. SHERRILL. Madam Speaker, I
thank my colleague, the gentleman
from California (Mr. THOMPSON), for
yielding.
I rise today to defend the taxpayers
of our country, people who believe in a
strong America with great schools and
great infrastructure.
Madam Speaker, I launched ‘‘12 Days
of SALT’’ last week to urge this House
to lift the 2017 tax bill’s $10,000 cap on
the State and local tax deduction.
Today is the 11th day of SALT. I have
been on the floor for 11 days to talk
about this. This is an issue of tax fair-
ness, with people investing in their
communities, in schools, and in infra-
structure only to face double-taxation
as the Federal Government punishes
these efforts.
The 2017 tax bill was an attack on
New Jersey taxpayers. New Jersey al-
ready sends more money to Wash-
ington and gets back less than nearly
every State in the country.
Our bill will put money back in the
pockets of our residents and commu-
nities, and not just in New Jersey. This
bill provides relief for 13.1 million
Americans.
It also doubles the deduction for
teachers’ out-of-pocket expenses and
creates a new deduction for first re-
sponders to offset work-related costs.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support tax relief to support
our teachers and first responders and
pass this bill.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield
the balance of my time to the gen-
tleman from Nebraska (Mr. SMITH), the
Republican leader of the Tax Policy
Subcommittee, and I ask unanimous
consent that he may control that time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself as much time
as I may consume.
I must admit, I am a bit puzzled
today as to why we are here for this
bill. Our work in the House is almost
done for the year.
We have funded the Federal Govern-
ment and extended expiring programs
like flood insurance. We are about to
pass USMCA with a record vote. Our
Democratic colleagues can go home
and celebrate that they voted to make
history in impeaching the President.
But apparently, before we go home
for Christmas, we also need to give
Ebenezer Scrooge a tax cut, even
though we know the Senate won’t take
up the bill.
Before we get into the problems with
today’s bill, we should review the
positives of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,
which this bill seeks to undermine.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act lowered
tax rates for all Americans and in-
creased the child tax credit.
We doubled the standard deduction
from $6,000 for individuals and $12,000
for married couples to $12,000 for indi-
viduals and $24,000 for couples.
And to help ensure Federal tax policy
doesn’t reward States and cities for
raising their taxes sky high, we insti-
tuted a $10,000, very thoughtful, cap on
State and local tax deductions to en-
sure Americans in low-tax States don’t
pay an unfair share of Federal taxes.
Thanks to the combination of lower
rates, larger child tax credit, and high-
er standard deduction under TCJA, for
example, a single mom with two kids
doesn’t pay a penny in Federal income
tax until her income exceeds $53,000.
In other words, we ensure that that
mom doesn’t owe Federal income tax
until her income exceeds not just $15
an hour, but $25 per hour.
For Americans who do pay income
tax, the higher standard deduction
means 29 million more households had
their tax returns simplified because
they could take the standard deduction
instead of itemizing.
How does the majority propose to im-
prove our tax code today? Not by sim-
plifying the code or ensuring our tax
code is more equitable, but by passing
a temporary—emphasis on ‘‘tem-
porary’’—tax cut, which largely bene-
fits people with incomes between—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.062 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12273
December 19, 2019
please, listen—$200,000 and $1 million
per year—perhaps a new definition of
the middle class—paid for by perma-
nently increasing taxes on small busi-
nesses.
Let me say that again. If you make
between $0 and $75,000, this bill does
not give you tax relief, or a tax cut.
If you make between $75,000 and
$200,000, there is a small chance you
could get a small tax cut.
If you make between $200,000 per year
and $1 million per year, you have the
best chance of getting a tax cut.
Madam Speaker, we should continue
working together to find ways to im-
prove the tax code for all Americans.
This bill makes the code both more
complex and less progressive.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
KING), a great public servant and some-
one who has partnered with us on a
number of important issues.
Mr. KING of New York. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Madam Speaker, I stand in strong
support of this legislation. I want to
commend my colleague, Congressman
SUOZZI, for introducing it.
Madam Speaker, I am really dis-
appointed in my Republican col-
leagues. They are raising a class war-
fare argument. They sound like the
progressive left.
The fact is, one of the reasons why
cities like New York and counties like
Nassau and Suffolk have had to raise
their property taxes is because for 50
years, we have been subsidizing other
States.
Seventy percent to 80 percent of the
money we send to the Federal Govern-
ment comes back to us, the rest goes to
other States. So during all these years
when they have been able to develop
using our money, we have had to raise
local taxes, and now they are turning
it into class warfare.
These aren’t millionaires. The people
in my district who are getting screwed
by this are not millionaires. They are
cops, they are firefighters, construc-
tion workers, the people who answered
the call on 9/11.
What they are doing is undermining
the middle class.
What is middle class in other States
may be different from mine.
The reason we are high is because of
the fact we have had to subsidize all
the rest of them for all these years,
sort of like when politicians come to
New York to raise their money and
then go back home and vote against us.
I will say that the strongest advocate
for this—when this was first raised in
1986 in leading to the defeat of the at-
tempt to take away SALT—was Donald
Trump. He said the States that work
the hardest would get hurt the most
because of this.
Now, also let me just say—and I will
end on this—that we have subsidized
other States long enough. We are ask-
ing for fairness. It is wrong for conserv-
atives to be talking about having a tax
on a tax.
Madam Speaker, I urge passage of
this bill to have some equity in the tax
code.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I include in the RECORD a se-
ries of statements in opposition to H.R.
5377 from Americans for Tax Reform,
Americans for Prosperity, National
Taxpayers Union, Heritage Action, and
Parity for Main Street Employers.
KEY VOTE: ATR URGES NO VOTE ON H.R. 5377,
A PLEDGE VIOLATION
Posted by Alex Hendrie on Wednesday,
December 18th, 2019, 3:00 PM PERMALINK
The House of Representatives is set to vote
on H.R. 5377, the ‘‘Restoring Tax Fairness for
States and Localities Act.’’
ATR urges a ‘‘NO’’ vote.
This legislation is a violation of the Tax-
payer Protection Pledge, a commitment
made by 218 members in the House and Sen-
ate to oppose any and all net tax increases.
If passed into law, it will raise taxes on in-
dividuals and small businesses that file
through the individual income tax system.
This bill trades a temporary rollback of the
SALT cap for a permanent rate hike.
This legislation is a net tax increase of $2.4
billion over the ten-year budget window, ac-
cording to the Congressional Budget Office.
H.R. 5377 also rolls back the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act, passed by Republicans and signed
into law by President Trump.
‘‘The Trump tax cuts reduced taxes across
the board. This legislation is step one toward
abolishing the entire Trump tax cuts and in-
creasing taxes on the middle class, a key
goal of every Democrat presidential can-
didate,’’ said Grover Norquist, President of
Americans for Tax Reform.
The legislation raises the cap on the state
and local tax deduction from $10,000 to
$20,000 for 2019 and removes the cap entirely
for 2020 and 2021.
The legislation also raises the top rate
from 37 to 39.6% and lowers the threshold
that this top rate kicks in for all filing
statuses.
Under current law, the 37 percent bracket
kicks in for a single filer at $518,400 in in-
come. Under the legislation, the new top rate
is increased to 39.6 percent and the threshold
is lowered to $441,475 of income.
Similarly, a family taking the married fil-
ing jointly status currently hits the 37 per-
cent bracket at $622,050 in income. Under the
legislation, this family will hit the 39.6
bracket at $496,000 in income.
REPEALING OR ROLLING BACK THE SALT CAP IS
REGRESSIVE
94 percent of the benefits from repealing
the SALT cap would go to taxpayers making
more than $200,000 a year.
The left leaning Center for Budget and Pol-
icy Priorities has stated that this proposal
would be ‘‘regressive and costly.’’
The Center for American Progress has
stated that repeal of the SALT cap ‘‘should
not be a top priority’’ as it would ‘‘over-
whelmingly benefit the wealthy, not the
middle class.’’
Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) recently
criticized efforts to repeal the SALT cap not-
ing that it runs counter to Democrat ideals:
‘‘We can say we’re for a progressive tax bill
and for fighting inequality, or we can sup-
port the SALT deduction, but it’s really hard
to do both of those things.’’
REPEALING OR ROLLING BACK THE SALT CAP IS
ALSO UNNECESSARY
While Democrats claim the SALT cap
raised taxes, this is overstated and mis-
leading.
The TCJA reduced taxes for roughly 90 per-
cent of Americans and for taxpayers at every
income level through lower rates, the ex-
panded standard deduction, and the doubling
of the child tax credit.
Furthermore, repeal of the Alternative
Minimum Tax meant that 4.5 million fami-
lies were able to claim $10,000 in SALT de-
ductions, as the AMT disallowed this deduc-
tion.
The SALT deduction subsidizes high tax,
big government states. This deduction is
rarely used by middle class families as they
take the standard deduction instead of
itemizing. Capping this deduction has meant
that the federal government is no longer pro-
viding a benefit to upper income earners in
blue states.
ATR urges a NO vote on this regressive
legislation that violates the Taxpayer Pro-
tection Pledge.
AFP KEY VOTE ALERT: VOTE NO ON H.R. 5377,
THE RESTORING TAX FAIRNESS FOR STATES
AND LOCALITIES ACT
DECEMBER 16, 2019
DEAR REPRESENTATIVES: On behalf of
Americans for Prosperity activists across
America, I urge you to vote NO on H.R. 5377,
the Restoring Tax Fairness for States and
Localities Act.
This vote may be recorded in our 2019 ses-
sion legislative scorecard.
H.R. 5377 would temporarily undo some of
the many benefits of the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act. Temporarily increasing the cap on the
SALT deduction (from $10,000 to $20,000)
would make the tax code less fair and more
complex, but also increase bad incentives for
state and local governments to raise taxes.
The benefits of lifting the SALT cap would
go to states with higher tax levels. Mean-
while, states with lower tax levels, like Flor-
ida and Texas, will be once again forced to
subsidize the federal tax tab for states like
New York, California, and New Jersey.
Moreover, H.R. 5377 would temporarily
raise the top tax rate on the highest earners
and increase the number of taxpayers paying
that rate—one of the very groups that will
benefit from lifting the SALT cap. This
makes no sense.
For these reasons, we urge you to vote NO
on H.R. 5377.
Sincerely,
BRENT GARDNER,
Chief Government Affairs Officer,
Americans for Prosperity.
[From the National Taxpayers Union, Dec.
19, 2019]
National Taxpayers Union urges all Rep-
resentatives to vote ‘‘NO’’ on H.R. 5377, the
‘‘Restoring Tax Fairness for States and Lo-
calities Act.’’ This legislation would undo
some of the many benefits of the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act (TCJA), raise taxes on small
businesses across the country, and add to the
complexity of the federal tax code.
Enacted in 2017, the TCJA made several
important changes to the individual side of
the federal tax code. By significantly reduc-
ing income tax rates and increasing the
standard deduction, the tax code is fairer
and simpler than before. TCJA rightly re-
formed many deductions and credits to re-
duce the complexity of the tax code, notably
by capping the State and Local Tax (SALT)
deduction. Prior to tax reform, the tax code
allowed taxpayers to deduct an unlimited
amount of state and income and property
taxes from their federal tax liability. As a
result, many low-tax states were forced to
subsidize the choices of high tax states.
This legislation, however, would reverse
these positive alterations to the tax code by
increasing the top marginal tax rate, low-
ering the threshold for which this rate kicks
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.063 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12274 December 19, 2019
in, and scrapping the cap on the SALT de-
duction. Most concerningly, the effects of
uncapping SALT would disproportionately
benefit the wealthiest of our society. Accord-
ing to IRS data from tax year 2015, over 84
percent of the benefit of the SALT deduction
went towards those with incomes above
$100,000. A mere 3.5 percent went to those
with income levels below $50,000. While some
middle class taxpayers would see benefit
from this change, nearly all the benefit
would be for those at the very top of the in-
come scale.
Ensuring all taxpayers keep more of their
hard earned dollars was a priority of the
TCJA, which is why only one percent of tax-
payers paid more in tax under the reformed
tax system. However, giving a tax break to
the wealthiest among us, paid for by an in-
crease in the tax liability of small busi-
nesses, is not a good use of taxpayer dollars.
Many states have adopted pro-taxpayer re-
forms due to TCJA and the SALT cap, so we
should not reverse course now.
Roll call votes on H.R. 5377 will be signifi-
cantly-weighted in NTU’s annual Rating of
Congress and a ‘‘NO’’ vote will be considered
the pro-taxpayer position.
[From Heritage Action for America, Dec. 18,
2019]
CONGRESS SHOULD REJECT HANDOUTS FOR
HIGH-TAX STATE
WASHINGTON.—Heritage Action released
the following statement from Executive Di-
rector Tim Chapman:
The tax bill House Democrats have put on
the schedule this week claims to promote
fairness in the tax code, but it really pro-
motes the interest of liberal states. It is any-
thing but fair. It will only benefit a minority
of Americans at the expense of those who
have chosen to live in states with smaller
tax burdens. SALT deductions are nothing
more than a federal subsidy for high state
and local taxes, which in turn makes individ-
uals in lowtax states responsible for sub-
sidizing more expensive governments else-
where.
With the backdrop of partisan impeach-
ment, House Democratic leadership is des-
perate to hand legislative ‘‘wins’’ to their
members who represent purple districts.
House Republicans should not give them any
cover on this bill. It is nothing but a subsidy
to the most liberal states at the expense of
the rest of the country. Americans should be
treated equally.
PARITY FOR MAIN
STREET EMPLOYERS,
December 10, 2019.
Hon. RICHIE NEAL,
Chairman, Committee on Ways & Means, House
of Representatives,
Washington DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL: The Parity for Main
Street Employers coalition has serious con-
cerns with the ‘‘Restoring Tax Fairness for
States and Localities Act’’ to be considered
by the House Ways and Means Committee to-
morrow.
Individually and family owned businesses
organized as S corporations, partnerships
and sole proprietorships are the heart of the
American economy. They employ the major-
ity of workers, and they contribute the most
to our national income. They also pay the
majority of business taxes. A recent study by
EY found that pass-through businesses pay
51 percent of all business income taxes.
The legislation introduced today would
raise these taxes by 1) increasing the top
rate passthrough businesses pay from the
current 37 percent to 39.6 percent and 2) low-
ering the income threshold of the top rate
from $622,050 to $496,600 (Joint) for the years
2020 through 2025, after which the 37 percent
rate is scheduled to expire under current
law.
This rate hike would be used to offset re-
lief from the SALT deduction cap, including
one year of marriage penalty relief (2020) and
two years of full relief from the cap (2021 and
2022). While this SALT relief will benefit
some pass-through businesses, those savings
will be reserved only for businesses residing
in certain states, while the tax hike will
apply to businesses in all fifty states.
It would also undo a critical balance
achieved in tax reform. The lower individual
income tax rates coupled with the 20-percent
pass-through deduction was designed to
maintain tax parity for passthrough busi-
nesses and the new 21-percent corporate rate.
EY recently reported that tax reform largely
succeeded in this balancing act, but only if
the deduction and the lower individual tax
rates stay in place.
The Parity for Main Street Employers coa-
lition represents millions of individually and
family owned businesses employing tens of
millions of private sector workers in every
community and every industry, including
contractors, engineers, retailers, wholesaler-
distributors, manufacturers and more. On be-
half of these employers, we ask that you re-
consider this legislation.
Sincerely,
American Council of Engineering Compa-
nies, Associated Builders and Contractors,
Associated General Contractors of America,
Independent Community Bankers of Amer-
ica, National Association of Wholesaler-Dis-
tributors, National Beer Wholesalers Asso-
ciation, National Electrical Contractors As-
sociation, National Federation of Inde-
pendent Business, National Roofing Contrac-
tors Association, S Corporation Association,
Wine and Spirits Wholesalers of America.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I yield 6 minutes to the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. RICE),
an expert on tax policy.
b 1430
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, today, I rise in strong opposi-
tion to this partisan bill that would
give millionaires and billionaires a tax
cut and do nothing to help the middle
class.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act brought
prosperity throughout the Nation and
to people of every demographic and
every income level.
Unemployment is at 50-year lows, all-
time lows for African Americans and
Hispanics. American economic growth
remains the envy of the world.
After years of stagnation under the
Obama administration, middle-class
wages are growing at rates not seen in
over a decade. Opportunity has been re-
stored in this land of opportunity.
How did the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
accomplish all this? Primarily, it cut
tax rates for businesses to make them
more competitive in the world, espe-
cially small businesses that employ
two-thirds of American workers.
H.R. 5377 eliminates the $10,000 cap
on the deductibility of State and local
taxes, referred to as the SALT deduc-
tion, and pays for it by raising the top
rate from 37 percent to 39.6 percent.
This, however, is the rate paid by many
of the small business owners that em-
ploy all of those Americans and re-
stored our prosperity. This would abso-
lutely make those businesses less com-
petitive in the world and would dampen
America’s renewed prosperity.
Madam Speaker, even worse, the
$10,000 cap on deductibility of the
SALT deduction is more than suffi-
cient for over 90 percent of Americans.
Lifting this $10,000 cap is a plain tax
cut for the rich.
The Democrats’ constant complaint
about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is
that it was a tax cut for the rich, which
is simply untrue. But today, they pro-
pose to fix it by giving an even bigger,
massive tax cut to the rich. That is
correct, and let me repeat it. They
complain that the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act was a tax cut for the rich, and they
want to fix it by giving an even bigger
tax cut to the rich.
Fifty-two percent of the benefit of re-
pealing the SALT cap goes to income
earners making more than $1 million a
year, 52 percent. Ninety-four percent of
the benefit goes to income earners in
the top 10 percent of wage earners.
Madam Speaker, the Democrats
should stop trying to convince America
that they care about the middle class.
There is an old proverb: I can’t hear
what you are saying because your ac-
tions speak so loudly.
This legislation would be particu-
larly bad for poor and rural areas in
States with low taxes, like Florida and
Texas, which have no State income
taxes. The average SALT deduction in
my home county is $1,800, well below
the $10,000 cap.
We had a hearing where we invited
mayors of affluent townships around
D.C. and in New York State. Their
complaint was that, without the SALT
deduction, they would have difficulty
in raising taxes on their residents.
Madam Speaker, the D.C. suburbs
have the highest household income in
the country. The median household in-
come is over $100,000. I represent Mar-
ion County, South Carolina, one of the
poorest in the State. Fifty-seven per-
cent of its residents are African Amer-
ican. The median household income is
around $30,000, less than a third of that
in the Washington suburbs.
If this SALT cap is lifted, the income
taxes that the poor residents of Marion
County pay, a portion of those will go
to subsidize the housing and the serv-
ices of the well-paid bureaucrats in the
suburbs of D.C.
Their taxes are already used to pay
the salaries of these folks, but now you
would have the poor rural residents
across America, not just Marion Coun-
ty, subsidize their taxes, as well.
Madam Speaker, yesterday, those
across the aisle voted to impeach
President Trump, who has done more
to rebuild the middle class than anyone
since Ronald Reagan. The figures don’t
lie. Today, they introduce a bill that
would give a massive tax break to the
highest wage earners.
This bill would make our tax code
more regressive. It would provide a
huge tax benefit to the 1 percent. This
benefit would increase income inequal-
ity. The Democrats’ actions, Madam
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.049 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12275
December 19, 2019
Speaker, betray their loyalties, and
those loyalties are not to the American
middle class.
Madam Speaker, I encourage all of
my colleagues to think of American
workers and vote ‘‘no’’ on this legisla-
tion that will hurt the middle class.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman for pointing out that our bill is
paid for, unlike the TCJA, and the pay-
for comes from the wealthiest earners.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from Connecticut (Mr.
LARSON), a great member of the Ways
and Means Committee.
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam
Speaker, I rise to strongly support this
bill. I thank the gentleman for his ef-
forts, and especially BILL PASCRELL,
who has been our passionate leader on
the Ways and Means Committee, for
his efforts on this very important
issue.
What a spirit of Christmas is upon us
today. It is great to see the bipartisan-
ship is continuing. I was so happy to
see PETER KING down in the well, talk-
ing about what this means.
I dare say, to my other colleagues, I
would love to have Mr. RICE come and
visit Augie & Ray’s in East Hartford
and have him talk about how billion-
aires are being benefited.
In Connecticut, we used to deduct, on
average, $19,000 in personal property
taxes. Now, we get to deduct $10,000.
Why? So that we could pay 1 percent of
the Nation 83 percent of your tax cut,
which is unpaid for, paid for by work-
ing people.
In our State, we send more money to
the Federal Government than we get in
return.
The basic unfairness, established by
Lincoln back during the Civil War, is
that this is double taxation and espe-
cially hurts the blue-collar workforce
all across this great country, especially
in those States that go out of their way
to pay their own.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. I remind
Members to address their remarks to
the Chair.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I might add that Nebraska,
the State that I represent, actually is
considered to be a donor State, as well,
and there is great support for the
SALT cap in Nebraska.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
SCHWEIKERT).
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
to my friends here, I wasn’t going to
come up here and try to do firebrand or
the theater, but we do have a little mo-
ment of intellectual inconsistency.
Let’s try a quick thought experiment.
We, as a body, my brothers and sis-
ters on the left, you support a progres-
sive tax system, right?
Well, Madam Speaker, if you support
a progressive tax system, then the fact
of the matter is, if you have a high-in-
come earning State community, you
pay more taxes. It is just a little line of
intellectual consistency.
So, you support the wealthier paying
more. What happens when you have a
deduction that you want to put back?
I am sorry, but you know me and
charts; it is a problem. I am working
on a 12-step group to deal with it.
The fact of the matter is, the top 5
percent of income earners get 77 per-
cent of the benefit. You can’t intellec-
tually have it both ways. I mean,
aren’t your brains just exploding, say-
ing: Well, on the one hand, we want
you to give rich people these deduc-
tions, but on the other hand, we want
to tax rich people more, except for this
bill where we want to give the really,
really rich people the benefit.
You are going to get a chance. We are
going to have an MTR. At least, this
way, you can take it away from the
really, really, really, really, really rich
people who make $100 million or more,
saying they don’t get to take the SALT
deduction. We will see what level of
super-rich people we are defending in
this debate.
I understand, from a political stand-
point, you are doing the right thing.
You are doing the work from your dis-
trict. But at least we could be intellec-
tually honest about the math.
If you represent a district that has
high taxes, whether it be the income
taxes or property taxes, coming and de-
fending SALT is fine. It makes sense.
But be honest about what the math
means. If you are a donor State, it is
because you have high incomes. If you
want this, it is because you are defend-
ing your wealthy.
It is just math, and the math, Madam
Speaker, always wins.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair reminds Members to address
their remarks to the Chair.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. BLU-
MENAUER).
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker,
I appreciate the gentleman’s hard work
on this.
This is the largest transfer of wealth
in American history with the tax bill
of the Republicans. They kept the tax
break for corporations and they are
hitting middle class families in my dis-
trict. Four in ten average about $15,000
a year.
But one of the things we haven’t
talked about is the hit to home values.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD an article by Allan Sloan in
Fortune magazine that talks about
Trump’s trillion dollar hit to home-
owners.
TRUMP’S TRILLION-DOLLAR HIT TO
HOMEOWNERS
By reducing deductions for real estate
taxes, Trump’s 2017 tax plan has harmed mil-
lions—and helped give corporations a $680
billion gift.
(by Allan Sloan)
In recent weeks, President Donald Trump
has been talking about plans for, as he put
it, a ‘‘very substantial tax cut for middle in-
come folks who work so hard.’’ But before
Congress embarks on a new tax measure,
people should consider one of the largely
unexamined effects of the last tax bill, which
Trump promised would help the middle class:
Would you believe it has inflicted a trillion
dollars of damage on homeowners—many of
them middle class—throughout the country?
That massive number is the reduction in
home values caused by the 2017 tax law that
capped federal deductions for state and local
real estate and income taxes at $10,000 a year
and also eliminated some mortgage interest
deductions. The impact varies widely across
different areas. Counties with high home
prices and high real estate taxes and where
homeowners have big mortgages are suf-
fering the biggest hit, as you’d expect, given
the larger value of the lost tax deductions.
But as we’ll see, homeowners all over the
country are feeling the effects.
I’m basing my analysis on numbers from
two well-respected people: Mark Zandi, the
chief economist of Moody’s Analytics; and
Hugh Lamle, the retired president of M.D.
Sass, a Wall Street investment management
company.
Zandi’s numbers are broad—macro-math,
as it were. Lamle (pronounced LAM-lee) is a
master of micro-math. It was Lamle who
first got me thinking about home value
losses by sending me an economic model that
he created to show the damage inflicted on
high-end, high-bracket taxpayers in high-tax
areas who paid seven digits or more for their
homes.
Lamle starts with the premise that home-
buyers have typically figured out how much
house they can afford by calculating how
much they can spend on a down payment and
monthly mortgage payment, adjusting the
latter by the amount they’d save via the tax
deduction for mortgage interest and real es-
tate taxes. His model figures out how much
prices would have to drop for the same
monthly payment to cover a given house
now that this notional buyer can’t take ad-
vantage of the real estate tax deduction and
might not be able to take full advantage of
the mortgage interest deduction.
After I showed Lamle’s model to my
ProPublica research partner, Doris Burke,
she steered me to Zandi’s research, which I
realized could be used to calculate national
value-loss numbers.
Ready? Here we go. The broad picture first,
then the specific. This gets a little com-
plicated, so please bear with me.
Zandi says that because of the 2017 tax law,
U.S. house prices overall are about 4% lower
than they’d otherwise be. The next question
is how many dollars of lost home value that
4% translates into. That isn’t so hard to fig-
ure out if you get your hands on the right
numbers.
Let me show you.
The Federal Reserve Board says that as of
March 31, U.S. home values totaled about
$26.1 trillion. Apply Zandi’s 4% number to
that, and you end up with a $1.04 trillion set-
back for the nation’s home owners. That’s
right—a trillion, with a T.
Please note that Zandi isn’t saying that
house prices have fallen by an average of 4%.
That hasn’t happened. What he’s saying is
that on average, house prices are about 4%
lower than they’d otherwise be.
Given that the Fed statistics show that
homeowners’ equity was $15.76 trillion as of
March 31, Zandi’s numbers imply that home-
owners’ equity is down about 6.6% from
where it would otherwise be. (That’s the $1.04
trillion value loss divided by the $15.76 tril-
lion of equity.)
This is a very big deal to families whose
biggest financial asset is the equity they
have in their homes. And there are untold
millions of families in that situation.
While Zandi and I were having the first of
several phone conversations, he sent me a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.066 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12276 December 19, 2019
county-by-county list of the estimated
home-price damage done to about 3,000 coun-
ties throughout the country. I was fas-
cinated—and appalled—to see that the big-
gest estimated value loss in percentage
terms, 11.3%, was in Essex County, New Jer-
sey, the New York City suburb where I live.
In case you’re interested—or just snoopy—
the four other counties that make up the
five biggest-losers list are: Westchester
County, New York, suburban New York City,
11.1%; Union County, New Jersey, which is
adjacent to Essex County, 11.0%; New York
County, the New York City borough of Man-
hattan, 10.4%; and Lake County, Illinois,
suburban Chicago, 9.9%.
You can find Zandi’s county-by-county list
in our Data Store. Eyeball the list, and
you’ll see that counties throughout the
country have home values lower than they
would otherwise be.
Here’s how it works. Zandi took what fi-
nancial techies call the ‘‘present value’’ of
the property tax and mortgage interest de-
ductions that homeowners will lose over
seven years (the average duration of a mort-
gage) because of changes in the tax law and
subtracted it from the value of the typical
house. That results in a 3% decline in na-
tional home values below what they would
otherwise be.
The remaining one percentage point of
value shrinkage, Zandi says, comes from the
higher interest rates that he says will result
from higher federal budget deficits caused by
the tax bill. He estimates that rates on 10-
year Treasury notes, a key benchmark for
mortgage rates, will be 0.2% higher than
they would otherwise be, which in turn will
make mortgage rates 0.2% higher.
Even though interest rates on 10-year
Treasury notes are at or near record lows as
I write this, they would be even lower if the
Treasury were borrowing less than it’s cur-
rently borrowing to cover the higher federal
budget deficits caused by Trump’s tax bill.
If Zandi’s interest-rate take is correct—it’s
true by definition, if you believe in the law
of supply and demand—even homeowners
who aren’t affected by the inability to de-
duct all their real estate taxes and mortgage
interest costs are affected by the tax bill.
How so? Because higher interest rates for
buyers translate into lower prices for sellers
and therefore produce lower values for own-
ers.
You can argue, as some people do, that real
estate taxes should never have been deduct-
ible because allowing that deduction is bad
economic policy that inflated home prices
and favored higher-income people over
lower-income people.
But even if you believe that, there’s no
question that eliminating the deduction for
millions of homeowners inflicted serious fi-
nancial damage on homeowners who had no
warning that a major tax deduction that
they were used to getting would be wiped
out.
As a result, homebuyers who had taken the
value of the real estate tax deduction into
account when buying their homes had their
home values and finances whacked without
warning. Interest deductions on mortgage
borrowings exceeding $750,000 were cut back,
compared with interest deductions on up to
$1 million under the old law—but that
doesn’t affect anywhere near as many people
as the cap on real estate tax deductions does.
(A brief aside: Among the modest winners
here are first-time buyers who purchased
their homes after the tax law took effect and
benefited by paying less than they would
have paid under the old tax rules.)
Now, to the micro-math.
Lamle’s model isn’t applicable to most
people because it works only for taxpayers
with a household income of at least $200,000
a year who paid at least $1 million for their
homes. But the principle underlying Lamle’s
model applies to everyone who owns a home
or is interested in owning one. To wit: You
calculate the tax-law-caused loss of value by
figuring out how much a house’s price needs
to fall for buyers’ or owners’ after-tax costs
to be the same now as they were before the
tax law changed.
‘‘People buying large-ticket items typi-
cally focus on after-tax costs of ownership,’’
Lamle told me. ‘‘The amount that many
buyers can afford is affected by limits on
their financial resources. Therefore, as their
tax costs increase substantially because of
the loss of tax deductions, they have less
money available to pay for homes and to
take on mortgage debt.’’
At the suggestion of one of my editors, I
asked Lamle to use a modified version of his
economic model to estimate the tax law’s
impact on the value of a theoretical house in
the New York City suburb of West Orange,
New Jersey, purchased for $800,000 in 2017 by
a theoretical family with a $250,000 annual
income. Those home value and income num-
bers are very high by national standards—
but middle class by the standards of large
parts of suburban Essex County.
Real estate tax on that theoretical house
would run about $28,900 a year, according to
statistics from the New Jersey state treas-
urer’s office. That tax used to be fully de-
ductible for federal tax purposes. Now, it’s
not deductible at all if you assume that the
house’s owners are taking the standard de-
duction on their federal returns. Or that
even if they’re itemizing deductions, they’re
paying at least $10,000 of state income taxes,
which means they don’t get any benefit from
deducting property taxes.
According to Lamle’s calculations, this in-
ability to deduct real estate tax has reduced
the home’s value by $138,720, assuming a 5%
mortgage rate. At a 4% rate, the value loss
is $173,400. (For the math and assumptions
underlying these numbers, see his method-
ology below.) So if the family put up
$200,000—25% of the purchase price—to buy
the house, more than half of that investment
has been wiped out.
Obviously, it’s impossible to prove that
Zandi and Lamle are right about the impact
they say the tax law is having (and will con-
tinue to have) on home prices, because
there’s no way to gauge the accuracy of their
numbers. But the logic is compelling.
The loss in home values is crucial because
it turns out that lots more people have big-
ger financial stakes in their houses than in
their stock portfolios, which have thrived as
the Trump tax law turbocharged corporate
earnings and stock prices.
In fact, 73.5% of households that own
homes, stocks or both had bigger stakes in
the home market than in the stock market,
according to David Rasnick, an economist at
the Center for Economic and Policy Re-
search, who parsed Federal Reserve data at
my request.
Now, let’s put things in perspective, set
aside home value losses for a minute and
talk about the cash that people are getting
from Trump’s 2017 tax law. It isn’t all that
much for most families. Households’ average
federal income tax has fallen by $1,260 a
year, according to the Tax Policy Center.
That average is skewed by big savings real-
ized by people with big incomes; the median
family’s tax cut is only about half as much
as the average cut, by the Tax Policy Cen-
ter’s math.
This means that—for taxpayers of higher
income and more modest income—the in-
come tax savings are likely small beer com-
pared with the hidden loss inflicted on many
of them by lower house values.
Back to the main event. And some final—
but important—numbers.
According to the Tax Policy Center, the
Treasury will get $620 billion of additional
revenue over a 10-year period because people
can’t deduct their full state and local taxes.
That, in turn, covers most of the 10-year,
$680 billion cost of the income tax break that
corporations are getting. So you can make a
case that my friends and neighbors and co-
workers in New York and New Jersey—and
many of you all over the country—are pay-
ing more federal income tax in order to help
corporations pay less federal income tax.
That, my friends, is the bottom line.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. By denying the
full SALT deduction, you are making
it more expensive to buy homes, you
are having a lower resale value, it is a
loss of net worth, plus there is about a
1 percent hit because of the higher in-
terest rates that are going to come be-
cause your tax bill of $2 trillion is on
the collar.
Madam Speaker, I strongly urge my
colleagues to look at this to see how
pervasive the hit is, not just to their
income tax, but to their most precious
asset, their home value.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PASCRELL), a leader and a very vocal
advocate of this bill.
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I
rise in strong support of H.R. 5377.
The bill is a carefully crafted and
balanced package of tax relief created
to address the injustice done to our
middle-class families by the SALT cap.
Remember, if you are rich, you get
double taxed. If you are not so rich,
you get double taxed.
That is what we are talking about
here. It is the product of months of
hard work by members of our com-
mittee and the working group led by
Mr. THOMPSON.
I thank the gentleman from Cali-
fornia for the time he spent on this and
for not giving up. I am grateful to our
many other colleagues from other
States, blue and red. I also thank our
committee chair, the gentleman from
Massachusetts, for his leadership and
hard work. I strongly urge all of my
colleagues to support this important
legislation.
I am going to conclude with this,
Madam Speaker. They have only
talked about one side—the other side
has done this—about what happens to
those ‘‘millionaires’’ if, in the bill, we
pay for it by increasing the personal
income tax from 37 percent to 39 per-
cent, from where it was before.
Have you subtracted that from what
you are going to get back on their
taxes? No, you haven’t, because you
have done it in a dishonest way.
That is why the middle class gets
shafted. Not this time.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I continue to reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
b 1445
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.059 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12277
December 19, 2019
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS), a great member of
our Ways and Means Committee.
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, my congressional dis-
trict is one of the most affected con-
gressional districts in the Nation,
ranking 38 among districts in highest
average SALT deductions. Over 105,000
households benefited from SALT in my
district in 2017, with an average benefit
of $19,400. Then the Republican tax law
increased taxes on millions of Illi-
noisans and tens of millions of Ameri-
cans.
The SALT deduction is a bedrock
part of the tax code since its inception.
It has been around since the beginning
of time.
If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it. We need
to restore it and make sure that citi-
zens get the benefit in their commu-
nities from their State government and
then be able to use it as a part of their
income tax.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
HIGGINS), a treasured member of the
Ways and Means Committee.
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Madam Speaker, there are many
issues with the Republican tax scheme,
but the $10,000 State and local tax de-
duction cap is one of the most egre-
gious. The SALT deduction has been a
fixture of the United States tax code
since the introduction of the Federal
income tax in 1913 to acknowledge that
State and local taxes are paid for serv-
ices that the Federal Government does
not provide.
When State and local governments
lost part of that deduction, they were
taxed twice, so this is an issue, which
has been said many times in the com-
mittee, of tax fairness.
While this legislation was a team ef-
fort under the direction of MIKE
THOMPSON, head of the working group,
the persistence of Members BILL PAS-
CRELL and TOM SUOZZI, who made their
persistence with clarity and insistence
on fairness for their constituents, in-
spired all of us to fight to defend that
same fairness for ours.
This is a good bill. I urge its support.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
JUDY CHU), a great member of our
Ways and Means Committee.
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5377,
which will stop the double taxing of
millions of Americans.
Restoring the ability of Americans to
deduct their State and local taxes is
about fairness. It is about fairness for
the households in my California dis-
trict, where the average SALT deduc-
tion was nearly $21,000, more than dou-
ble the current $10,000 limit.
It is about fairness for the married
teachers making $60,000 each, who now
receive only half of the deduction of
unmarried couples, effectively creating
a marriage penalty.
It is about fairness for our local gov-
ernments that struggle to provide im-
portant services such as education,
public safety, and infrastructure.
And it is about fairness for our teach-
ers and firefighters who get an addi-
tional deduction in this bill to help
them afford work-related expenses.
The 2017 tax scam was unfair. The top
1 percent and corporations got a mas-
sive handout, while American families
were left holding the bag.
A vote in support of this bill today
begins to restore that fairness, and I
urge my colleagues to support it.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
SCHNEIDER), a great member of our
Ways and Means Committee.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker, I
want to thank the chairman for recog-
nizing me.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in
strong support of H.R. 5377, the Restor-
ing Tax Fairness for States and Local-
ities Act. This legislation seeks to fix
one of the most harmful provisions of
the 2017 Republican tax law: the $10,000
limit on the State and local tax deduc-
tion.
Raising this unfair, punishing cap is
a top priority for the constituents I
represent. Forcing Americans to pay
Federal tax on the taxes they have al-
ready paid to their State and local gov-
ernment is double taxation and it is
wrong.
In my Illinois district, approximately
42 percent of filers use the SALT de-
duction, and the average deduction is
significantly higher, nearly double the
new cap. Even worse, the new $10,000
cap applies equally to married and sin-
gle filers, creating a marriage penalty,
further punishing joint filers. This is
not fair to America’s middle class.
It is wrong that the burden of the tax
law that overwhelmingly benefits the
most fortunate Americans—indeed, 83
percent of the benefit of the 2017 law
went to the top 1 percent—it is unfair
that the burden should lie in a narrow
range of States like Illinois.
H.R. 5377 would rectify these wrongs.
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
SUOZZI), someone who has worked tire-
lessly on this. You couldn’t get out of
his line of sight. No matter how early
I went to the gym, the gentleman
would be waiting: ‘‘We have got to do
SALT.’’
Mr. SUOZZI. Madam Speaker, I
thank Chairman THOMPSON, Chairman
NEAL, and BILL PASCRELL for all of
their hard work. I thank PETER KING,
my Republican colleague from Long Is-
land who is retiring next year, who is
standing up for his constituents, as he
always has. I thank the 50 cosponsors
of this bill, bipartisan cosponsors, who
realize that we have to be, as someone
mentioned before, intellectually hon-
est.
We need to be intellectually honest
and recognize, number one, that 100
percent of this bill is paid for by the
wealthiest Americans. One hundred
percent of this bill is paid for by tax-
payers who make over $440,000 a year.
It is inaccurate to suggest that other
people are subsidizing this other than
the wealthy. This is being paid for 100
percent by the wealthy.
This is called the Restoring Tax Fair-
ness for States and Localities Act.
That name is exactly what this is
about: restoring fairness.
It is not fair. It is not fair that peo-
ple are paying taxes on taxes they have
already paid. It is not fair to State and
local municipalities that relied on this
tax deduction since the beginning of
the tax code in 1913 that are now get-
ting a punch in the gut and trying to
change the rules.
There is a reason that this has been
endorsed by so many different groups.
It has been endorsed by teachers. It has
been endorsed by firefighters, by police
officers.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield the gentleman
from New York an additional 30 sec-
onds.
Mr. SUOZZI. Madam Speaker, it has
been endorsed by the U.S. Conference
of Mayors. It has been endorsed by the
National League of Cities, endorsed by
the National Association of Counties.
It is not fair, Madam Speaker, that
my colleagues on the other side are
boasting that people are leaving places
like my State and moving to their
States.
What happens? The people who are
left behind, low-and moderate-income
people who can’t afford to move away,
get left behind holding the bag.
My State and so many other States
that are hurt by this existing GOP tax
cut are subsidizing the other States in
this Nation. My State sends $48 billion
a year more to the Federal Govern-
ment than we get back.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to please support this.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, how much time do I
have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from California has 14-3⁄4 min-
utes remaining. The gentleman from
Nebraska has 11 minutes remaining.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.069 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12278 December 19, 2019
the gentleman from Nevada (Mr.
HORSFORD), a great member of our
committee.
Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman for yielding.
I appreciate the opportunity to rise
and speak in support of the Restoring
Tax Fairness for States and Localities
Act, which includes my bill, the Sup-
port American Teachers Act of 2019,
which will substantially increase the
current educators’ deduction expense
for teachers.
On average, teachers in Clark County
School District, the fifth largest dis-
trict in the country, which I represent,
spend about $750 out of pocket on
school supplies for their classrooms.
The starting year salary for those
teachers is $40,000.
Kaitlyn Cline, a kindergarten teacher
at Kay Carl Elementary School, also in
Las Vegas, spends even more. Every
year, Kaitlyn spends about $1,000 out of
her own pocket to give her class the
educational experience they deserve.
As Ms. Cline says:
As a teacher, I have to work extra hard on
the side to help pay my bills and have extra
money for work expenses. Any extra finan-
cial relief that can be utilized, can make a
huge difference.
Today, I urge my colleagues to vote
in favor of this bill. Let’s give the
teachers the support they need and
provide them the deduction for the ex-
penses that they incur.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I would just add that there
will be a chance here in a few moments
to answer the concerns that the prior
speaker had, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
ESHOO), a treasured member of the
Ways and Means Committee.
Ms. ESHOO. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to rise in support of H.R. 5377
and am an original cosponsor of this
legislation.
I am going to put my full statement
in the RECORD, but let me just say a
few things that are top-line—top-line—
for my constituents. There are over
200,000 constituents’ households af-
fected by this in my congressional dis-
trict.
Now, someone was talking about
math. I think the original tax bill was
bad math. It charged $2 trillion to the
national debt.
Fair? No. It was an assault on the
middle class. Let’s be perfectly clear
about this.
And what has the middle class done
to anyone here? They are the backbone
of our country. They have four major
things to deduct: mortgage interest,
SALT, charitable deductions, and
health expenditures.
So what did the Republicans’ tax bill
do? It screwed the middle class, in
plain English.
So this restores that deductibility,
and they deserve to have it.
This bill is paid for. I think that is
good math, and I think it is fair.
I thank Mr. THOMPSON and the com-
mittee for the work that they have
done on it. Bravo to all of you, and
thank you from my constituents.
Madam Speaker, as an original cosponsor
of H.R. 5377, I rise in strong support of the
Restoring Tax Fairness for States and Local-
ities Act.
This legislation repeals the harmful cap on
the State and Local Tax (SALT) Deduction in
2020 and 2021 and fixes the marriage penalty
in 2019 by doubling the SALT cap to $20,000
for married couples.
This is welcome relief to the nearly 200,000
of my constituents and the millions of Ameri-
cans who are no longer able to deduct the full
amount of State and Local Taxes they pay
each year.
The 2017 Republican tax bill took a sledge-
hammer to the SALT deduction by capping it
at $10,000 annually for both single filers and
married couples, essentially an assault on the
middle class, the backbone of our country.
The SALT deduction is one of the few de-
ductions in the federal tax code that middle
class families depend on, along with deduc-
tions for medical expenses, charitable con-
tributions, and mortgage interest.
Prior to this harmful cap, my constituents
claimed an average annual SALT deduction of
$63,083 in 2017. More than half of all tax-
payers in my district claimed this credit in 201
7, and half of these taxpayers earned between
$75,000 and $100,00.
This legislation also doubles the educator
expense deduction for teachers and creates a
new deduction for first responders for uni-
forms, tuition and professional development.
These hardworking and dedicated profes-
sionals are part of the foundation of our local
communities and they deserve this much-
needed tax relief.
I urge my colleagues to vote YES on H.R.
5377.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, in the interest of accuracy in
this debate, I would like to reiterate
that we doubled the standard deduction
for all Americans—not just selective
groups, but all Americans. We doubled
that standard deduction, therefore,
helping the middle class, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL), the chairman of the Foreign
Affairs Committee.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to support H.R. 5377, to begin to
repair some of the damage from the
GPO’s tax scam legislation which
passed this House 2 years ago.
I said it at the time, and I say it
again: It is one of the worst bills I have
ever seen, and it blows a hole in the
budget.
So much for fiscal responsibility on
the other side of the aisle.
One of the more egregious provisions
in that bill was capping State and local
tax deductions at $10,000. This deduc-
tion has been part of our tax code for
over 150 years.
This cap hurts my constituents, who
often have property, income, and sales
taxes exceeding $10,000.
New Yorkers already pay more to the
Federal Government as a donor State
than we receive back. We receive only
84 cents for every dollar we send to
Washington. This imbalance is greater
than any other State and grows be-
cause of the SALT cap. Homeowners
are already seeing home values decline
because of the SALT cap.
Earlier in this year, I introduced
H.R. 515, with 20 of my colleagues, to
repeal this harmful tax provision. I am
pleased to see my New York colleague
Mr. SUOZZI’s measure containing much
of my bill here on the floor today.
In conclusion, let me say we need to
reverse some of the harm the GPO’s
tax scam bill has inflicted on so many
Americans, especially my New York
constituents. Support H.R. 5377, and
let’s be fair once and for all.
b 1500
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. ARRINGTON).
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
want to first commend my colleague
from New York (Mr. SUOZZI) for his
passionate advocacy for his district. I
understand where his heart is, I under-
stand his motives, I know they are
pure, and it makes it a lot easier to
work with people who approach public
policy that way.
But as I have mentioned to him in
committee, I think this is wrongheaded
and fundamentally bad public policy. It
certainly is not in keeping with bene-
fiting the general welfare of the public,
restoring these SALT deductions. I am
sure many of these points being made
earlier discourage localities and States
from keeping their taxes low. They
also penalize States like Texas who
keep their tax rates low, and the ma-
jority of the benefit of these deductions
will go to millionaires. That is not an
exaggeration. Over 50 percent of the
benefit will go to people who are mil-
lionaires. In fact, 95 percent of the ben-
efit will go to folks who make over
$200,000. That is real money in west
Texas.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I yield the gentleman from
Texas an additional 30 seconds.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
think one of the biggest problems I
have with this, ultimately, is we are
raising that top rate after we cut
taxes, restored more freedom to the
markets, and unleashed growth and job
creation, all a tremendous response
from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and
now we are putting a tax burden on the
American people.
We are raising taxes on small busi-
nesses. One-third of the taxes being
raised here will fall on small busi-
nesses, mom-and-pop shops, commu-
nity banks, and family farmers. Main
Street will be negatively affected in a
big way.
So I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’
on this legislation.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. CASTEN).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.070 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12279
December 19, 2019
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 5377.
I want to start by thanking my col-
leagues across the aisle for passing the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. My predecessor
campaigned on it, and I wouldn’t be
here otherwise, so I thank them all.
It is important to understand we
need to pass this bill to undo the dam-
age done by that bill and the hurt it
gave to middle-class families, teachers,
and first responders across the coun-
try. From the very first tax code in
1913, we have included allowing a de-
duction for State and local taxes for
the simple reason that we shouldn’t
tax people twice.
It is not just going back to 1913. Our
Founders got that point as well. Alex-
ander Hamilton in Federalist 32 wrote
that independent and uncontrollable
authority to raise their own revenues
for the supply of their own wants would
be a problem.
What Hamilton understood is that
certain services—roads, schools, fire
departments, and libraries—are better
and more efficiently provided by local
authorities, and when we double tax-
ation, we create a fight between Fed-
eral and local authorities for finite re-
sources to the detriment of those crit-
ical local services.
Repeal the State and local tax deduc-
tion in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr.
PHILLIPS).
Mr. PHILLIPS. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in support of H.R. 5377, the
bipartisan Restoring Tax Fairness to
States and Localities Act, legislation
that will provide immediate relief to
American families.
Elimination of the State and local
tax deduction in the 2017 tax law was a
bad deal for the State of Minnesota,
the people of my district, and millions
across the country. In fact, the SALT
cap is a punishment for States that in-
vest in schools, roads, and people, and
it is punishment to hardworking fami-
lies in those States who deserve our ap-
preciation and gratitude—not a tax in-
crease.
Matthew and Karen are two edu-
cators in my district who bought a
home for their young family just 3
years ago. Now, with the increased tax
burden, they face the real prospect of
losing their home and having to move
farther away from their kids’ school
and community.
I am fighting hard for this bill, and I
am on a mission to make the tax code
more equitable for the people of my
State—one that already shares much
more of its hard-earned money with
Washington than it gets back in re-
turn—and particularly for people like
Matthew and Karen.
So, Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
come together to end the SALT cap
and repeal such a punitive mistake.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
PORTER).
Ms. PORTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support for the Restoring Tax
Fairness for States and Localities Act.
Over the last year, I have heard a re-
sounding message from Orange County
families, from Republicans, Democrats,
and Independents alike. We must re-
peal the harmful SALT limits included
in Trump’s tax law.
When that law capped State and local
tax deductions, it raised taxes on tens
of thousands of Orange County fami-
lies.
The average SALT deduction in my
district is over $22,000, and by capping
the deduction at only $10,000—less than
half that amount—Orange County fam-
ilies are being double taxed on the
money they earned. The SALT cap also
imposes a marriage penalty, and it is,
therefore, antifamily.
Reversing SALT is bipartisan. I
heard this in April when I held a tax
townhall in April. My constituents
simply could not understand why Re-
publicans and Democrats could not
come together to address the SALT
problem and help middle-class families
in California while Halliburton, Ama-
zon, and Chevron paid no Federal in-
come tax in 2018.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield the gentle-
woman an additional 20 seconds.
Ms. PORTER. Our families should
not be penalized by double taxation.
I thank Chairmen Neal and Thomp-
son for their work on this important
bill, and I urge support from my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ZELDIN).
Mr. ZELDIN. Madam Speaker, I rise
in opposition to this bill.
First off, I do want to thank my col-
league from Long Island, Mr. SUOZZI.
Mr. SUOZZI and I have engaged in many
conversations about this important
issue, and I am sure that that will con-
tinue after today’s debate.
I would like to clear up a few things
about this legislation before us today
to cut through some of what has been
debated.
This bill permanently hikes taxes on
individuals and small businesses to 39.6
percent for those currently in the 37
percent tax bracket—and for many in
the 35 percent tax bracket as well—in
exchange for a very temporary change
of the SALT deduction only until 2021.
So the SALT deduction is going to
change very temporarily, but perma-
nently we are going to be increasing
taxes on individuals and small busi-
nesses.
We have to understand that 90 per-
cent of U.S. businesses are
passthroughs. They don’t pay the cor-
porate tax rate. They pay under the in-
dividual tax rate. Almost 100 percent of
all passthrough businesses have less
than 100 employees. We are increasing
taxes permanently on all these small
businesses in exchange for that short-
term change.
I support multiple active bills that
would change the State and local tax
deduction without raising any taxes on
individuals and small businesses. It is
important to remember that the only
SALT deduction legislation that will
ever provide relief is legislation that
can be signed into law, and this bill
which permanently raises taxes on in-
dividuals and small businesses is not it.
In my district, from Main Street to
wineries on the North Fork, this is bad
news for small businesses up and down
Long Island. I am focused on providing
true tax relief for all hardworking
Long Islanders.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I yield the gentleman from
New York an additional 30 seconds.
Mr. ZELDIN. It is unfortunate that,
at the end of the day, when the dust
has settled, they will continue to be
the victims of out-of-State and out-of-
touch congressional leadership putting
politics over commonsense, realistic
solutions.
My colleagues know I am eager to
work with them to fix this legislation,
so we can actually get this across the
finish line and signed into law to pro-
vide true tax relief for hardworking
Americans. But, unfortunately, that
very temporary change to SALT in ex-
change for that permanent tax increase
for individuals and small businesses is
why I can’t support this bill in its cur-
rent form.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I just want to remind
the gentleman that, although I appre-
ciate that he wants to get rid of the
cap, you can’t do it without paying for
it. That is the same irresponsible be-
havior that the Republicans employed
in their tax bill, and it cost us $2.3 tril-
lion in our national debt.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
GOTTHEIMER).
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Madam Speaker,
I rise today in support of H.R. 5377 to
finally deliver the tax cuts so des-
perately needed for families and busi-
nesses in my district in northern New
Jersey.
I thank Chairman NEAL for his lead-
ership on this legislation which will ul-
timately save the Fifth District tax fil-
ers $5.6 billion each year. That is just
in my district alone.
Today, I released a tax cut model to
show, at every income level, the mas-
sive tax cuts that families in the Fifth
Congressional District of New Jersey
will see as a result of this bipartisan
bill. Not only will this bill cut taxes,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.072 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12280 December 19, 2019
but it also helps increase our property
values and drives economic growth,
which is why the New Jersey Chamber
of Commerce and the New Jersey Real-
tors have both come out in support of
the legislation.
We have to fix the mess caused by
the 2017 tax hike bill in the moocher
States and provide actual tax cuts for
New Jersey families, first responders,
and small businesses.
Ever since I joined Democrats and
Republicans in voting against the tax
hike bill, I have been fighting to fully
reinstate SALT and finally cut taxes
for north Jersey families. It is time we
fought back against the moocher
States who literally stole $800 billion
right out of our pockets. I am sick and
tired of paying the bill of the moocher
States. This is a huge win for New Jer-
sey families and an actual tax cut.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I would remind my colleague
who just spoke that the average family
of four in his district received a benefit
through the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of
about $5,000 per year.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentleman from California (Mr.
LAMALFA).
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, last
night we were in the twilight zone, and
now we are in a parallel universe
today. Very interesting what we are
doing here.
I come from the high-tax State of
California, where we bear the cost of so
many tax increases from Sacramento.
So all we are doing here is justifying
the increase in the car tax, the in-
crease in the gas tax, and spending the
money on a dead high-speed rail
project, the increase from a mysterious
gas tax, and the cap-and-trade tax.
All we are going to do here is reward
bad behavior in California and five or
six other high-tax States.
Instead, let’s get back on track with
doing things that cause jobs to happen,
as the bill that our Democrat col-
leagues don’t like. They didn’t like
Proposition 13, which has saved homes
in California. They have been com-
plaining about it ever since it was
passed.
Now they are trying to eviscerate
Prop 13 and raise taxes on businesses.
This will justify that ability to do
that. Don’t send a message that they
can raise taxes in California or other
States any more by what happens in
this place.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from the State of
Virginia (Ms. WEXTON).
Ms. WEXTON. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 5377,
the Restoring Tax Fairness for States
and Localities Act.
The SALT deduction has protected
Virginia taxpayers from double tax-
ation for over 100 years, but that
changed when Donald Trump and con-
gressional Republicans imposed an un-
precedented $10,000 tax cap punishing
taxpayers in districts like mine.
In 2017 my district had the highest
average SALT deduction in Virginia at
almost $18,000 and the greatest number
of households claiming SALT at
213,500—more than half of my district.
The SALT cap is unfair and punitive,
hurting Virginians and over 11 million
Americans. Hardworking taxpayers de-
serve better.
Today we have an opportunity to do
better, to restore this tax relief and
put money back in the pockets of
150,000 households in my district and
many, many more across the country.
Madam Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this important leg-
islation.
b 1515
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ZELDIN).
Mr. ZELDIN. Madam Speaker, I
think it is important to reiterate the
fact that this bill is just a very tem-
porary change to the SALT deduction
until 2021 in exchange for a permanent
increase to taxes on individuals in
small businesses.
While we are having this debate, I
think it is also really important to
point out that the reason our State and
local tax deduction was as high as it
was is because our State and local
taxes are as high as they are.
As we take this opportunity on this
floor, let’s send a message to Mayor de
Blasio in New York City, and Gov-
ernors and State legislators in Albany,
New Jersey, and California, that all
levels of government have a role to
play in tax relief. That is why our
State and local tax deduction was as
high as it was.
To deliver for my constituents on the
east end of Long Island, for people in
our entire State, and for Governor
Cuomo and the Democrats running Al-
bany right now watching this, do your
part. My people in my district are des-
perate for relief, and Congress
shouldn’t try to bail you out time and
time again.
We will stand here and fight for you.
That is why I support multiple bills
that will make a change to the State
and local tax deduction. But ironically,
this is a bill that makes it worse
through a temporary change for the
SALT deduction in exchange from a
permanent tax increase. So now, they
are getting screwed both ways.
I am a little different from some of
my colleagues. I had some opposition
to the bill in 2017, and I am opposed to
this bill as well.
For those Democratic politicians who
are in New York City and Albany and
putting the screws to my constituents
because they only know how to raise
taxes and they don’t know how to
spend wisely, start doing your part be-
cause that is why our SALT deduction
was as high as it was for so long.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from the District of
Columbia (Ms. NORTON).
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
thank my good friend from California
for yielding.
Madam Speaker, Americans fa-
mously complain about taxes. Who can
then blame residents of the District of
Columbia, where 40 percent claim the
SALT deduction, among the largest
number of taxpayers in the country?
By allowing at least a $10,000 deduc-
tion, the 2017 Republican tax law con-
cedes that it imposes double taxation.
The Republican tax law was particu-
larly nefarious because it virtually tar-
geted blue states, whose top taxes sup-
port values like funding for local pub-
lic education. We cannot, of course,
protect Americans from taxes, but ever
since the passage of the Federal in-
come tax law in 1913, we have protected
them from being taxed on dollars al-
ready taxed by State and local govern-
ments. The Restoring Tax Fairness for
States and Localities Act ensures that
wisdom.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, may I inquire how
much time I have remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from California has 51⁄4 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from Ne-
braska has 31⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from New York (Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY), the chair of the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Madam Speaker, I thank my
friend for yielding and for his great
leadership.
Madam Speaker, there was a lot
wrong with the 2017 Republican tax
law. This week, we can fix part of it by
repealing the cap on the State and
local tax deduction, or SALT.
The SALT deduction allows tax-
payers to deduct from their Federal
taxes the State and local income prop-
erty taxes they pay. Republicans
capped the SALT deductions at $10,000,
far, far less than many New Yorkers
pay. It has caused a great deal of pain
for many New Yorker families.
There is also a marriage penalty in
the law. So if two people who each have
$10,000 in SALT get married, their com-
bined deduction goes from $20,000 to
$10,000 when they tie the knot. That
doesn’t make sense.
The bill before us, H.R. 5377, intro-
duced by my colleague, TOM SUOZZI, ad-
dresses both of these issues. It lifts the
cap for married couples to $20,000 in
2019. It eliminates the cap entirely for
the following 2 years and pays for it by
restoring the previous top marginal tax
rate.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 5377.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I am prepared to close, if
there are no other speakers on the
other side, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I am prepared to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.073 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12281
December 19, 2019
close, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume. Madam Speaker, in the
interest of spreading holiday cheer, I
will be brief.
I believe the bill we are about to vote
on is bad policy. If you look at the
SALT cap, it is good policy.
A State that has lower taxes should
not be forced to pay more to subsidize
a State that has higher taxes. There
are generally reasons that a State is a
higher tax State, and that was gen-
erated locally or at that State level.
But I think it is bad policy, as Mr.
ZELDIN was pointing out, to have a per-
manent tax increase to pay for a tem-
porary tax benefit. That is bad policy.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I point out that
their provision is temporary as well,
just not as temporary.
Madam Speaker, the National Asso-
ciation of Police Organizations in their
letter to us wrote: ‘‘Our members are
not just first responders; they are also
citizens of the communities in which
they work.’’
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD a letter from that organiza-
tion.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF POLICE
ORGANIZATIONS, INC.
Alexandria, Virginia, December 10, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD NEAL,
Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN BRADY,
Ranking Member, Committee on Ways and
Means,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL AND RANKING MEM-
BER BRADY:
On behalf of the National Association of
Police Organizations (NAPO), representing
over 241,000 sworn law enforcement officers
across the nation, I am writing to you to ex-
press our full support for the Restoring Tax
Fairness for States and Localities Act.
Throughout this country, law enforcement
officers go to work every day with one goal
in mind: to keep their communities safe. In
order to achieve this mission, they receive
support from the communities they serve, as
public safety budgets across the United
States are largely drawn from state and
local property, sales, and income taxes—es-
sential investments that give our first re-
sponders the tools they need to get the job
done. The state and local tax (SALT) deduc-
tion has helped support these vital invest-
ments at the state and local level.
Our members are not just first responders;
they are also citizens of the communities in
which they work. The fact is that the cap-
ping of the SALT deduction is a significant
tax increase for many suburban homeowners,
including law enforcement officers. This puts
them squarely in the range of middle-class
taxpayers that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
(Public Law No. 115–97) was supposed to help.
Instead, with the SALT deduction capped at
$10,000, many first responders are finding
themselves on the wrong end of a tax hike.
We support the two-year repeal of the cap
and call on Congress to permanently repeal
it, for homeowners, for our communities, and
for the first responders who work every day
to keep those communities safe.
Further, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act hit law
enforcement officers with another tax in-
crease when it eliminated their ability to de-
duct work-related out-of-pockets expenses.
Like many public servants, law enforcement
officers serve our nation and our commu-
nities for modest wages and often have to
pay for mandatory and necessary equipment
and training out-of-pocket. These out-of-
pocket costs are significant and a financial
burden on officers. NAPO supports the inclu-
sion of the Supporting America’s First Re-
sponders Act, which would reinstate deduc-
tions for certain, significant work-related
out-of-pocket expenses for first responders.
NAPO stands ready to support any efforts
necessary to pass this legislation.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM J. JOHNSON, CAE,
Executive Director.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, the fact is that cap-
ping the SALT deduction is a signifi-
cant tax increase for many suburban
homeowners, including law enforce-
ment officers. This puts them squarely
in the range of middle-class taxpayers
that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was
supposed to help. Instead, with the
SALT deduction cap at $10,000, many
first responders are finding themselves
on the wrong end of a tax hike.
We support the 2-year repeal of the
cap and call on Congress to perma-
nently repeal it for homeowners, for
our communities, and for first respond-
ers who work every day to keep those
communities safe.
Madam Speaker, I want to take a
quick moment, as we head into this
holiday season, to offer my apprecia-
tion to the Committee on Ways and
Means tax staff. The Members who
serve on the Committee on Ways and
Means already know that they have
the hardest working men and women
on the Hill at their disposal. This bill
would not have been possible without
their commitment, policy expertise,
dedication, and hard work.
I want to take a minute to thank my
subcommittee staff director, Aruna
Kalyanam; the lead staffer on the
SALT deduction, Peg McGlinch; my
senior counsel, Terri McField; as well
as Scott La Rochelle, Arjun Ghosh, Lee
Slater, and Andrew Grossman on the
committee for their tremendous ef-
forts. They do great work, and we
should all be really glad that they are
here. All Americans should be.
Madam Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I strongly
support this legislation to eliminate the cap on
the State and Local Tax (or SALT) deduction.
Two years ago, Republicans capped the SALT
deduction to force districts represented by
Democratic Members to pay for the bulk of
their Tax Scam. That cap raised over $662 bil-
lion in revenue for Republican tax priorities,
nearly all of it from Democratic states like New
York. New York State already pays $48 billion
more to the Federal government than it gets
back, and the loss of the SALT deduction was
responsible for a $2.3 billion revenue hole in
New York last year putting critical services at
risk.
Some of my colleagues claim that the SALT
deduction will just benefit the wealthy. Wrong.
In 2016, 1.2 million New Yorkers used the
SALT deduction, and more than half of those
taxpayers earned less than $100,000 per year.
We are not talking about a loophole used by
the richest Americans—many of which, I will
point out, were preserved in the Republican
Tax Scam. We are talking about the largest
deduction for the teachers, office workers, and
first responders who make up the middle class
in my district.
We must remove this cap and stop pun-
ishing the hard-working people of New York
simply because of where they live. I urge my
colleagues to vote yes on this bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 772,
the previous question is ordered on the
bill, as amended.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I have a motion at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. I am in
its present form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Rice of South Carolina moves to re-
commit the bill H.R. 5377 to the Committee
on Ways and Means with instructions to re-
port the same back to the House forthwith
with the following amendment:
In the matter proposed to be inserted by
section 2(a), insert ‘‘if the adjusted gross in-
come of the taxpayer for such taxable year
does not exceed $100,000,000,’’ after ‘‘January
1, 2020,’’.
In section 3, strike subsection (a) and in-
sert the following:
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 164(b) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by
section 2, is further amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(8) SUSPENSION OF DOLLAR LIMITATION ON
STATE AND LOCAL TAXES FOR 2020 AND 2021.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any tax-
able year beginning in 2020 or 2021, subpara-
graph (B) of paragraph (6) shall not apply.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN HIGH-INCOME
TAXPAYERS.—Subparagraph (A) shall not
apply to any taxpayer for any taxable year if
the adjusted gross income of such taxpayer
for such taxable year exceeds $100,000,000.’’.
In the matter proposed to be inserted by
each of sections 4(a), 4(b)(2), 5(a), and 5(c),
strike ‘‘$500’’ and insert ‘‘$1,000’’.
Mr. RICE of South Carolina (during
the reading). Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to dispense with
the reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from South Carolina?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
South Carolina is recognized for 5 min-
utes in support of his motion.
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, my motion to recommit is
very simple.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.075 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12282 December 19, 2019
Despite the terms of the underlying
bill, it would retain the $10,000 cap on
the SALT deduction only for tax re-
turns where the people earn more than
$100 million a year.
This would produce about $7 billion
in savings, and we would apply the $7
billion to doubling the deduction for
firefighters and teachers’ supplies from
$500, which is provided in the under-
lying bill, to $1,000.
Madam Speaker, my friends across
the aisle love to say that they are the
party of the downtrodden and the mid-
dle class, but their actions certainly
speak a lot louder than their words.
The underlying bill here is a plain give-
away to the rich. Let me say that
again: It is a plain giveaway to the
rich.
In excess of 50 percent of the benefit
of restoring or taking away the SALT
cap goes to the top 1 percent of wage
earners. Madam Speaker, 94 percent—
94 percent—of the benefit of doing
away with the SALT cap goes to wage
earners that are in the top 10 percent
of American wage earners.
Please, Madam Speaker, my friends
across the aisle should stop saying that
they are for the middle class.
I represent an area in South Caro-
lina. I live in Horry County, South
Carolina. The average SALT deduction
is $1,800. The SALT cap of $10,000 is five
times higher than what is needed to
cover the average SALT deduction in
Horry County.
But I represent poor counties as well.
Marion County, South Carolina, 57 per-
cent African American, has an average
wage of $30,000 a year. If we do away
with this SALT deduction cap, these
people would be subsidizing, with their
Federal income taxes, mansions in
high-tax States.
That is simply not fair, and it doesn’t
just apply in South Carolina. It applies
to rural areas all over our country, in-
cluding rural areas in California and
rural areas in New York.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed
into effect 2 years ago has restored op-
portunity in this land of opportunity.
We have historic lows in unemploy-
ment. Record numbers of people are
working in this country, in every de-
mographic category. It cuts taxes for
people at every income level.
The opportunity has been restored in
this land of opportunity, but my
friends across the aisle dig at this.
Their big opposition to this bill is that
it was a tax cut for the wealthy. They
say 80 percent went to the wealthiest 1
percent. That is not true. That only fo-
cuses on the time after the individual
tax cuts expire.
Their proposal to fix the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act, their proposal to fix this
bill that they say is a tax cut for the
wealthy, is to put back an even greater
tax cut for the wealthy. Again, 94 per-
cent of the benefit of this bill goes to
people who earn in the top 10 percent of
wage earners in this country.
Madam Speaker, there is an old prov-
erb: I can’t hear what you are saying
because your actions scream so loudly.
Madam Speaker, if we truly are for
the middle class, if we truly are for the
downtrodden, if we want to support our
firefighters and our teachers, vote for
this motion to recommit.
Keep the SALT deduction in place for
the wealthiest of the wealthy, only
those who are earning $100 million a
year or more. Surely, they can afford
to pay for their property taxes on their
mansions without subsidies from rural
people like the people in Marion, South
Carolina.
If we really believe that we want to
back the middle class, let’s back up our
words with actions.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
b 1530
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Speaker,
I rise in opposition to this motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New Jersey is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Speaker,
let’s talk about who actually takes the
SALT deduction.
In my district in New Jersey, they
are not rich. They are teachers. They
are firefighters. They are small busi-
ness owners. They are young families
who want to buy a home, seniors who
want to stay in theirs.
And then in 2017, House Republicans
targeted them because they happen to
live in States where we choose to pay
for good schools and services.
And why? Not to pay for schools, not
to pay for our military, not to pay for
our healthcare, but because they need-
ed to find someone in America to pay
for cutting our effective corporate tax
rate in half.
When middle-class families in my
district saw their taxes rise, their
home values fall, just one company,
Berkshire Hathaway—one company—
got a $29 billion windfall.
Did corporations give that money to
their employees? No. According to
CRS, the average American worker got
an added bonus of $28.
Did they invest in new jobs and out-
put? No. The economy actually grew
more slowly in the six quarters after
the bill was passed than in the six
quarters before it.
So where did the money go? I will
tell you where most of it went. The tax
cut helped corporations buy back over
$1 trillion of their own shares on Wall
Street, which gave us a temporary
sugar high on Wall Street. We may as
well have burned that money on The
National Mall.
For this—for this—the Republican
tax bill took from middle-class families
money they needed to buy their first
home, to send their kids to college, to
stay in their home when they retire.
For this, because capping SALT
wasn’t nearly enough to pay for that
bill, the bill blew a $2 trillion hole in
the national debt—just as everyone on
our side predicted because we used
something called math.
Madam Speaker, let’s restore the
SALT deduction. Vote for this bill.
I yield to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. PORTER).
Ms. PORTER. Madam Speaker, when
Congress enacted the first income tax
in 1861, in the midst of the Civil War, it
included the first exemption for State
and local taxes.
President Trump’s tax law violated
our Nation’s long-held views of States’
rights and a limited Federal Govern-
ment.
It has long been accepted in America
that we do not tax the same income
twice. Federal taxation must not crowd
out the taxes needed to support critical
State and local functions like good
schools, roads, and bridges. That prin-
ciple was first stated in the Federalist
Papers. It is a core component of
States’ rights, and it was attacked by
Trump’s tax law.
The SALT deduction expresses the
longstanding American preference of
local solutions to local problems.
President Trump’s tax law hurts
California communities. By limiting
the deductibility of State and local
taxes, the Trump tax law was a direct
threat to States and communities that
are investing in local services. Over the
long-term, it will cause local govern-
ments to slash revenue that funds
schools, healthcare, transit, parks, and
first responders.
This bill will not only help middle-
class families, but it will expand tax
relief for educators by doubling the tax
credit from $250 to $500. It will create a
new tax credit for first responders, the
people who put their lives on the line
every day to serve us.
I am heartened that my colleagues
on the other side of the aisle want to
work on a progressive income tax. I am
heartened that they want to tax bil-
lionaires and ultramillionaires and
champion a progressive tax system
that addresses income inequality.
But this vote today is about prin-
ciple. It is about standing up for the
principle that States and localities are
able to fund the services that are most
crucial to their communities.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Speaker,
I yield to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. THOMPSON).
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, in the spirit of the
holiday season, I accept the motion to
recommit.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Speaker,
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on the motion to recom-
mit H.R. 5377 will be followed by 5-
minute votes on:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.078 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12283
December 19, 2019
Passage of H.R. 5377, if ordered; and
Passage of H.R. 5430.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 388, nays 36,
not voting 6, as follows:
[Roll No. 699]
YEAS—388
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Castor (FL)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cline
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Neal
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—36
Aguilar
Allred
Barragán
Bass
Biggs
Casten (IL)
Castro (TX)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Correa
Espaillat
Fletcher
Fudge
Garcia (TX)
Gosar
Jayapal
Jeffries
Lee (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
McEachin
Moore
Napolitano
Neguse
Omar
Payne
Pocan
Richmond
Stevens
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Underwood
Visclosky
Waters
Watson Coleman
NOT VOTING—6
Hayes
Hunter
Meadows
Nadler
Serrano
Shimkus
b 1559
Messrs. BIGGS, ALLRED, Mrs.
FLETCHER, Messrs. PAYNE and
NEGUSE changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. BURCHETT, STANTON,
SIRES, COHEN, CUELLAR, Ms.
ADAMS, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mses.
SPEIER, MATSUI, MENG, Mr.
BROOKS of Alabama, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK,
Messrs. GARCÍA of Illinois, LUJÁN,
HUFFMAN, Ms. SCANLON, Mrs.
BEATTY, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ,
Messrs. KEATING, McNERNEY, Mses.
BONAMICI, PRESSLEY, and Mr.
DESAULNIER changed their vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the motion to recommit was
agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Speaker, pursuant to the in-
structions of the House in the motion
to recommit, I report the bill, H.R.
5377, back to the House with an amend-
ment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
SHERRILL). The Clerk will report the
amendment.
The Clerk read as follows:
Amendment offered by Mr. THOMPSON
of California:
In the matter proposed to be inserted by
section 2(a), insert ‘‘if the adjusted gross in-
come of the taxpayer for such taxable year
does not exceed $100,000,000,’’ after ‘‘January
1, 2020,’’.
In section 3, strike subsection (a) and in-
sert the following:
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 164(b) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by
section 2, is further amended by adding at
the end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(8) SUSPENSION OF DOLLAR LIMITATION ON
STATE AND LOCAL TAXES FOR 2020 AND 2021.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any tax-
able year beginning in 2020 or 2021, subpara-
graph (B) of paragraph (6) shall not apply.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN HIGH-INCOME
TAXPAYERS.—Subparagraph (A) shall not
apply to any taxpayer for any taxable year if
the adjusted gross income of such taxpayer
for such taxable year exceeds $100,000,000.’’.
In the matter proposed to be inserted by
each of sections 4(a), 4(b)(2), 5(a), and 5(c),
strike ‘‘$500’’ and insert ‘‘$1,000’’.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (during the
reading). Madam Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent to dispense with the
reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Nebraska?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the amendment.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 218, noes 206,
not voting 6, as follows:
[Roll No. 700]
AYES—218
Adams
Aguilar
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.080 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12284 December 19, 2019
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—206
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pappas
Pence
Perry
Pocan
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—6
Butterfield
Hunter
Meadows
Nadler
Serrano
Shimkus
b 1609
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, fol-
lowing the vote on the passage of H.R.
5430, Members are advised that there
will be no more votes in the House
until January 7.
Madam Speaker, I want to wish all
Members of this House, their staffs,
and all the employees of this institu-
tion, on whom we rely so much and
who do so much for us and for our
country, a happy holiday season with
their family and loved ones and with
their neighbors.
May God bless our country.
f
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA
AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION
ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on passage of
the bill (H.R. 5430) to implement the
Agreement between the United States
of America, the United Mexican States,
and Canada attached as an Annex to
the Protocol Replacing the North
American Free Trade Agreement, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 385, nays 41,
not voting 5, as follows:
[Roll No. 701]
YEAS—385
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Escobar
Eshoo
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Payne
Pelosi
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Porter
Posey
Price (NC)
Quigley
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.055 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12285
December 19, 2019
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—41
Amash
Barragán
Brown (MD)
Cárdenas
Clarke (NY)
Clay
DeFazio
DeSaulnier
Engel
Espaillat
Fudge
Garcı́a (IL)
Golden
Huffman
Jayapal
Kaptur
Kennedy
Lee (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu, Ted
Lowenthal
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Massie
McEachin
McGovern
Meng
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Pascrell
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Raskin
Tlaib
Tonko
Velázquez
Visclosky
Watson Coleman
Yoho
NOT VOTING—5
Hunter
Meadows
Nadler
Serrano
Shimkus
b 1621
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York changed her vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Madam Speak-
er, with respect to the vote on H.R.
5377, I was unavoidably delayed. I was
in the Speaker’s lobby at the time of
the vote, and when I entered the Cham-
ber, the vote had concluded.
Had I been on the floor, Madam
Speaker, I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’
f
FURTHER MESSAGE FROM THE
SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Byrd, one of its clerks, announced that
the Senate agrees to the House amend-
ment to the Senate amendment to the
bill (H.R. 1865) ‘‘An Act to require the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint a
coin in commemoration of the opening
of the National Law Enforcement Mu-
seum in the District of Columbia, and
for other purposes.’’.
The message also announced that the
Senate has passed a bill of the fol-
lowing title in which the concurrence
of the House is requested:
S. 1822. An Act to require the Federal Com-
munications Commission to issue rules re-
lating to the collection of data with respect
to the availability of broadband services, and
for other purposes.
The message also announced that the
Senate agrees to the amendment of the
House of Representatives to the bill (S.
151) ‘‘An Act to deter criminal robocall
violations and improve enforcement of
section 227(b) of the Communications
Act of 1934, and for other purposes.’’.
f
RESIGNATION AS MEMBER OF
PERMANENT SELECT COM-
MITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following resigna-
tion as a member of the Permanent Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, December 19, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: I hereby resign
from the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence, effective today.
Sincerely,
JIM JORDAN,
Member of Congress.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the resignation is accepted.
There was no objection.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO
PERMANENT SELECT COM-
MITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to clause 11 of
rule X, clause 11 of rule I, and the order
of the House of January 3, 2019, of the
following Member of the House to the
Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence:
Mr. CRAWFORD, Arkansas, to rank
after Mr. STEWART of Utah.
f
PROTECTING HAWAII’S UNIQUE
AND FRAGILE ENVIRONMENT
(Mr. CASE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to introduce my bill to protect
one of the most unique and fragile en-
vironments on Earth, my Hawaii, from
devastating invasive species.
Isolated Hawaii has one of the high-
est number and rate of endemic species
anywhere. Invasive species have
wreaked havoc on our natural environ-
ment as well as Hawaii agriculture.
In the last 200 years alone, countless
plant and animal species have gone ex-
tinct, in large part because of
invasives.
Leading countries have required
strict invasive prevention measures.
Even the continental United States re-
quires inspections of goods from Ha-
waii to prevent the introduction of spe-
cies that may damage mainland crops.
Yet, Hawaii’s prevention regime is
weak. My bill simply says that if these
invasive species prevention require-
ments are good enough for the rest of
the country and much of the world,
then they are good enough for Hawaii.
f
INDICTING CONGRESS FOR ABUSE
OF POWER
(Mr. MASSIE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MASSIE. Madam Speaker, just a
few hours ago, this body voted for im-
peachment, so I rise today to speak
about an abuse of power.
Congress has the sole power to de-
clare war and the awesome responsi-
bility to decide when, where, and for
what purposes our soldiers will be
asked to give their lives. Eighteen
years ago, this body misappropriated
that power by issuing an open-ended
authorization to commit our soldiers
to fight anywhere on the globe.
The so-called war on terror has
claimed the lives of more American
soldiers than lives of civilians who
were lost on 9/11, not to mention over
100,000 lives of foreigners not associ-
ated with terror.
In the last week, this Chamber has
passed over 6,000 pages of legislation,
and it spent over a trillion dollars.
Tragically, we just funded the 19th
year of the war in Afghanistan, with-
out changing or even defining a strat-
egy for winning or ending that war.
So I close by indicting this very body
for an abuse of power: abuse of our war
powers and abuse of our power of the
purse.
f
USMCA FAILS TO ADDRESS
CLIMATE CRISIS
(Mr. TONKO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TONKO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in opposition to the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.
While I am grateful that congres-
sional Democrats worked very hard to
improve the initial agreement, it still
falls short in some critical areas. Let
me address one.
There is an undeniable and unbreak-
able link between trade and climate
pollution. Unfortunately, this agree-
ment does not adequately address the
ongoing and immediate climate crisis
that we face.
For 25 years, we have watched as
NAFTA painfully outsourced American
jobs. Under this agreement, we will see
the continued outsourcing of pollution,
undermining our domestic and inter-
national efforts to address climate
change.
The United States must get serious
about this challenge and build inter-
national cooperation and commitments
through all vehicles available to us, in-
cluding our trade agreements.
Trade negotiations do not happen fre-
quently, but their impact is felt for
generations. I cannot support a deal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.056 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12286 December 19, 2019
which fails to even acknowledge the
global climate crisis that future gen-
erations will be left to bear.
f
b 1630
CELEBRATING THE LIFE AND
MILITARY LEGACY OF MORTON
‘‘SHEA’’ LANDY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to cele-
brate the life and the incredible mili-
tary legacy of Morton ‘‘Shea’’ Landy.
Morton passed away on November 25
at the age of 90 in Curwensville, Penn-
sylvania.
Morton was a longtime resident of
Clearfield County, Pennsylvania, al-
though his military service took him
across the world throughout his career.
After enlisting in the Marine Corps
in 1946, Morton would go on to serve in
Japan shortly after World War II, in
the Caribbean during the Cuban Missile
Crisis, and in Vietnam during the
height of the Vietnam war, to name a
few.
After 32 years of faithfully serving
our Nation both domestically and
abroad, Morton retired from the Ma-
rine Corps. He would finish his military
career with not only the highest en-
listed rank possible, but as the second
highest sergeant major in the Marines.
Even still, Morton’s service did not
stop there. In retirement, he spent
much of his time volunteering on be-
half of the Clearfield County Historical
Society, his local VFW, and the Marine
Corps League.
The passing of Morton Landy is a
profound loss, and I offer my sincerest
condolences to Morton’s family and to
those who were forever touched by his
commitment to service.
f
PRAISING THE IMPEACHMENT
VOTE
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to praise my House colleagues
for their votes to impeach President
Donald Trump last night. I know it was
not easy for many of them, but when
called to make the tough choice, they
proved themselves true patriots: They
chose to protect and defend our coun-
try and our Constitution from a Presi-
dent who has little regard for either.
Foreign influence in American affairs
was the Founding Fathers’ biggest
fear. That is why Presidents must be
natural-born citizens.
But now we have a President who
profits from foreign officials staying at
his hotels, who solicits foreign inter-
ference in our elections, and who at-
tacks everything American, including
our courts, FBI, veterans, Gold Star
families, and even our citizens.
The Founding Fathers would have
been extremely proud of what we did
last night. That is why I am proud to
be a Member of a Congress that fights
for the public good and not personal
profit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
APPRECIATING INDIA
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, as we, today, close
this year’s legislative session, I am
grateful to reflect on significant oppor-
tunities experienced in 2019.
My highlight was my continued asso-
ciation with India as former co-chair of
the Congressional Caucus on India and
Indian Americans, continuing my fam-
ily’s 75-year appreciation of India.
In August, I visited Mumbai to pay
respects at the locations of the Islamic
extremist attacks of November 26, 2018,
the Indian equivalent of the 9/11 mass
murder.
The Independence Day address by
Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New
Delhi was inspiring on August 15.
In September, it was extraordinary
to be present in Houston for the Howdy
Modi welcome of Prime Minister Modi
by President Donald Trump. With
52,000 persons attending, it was the
largest welcome event in American his-
tory for a head of state.
At the same time, the Indian Par-
liament, with multiparty support,
voided the constitutional autonomy of
Kashmir, supporting the Prime Min-
ister’s efforts to boost economic devel-
opment, fight corruption, and end gen-
der, cast, and religious discrimination.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism
with the leadership of President Don-
ald Trump.
Americans are grateful, as the
world’s oldest democracy, to see India
succeed as the world’s largest democ-
racy.
f
CONGRATULATING JONAS ON HIS
GRADUATION FROM COLLEGE
(Ms. CRAIG asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, today I
congratulate my son Jonas, who grad-
uates tomorrow from North Dakota
State University’s College of Agri-
culture and Applied Science.
When Jonas was in high school, he
took postsecondary education classes
at Inver Hills Community College, al-
lowing him to graduate with a degree
in natural resources management from
NDSU in 31⁄2 years.
I have four sons, and Jonas has al-
ways been the peacekeeper. He got into
less—well, actually, no trouble that I
know of in high school, and he is such
a loyal friend that he went to college
with his three best friends.
Of course, I didn’t want Jonas to
leave Minnesota for college, but he de-
cided that Minnesota just wasn’t cold
enough for him, so he moved to Fargo.
Now that he is done tomorrow, I
couldn’t be happier to welcome him
back home to Minnesota.
Congratulations, Jonas.
f
IMPEACHMENT WAS A SHAM
(Mr. BYRNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, for weeks,
we were told that we couldn’t wait, we
had to go forward with impeachment
before Christmas, that the Republic
was at stake. And then this House
passed a purely partisan impeachment
yesterday, and the Speaker has decided
to hold the Articles of Impeachment.
That underscores the word ‘‘sham.’’
That puts an exclamation point after
the word ‘‘sham.’’ That shows what a
ridiculous exercise we just went
through.
We can’t dictate to the Senate how
they handle their trial. They get to
pick that.
This shows that they got cold feet on
the other side. They don’t have a case.
They can’t win a fair trial in the Sen-
ate, and they know it, and they are
afraid to send the articles over there
where it will get the fair trial and not
the kangaroo court we had here.
f
THERE IS STILL TIME TO DE-
LIVER THE AMERICAN FAMILY’S
HOLIDAY WISH LIST
(Ms. WEXTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. WEXTON. Mr. Speaker, when the
American people sent us to Congress,
they sent us here with policies they
wished us to act upon—a wish list, if
you will. And now, in the holiday sea-
son, let’s reflect on what we have deliv-
ered for the American people from that
wish list.
Federal workers will receive a 3.1
percent pay increase and, for the first
time ever, 12 weeks of paid parental
leave—two important priorities that I
have fought for since I was sworn into
office.
Just last week, we passed sweeping
legislation that would help lower the
skyrocketing cost of prescription
drugs.
We also voted for universal back-
ground checks, equal pay for equal
work, a living wage for hardworking
Americans, equal protections for
LGBTQ Americans, action on climate
change, protection for Dreamers and
TPS recipients, reauthorizing the Vio-
lence Against Women Act, and hun-
dreds of other bipartisan bills.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.090 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12287
December 19, 2019
But, Mr. Speaker, the House can’t
fulfill its wish list all on our own. We
need the Senate to vote on the bills
that we passed in this Chamber. And
just like the Grinch whose heart grew
three sizes just in time to save Christ-
mas, Senator MCCONNELL can still de-
liver on the American family’s holiday
wish list.
f
RECOGNIZING DR. PAM MOBLEY
FOR HER HUMANITARIAN EF-
FORTS IN THE BAHAMAS
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Dr. Pam Mobley, a
physician from Knoxville. Dr. Mobley
has been in the Bahamas since Sep-
tember assisting with medical relief ef-
forts in the aftermath of Hurricane Do-
rian.
Dr. Mobley was on Green Turtle Cay
in the Abaco Islands when Hurricane
Dorian began battering the Bahamas.
The storm displaced the local per-
sonnel on Green Turtle Cay, but Dr.
Mobley decided to wait it out. Once it
was safe, she began providing medical
assistance to those injured in the hur-
ricane.
Even though Dr. Mobley could have
returned to the United States months
ago, she has remained in the Bahamas
to care for the injured and help with
relief efforts. Her selfless actions are
truly remarkable.
I applaud Dr. Mobley for her humani-
tarian efforts in the Bahamas and
thank her for being an excellent rep-
resentative of the Knoxville commu-
nity.
I know I speak for many in east Ten-
nessee when I say Pam is making us all
very, very proud, Mr. Speaker.
f
COLLEGE AFFORDABILITY
(Ms. SHALALA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, today
millions of Americans are working to
pay off their student debt. This is al-
ready an enormous burden for those
who have graduated from reputable
schools, but it is nearly impossible for
those who attend schools that failed to
live up to their responsibilities to their
students.
Predatory for-profit institutions re-
cruit students with false promises and
leave them with worthless degrees and
thousands of dollars of debt. These
schools are prone to sudden closure,
leaving students stranded, with no re-
course to continue their education.
The College Affordability Act works
to solve these pressing issues that
plague far too many students. The bill
would prevent sudden closure of col-
leges by requiring creditors to act on
warning signs. Finally, it would close
the GI Bill loophole that allows for-
profit colleges to take advantage of our
brave veterans.
I urge my colleagues to support this
crucial legislation and hold the schools
accountable to their students.
f
RECOGNIZING TRI GLOBAL EN-
ERGY ON THEIR 10–YEAR ANNI-
VERSARY
(Mr. ARRINGTON asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, west
Texas is the breadbasket and energy
basin of the United States of America.
Our producers feed, clothe, and fuel
this great Nation—and not with just
conventional fuels, Mr. Speaker.
Texas is, by far, the largest producer
of wind energy in the Nation. This is
not only good for rural economies, but
it also diversifies our energy produc-
tion, and helps support our Nation’s en-
ergy independence for future genera-
tions.
Today, I would like to recognize one
of our outstanding west Texas wind en-
ergy developers, Tri Global Energy,
and its CEO and good friend, John B.
Billingsley, as they celebrate their 10th
anniversary this year.
I commend Tri Global for their excel-
lence in renewable energy over the past
decade, and I wish them the very best
success in the decades to come.
f
TURKEY AND NATO
(Mr. HILL of Arkansas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker,
Turkey’s leader has threatened to shut
down Incirlik Air Base in retaliation
for possible U.S. sanctions related to
the Syrian border incursion and the
House’s acknowledgment of the Arme-
nian genocide a century ago.
What a sad day for the Atlantic Alli-
ance that has shouldered so many bur-
dens and shared so much loss in blood
and treasure.
Since the end of World War II, Amer-
ica has backed Turkey and her inde-
pendence and freedom from Soviet
domination, culminating with Turkey
joining the Alliance in 1952.
I am an original cosponsor of Rep-
resentative KINZINGER’s United States-
Turkey Relations Review Act. This bill
would require us to carefully assess the
options for relocating American per-
sonnel and assets from Incirlik Air
Base.
Given Turkey’s purchase of the Rus-
sian air defense system, the incursion
in northeast Syria, and now threat-
ening to close Incirlik, Turkey is not
acting like a true and reliable partner.
Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan’s pro-
vocative behavior merits the U.S. and
other NATO allies to consider our op-
tions in the region.
JUST MERCY
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, we
have much to be thankful for in this
great and grand Nation.
We are thankful for our Constitution
that allows us to define what is right
and wrong.
I am thankful for all of the Ameri-
cans who will be with their families, all
of those who are documented and un-
documented individuals in this country
who have come for relief and refuge.
I am thankful for the Members of
Congress who uphold this Constitution.
And I am also thankful for the oppor-
tunity to salute Bryan Stevenson, who
has just turned his book, ‘‘Just
Mercy,’’ into a movie.
I look forward to working to reform
the juvenile justice system, to adding
my bills banning the box, banning soli-
tary confinement, and alternative sen-
tencing for our children.
Our children should be receiving re-
storative justice; and like Bryan Ste-
venson, I believe there is a future if we
invest in the future of our young peo-
ple.
So I intend to introduce, when we
come back from this time in our dis-
tricts, an omnibus, large juvenile jus-
tice reform bill that takes into consid-
eration our teachers, our law enforce-
ment, our social workers, our young
people, our faith community, and
Bryan Stevenson’s advanced and inno-
vative concept that delivers just
mercy.
Happy holidays. Merry Christmas.
Happy Kwanza to everyone in the
United States of America for this won-
derful holiday season.
f
b 1645
SHAMEFUL IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia. Mr.
Speaker, for the first time in recent
American history, the President of the
United States was impeached with only
Members of one party voting for it.
This has been a shameful, partisan ex-
ercise in the U.S. House from start to
finish.
Speaker NANCY PELOSI’s actions yes-
terday contradicted her previous state-
ments that impeachment should only
happen if it has bipartisan support.
Since the moment President Trump
was sworn into office, Democrats in
Congress had made it their mission to
remove him and overturn the results of
the 2016 election. On January 20, 2017,
The Washington Post wrote that the
effort to impeach President Donald
John Trump is underway—and indeed
it was.
President Trump did nothing wrong,
and these Articles of Impeachment
were totally meritless. The American
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.092 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12288 December 19, 2019
people and folks across West Virginia
have been able to witness this unjust
and unfair process.
Despite a rigged investigation and
process, Democrats could still not find
any real evidence of an actual crime. I
will continue to stand with President
Donald Trump as he fights back
against this baseless impeachment.
I look forward to a fair trial in the
U.S. Senate.
f
THE BIRTH OF JESUS CHRIST
FROM THE GOSPEL OF LUKE
(Mr. GUEST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, the story
of the birth of Jesus Christ from the
Gospel of Luke:
And it came to pass in those days that
there went out a decree from Caesar Augus-
tus that all the world should be taxed. And
this taxing was first made when Cyrenius
was Governor of Syria. And all went to be
taxed, everyone into his own city.
And Joseph also went up from Gal-
ilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into
Judaea, unto the city of David, which
is called Bethlehem, because he was of
the house and lineage of David, to be
taxed with Mary, his espoused wife,
being great with child.
And so it was that, while they were
there, the days were accomplished that
she should be delivered. And she
brought forth her firstborn Son, and
wrapped Him in swaddling clothes, and
laid Him in a manger; because there
was no room for them in the inn.
And there were in the same country
shepherds abiding in the field, keeping
watch over their flock by night. And,
lo, the angel of the Lord came upon
them, and the glory of the Lord shone
round about them, and they were sore
afraid.
And the angel said unto them: Fear
not, for, behold, I bring you good tid-
ings of great joy, which shall be to all
people. For unto you is born this day in
the city of David a Savior which is
Christ the Lord.
f
THE WAR ON PUTTING CHRIST IN
CHRISTMAS
(Mr. GROTHMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, that
was such a beautiful 1-minute speech,
it is hard to follow it. It was such a
great thing to say.
This morning when I got up, I read a
column by one of the talking heads
around here saying that there was a
fictional war on Christmas, and I
thought I might address the issue with
my 1-minute speech.
There may or may not be a war on
Christmas around here, but there is
certainly a war on putting Christ in
Christmas, and I am going to comment
on the background music that we hear
throughout the Christmas season.
In Washington, D.C., we have WASH,
a typical radio station around the
country. From 4 o’clock in the morning
until 1 o’clock this afternoon, the only
song that they played that mentioned
Christ was ‘‘God Rest You Merry, Gen-
tlemen.’’
This is corporate America at its best.
They have a list of their 50 favorite
songs for Christmas, and ‘‘God Rest
You Merry, Gentlemen’’ was 50. They
managed to find 49 great songs that
didn’t mention Christ.
If you get around shopping, Kohl’s
department store, and whatnot, Mr.
Speaker, you will again and again hear
the music background leaving out
‘‘Hark! The Herald Angels Sing,’’ ‘‘Joy
to the World,’’ ‘‘O Come, All Ye Faith-
ful’’—all the songs that people my age
grew up with.
I would hope that America will step
forward and be aware of this and de-
mand more of corporate America.
I finally would like to thank She-
boygan North High School in my dis-
trict for playing ‘‘Joy to the World’’
and ‘‘Away in a Manger’’ in the Christ-
mas parade.
f
SPEECH SHUT DOWN FOR
IMPEACHMENT
(Mr. GOHMERT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I am
here giving a 1-minute speech on the
last day of our legislative week be-
cause not only in Judiciary were we
prevented from having minority wit-
nesses come and having a minority wit-
ness day—the majority could have
changed the rules if they wanted but
they didn’t bother, they just violated
their own rules—we have special orders
every day, and that is 2 hours for each
party. But with impeachment going on,
the Speaker chose to shut down that
for the week and shut down the 5-min-
utes speeches, so she pretty well shut
down speeches that we normally are al-
lowed to have.
Normally, I would hope to read a
Christmas proclamation, but since I
am only allowed 3 more seconds, I will
just say: Merry Christmas and happy
new year.
f
SENATE BILL AND CONCURRENT
RESOLUTION REFERRED
A bill and a concurrent resolution of
the Senate of the following titles were
taken from the Speaker’s table and,
under the rule, referred as follows:
S. 153. An act to promote veteran involve-
ment in STEM education, computer science,
and scientific research, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology; in addition, to the Com-
mittee on Veteran’s Affairs for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
S. Con. Res. 31. Concurrent resolution rec-
ognizing the importance and significance of
the 2020 Census and encouraging individuals,
families, and households across the United
States to participate in the 2020 Census to
ensure a complete and accurate count; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
f
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled bills of the House of the fol-
lowing titles, which were thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.R. 150. An act to modernize Federal
grant reporting, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1138. An act to reauthorize the West
valley demonstration project, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 2333. An act to direct the Comptroller
General of the United States to conduct an
assessment of the responsibilities, workload,
and vacancy rates of Department of Veterans
Affairs suicide prevention coordinators, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 4566. An act to accelerate the income
tax benefits for charitable cash contribu-
tions for the relief of the families of victims
of the mass shooting in Virginia Beach, Vir-
ginia, on May 31, 2019.
f
SENATE ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
The Speaker announced her signa-
ture to enrolled bills of the Senate of
the following titles:
S. 50.—An act to authorize the Secretary of
the Interior to assess sanitation and safety
conditions at Bureau of Indian Affairs facili-
ties that were constructed to provide af-
fected Columbia River Treaty tribes access
to traditional fishing grounds and expend
funds on construction of facilities and struc-
tures to improve those conditions, and for
other purposes.
S. 216.—An act to provide for equitable
compensation to the Spokane Tribe of Indi-
ans of the Spokane Reservation for the use
of tribal land for the production of hydro-
power by the Grand Coulee Dam, and for
other purposes.
S. 256.—An act to amend the Native Amer-
ican Programs Act of 1974 to provide flexi-
bility and reauthorization to ensure the sur-
vival and continuing vitality of Native
American languages.
S. 737.—An act to direct the National
Science Foundation to support STEM edu-
cation research focused on early childhood.
S. 1790.—An act to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
f
BILL PRESENTED TO THE
PRESIDENT
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported that on December 17,
2019, she presented to the President of
the United States, for his approval, the
following bill:
H.R. 5363. To reauthorize mandatory fund-
ing programs for historically Black colleges
and universities and other minority-serving
institutions, and for other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
PAYNE). Pursuant to section 7(b) of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.095 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12289
December 19, 2019
House Resolution 758, the House stands
adjourned until 11 a.m. on Monday, De-
cember 23, 2019.
Thereupon (at 4 o’clock and 51 min-
utes p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Monday, Decem-
ber 23, 2019, at 11 a.m.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mrs. TORRES of California: Committee on
Rules. House Resolution 772. Resolution pro-
viding for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5377)
to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
to modify the limitation on deduction of
State and local taxes, and for other purposes
(Rept. 116–357). Referred to the House Cal-
endar.
Mr. NEAL: Committee on Ways and Means.
H.R. 5430. A bill to implement the Agreement
between the United States of America, the
United Mexican States, and Canada attached
as an Annex to the Protocol Replacing the
North American Free Trade Agreement
(Rept. 116–358, Pt. 1). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
Mr. DEUTCH: Committee on Ethics. In the
Matter of Allegations Relating to Represent-
ative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (Rept. 116–
359). Referred to the House Calendar.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ: Committee on Small
Business. H.R. 5130. A bill to amend the
Small Business Act to adjust the employ-
ment size standard requirements for deter-
mining whether a manufacturing concern is
a small business concern, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. 116–360). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ: Committee on Small
Business. H.R. 5146. A bill to amend the
Small Business Act to require contracting
officers to take a small business concern’s
past performance as part of a joint venture
into account when evaluating the small busi-
ness concern, and for other purposes (Rept.
116–361). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committees on Education and Labor,
Natural Resources, Foreign Affairs, the
Judiciary, the Budget, Transportation
and Infrastructure, Financial Services,
Agriculture, Energy and Commerce,
and Oversight and Reform discharged
from further consideration. H.R. 5430
referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. STEWART:
H.R. 5490. A bill to amend section 1105(a) of
title 31, United States Code, to require that
annual budget submissions of the President
to Congress provide an estimate of the cost
per taxpayer of the deficit and of the public
debt; to the Committee on the Budget.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for
himself, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. KELLY of
Mississippi, Mr. STIVERS, Ms.
STEFANIK, and Mrs. LURIA):
H.R. 5491. A bill to improve the fielding of
newest generations of personal protective
equipment to the Armed Forces, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself and Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 5492. A bill to repeal the Military Se-
lective Service Act, and thereby terminate
the registration requirements of such Act
and eliminate civilian local boards, civilian
appeal boards, and similar local agencies of
the Selective Service System; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
H.R. 5493. A bill to prohibit the Director of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
from awarding grants to entities that fund
or support gross violations of internationally
recognized human rights, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for
himself, Mr. CALVERT, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, Mr. RICE of South Carolina,
Mr. ROUZER, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. COOK,
Mr. BERA, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, and Mr.
AGUILAR):
H.R. 5494. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude from gross in-
come amounts received from State-based ca-
tastrophe loss mitigation programs; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BUTTERFIELD (for himself
and Mr. MEADOWS):
H.R. 5495. A bill to direct Federal agencies
to transfer excess Federal electronic equip-
ment, including computers, computer com-
ponents, printers, and fax machines, to edu-
cational recipients, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. PINGREE (for herself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. LARSEN of Washington,
and Mr. COURTNEY):
H.R. 5496. A bill to include Iceland in the
list of foreign states whose nationals are eli-
gible for admission into the United States as
E1 and E2 nonimmigrants if United States
nationals are treated similarly by the Gov-
ernment of Iceland, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. WESTERMAN (for himself, Mr.
GALLAGHER, and Mr. BURCHETT):
H.R. 5497. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to establish a
time-limited conditional approval pathway,
subject to specific obligations, for certain
drugs, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. CASE:
H.R. 5498. A bill to amend title 46, United
States Code, to allow transportation of mer-
chandise in noncontiguous trade on foreign-
flag vessels, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, and in addition to the Committee
on Education and Labor, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CASE:
H.R. 5499. A bill to provide a definition of
reasonable rate for noncontiguous domestic
ocean trade, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. CASE:
H.R. 5500. A bill to amend title 46, United
States Code, to exempt certain noncontig-
uous trade from the coastwise laws; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 5501. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to establish an Office of
Drug Manufacturing; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BRINDISI (for himself, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, and
Mr. GOSAR):
H.R. 5502. A bill to remove Federal barriers
regarding the offering of mobile sports wa-
gers on Indian lands when the applicable
State and Indian Tribe have reached an
agreement, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self, Ms. NORTON, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. BEYER, and Mr. RASKIN):
H.R. 5503. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to direct the Director of the Na-
tional Park Service to prioritize certain
funds for high-commuter corridors, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 5504. A bill to amend the National
Dam Safety Program Act with respect to the
definition of eligible high hazard potential
dam, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. TAKANO,
Mr. MCNERNEY, and Ms. HAALAND):
H.R. 5505. A bill to provide for the estab-
lishment of clean technology consortia to
enhance the economic, environmental, and
energy security of the United States by pro-
moting domestic development, manufacture,
and deployment of clean technologies, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CASE (for himself and Ms.
GABBARD):
H.R. 5506. A bill to amend the Farm Secu-
rity and Rural Investment Act of 2002 by re-
quiring preclearance quarantine inspections
for all movement to or from the State of Ha-
waii by either domestic or international
travel, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture.
By Mr. CRIST (for himself, Mr. RUTH-
ERFORD, and Mrs. DEMINGS):
H.R. 5507. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to require an alien lawfully ad-
mitted to the United States under a non-
immigrant visa to obtain the approval of the
Attorney General before receiving a firearm;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 5508. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to establish additional require-
ments for certain transportation projects
with estimated costs of $2,500,000,000 or more,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself and
Mr. BRINDISI):
H.R. 5509. A bill to deem certain cartel or-
ganizations to be foreign terrorist organiza-
tions pursuant to section 219 of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Mr. SABLAN, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mr. TIPTON, Ms. HAALAND, and Mr.
STANTON):
H.R. 5510. A bill to amend the Help Amer-
ica Vote Act of 2002 to explicitly authorize
distribution of grant funds to the voting ac-
cessibility protection and advocacy system
of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mar-
iana Islands and the system serving the
American Indian consortium, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on House Admin-
istration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE7.097 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12290 December 19, 2019
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 5511. A bill to require the Federal En-
ergy Regulatory Commission to initiate a
rulemaking to reform the interregional
transmission planning process, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. HOLDING (for himself and Mr.
PETERSON):
H.R. 5512. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on
indoor tanning services; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. LYNCH,
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mrs.
TRAHAN, Mr. NEAL, Ms. PRESSLEY,
and Mr. KEATING):
H.R. 5513. A bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act and the Safe
Drinking Water Act to modify the payment
periods of loans from State revolving funds
under those Acts, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for
herself, Mr. WELCH, Mr. CASTEN of Il-
linois, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr.
MORELLE, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, and
Ms. HAALAND):
H.R. 5514. A bill to amend the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act to establish a pro-
gram to provide loans to implement cost-ef-
fective energy efficiency measures, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for
herself, Mr. SCHRADER, Ms. BONAMICI,
and Mr. PAPPAS):
H.R. 5515. A bill to regulate certain State
impositions on interstate commerce; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LEVIN of California:
H.R. 5516. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to enter into contracts with
States or to award grants to States to pro-
mote health and wellness, prevent suicide,
and improve outreach to veterans, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. LEWIS (for himself, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. KHANNA,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr.
BERA):
H.R. 5517. A bill to affirm the friendship of
the governments of the United States of
America and the Republic of India, and to es-
tablish a bilateral partnership for collabora-
tion to advance development and shared val-
ues, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. MCEACHIN:
H.R. 5518. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to carry out a Clean Cities Coalition
Program, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.R. 5519. A bill to amend the America
COMPETES Act to improve measurement
and assessment capabilities for under-
standing proposed atmospheric interventions
in Earth’s climate, including, as a priority,
the effects of proposed interventions in the
stratosphere and in cloud-aerosol processes;
to the Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 5520. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand refundability and
increase simplification of the research credit
for certain small businesses; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 5521. A bill to amend title 40, United
States Code, to permit commercial
filmmaking and photography on the United
States Capitol grounds, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Mr.
WALTZ, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. KINZINGER,
and Mr. CROW):
H.R. 5522. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to modify the eligibility re-
quirements for transfer of unused entitle-
ment to Post-9/11 Educational Assistance,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, and Mr. SCHWEIKERT):
H.R. 5523. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide investment and
production tax credits for emerging energy
technologies, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. RICE of South Carolina:
H.R. 5524. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to conduct annual surveys
of veterans on experiences with medical fa-
cilities of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. RICE of South Carolina:
H.R. 5525. A bill to amend title 38 and title
5, United States Code, to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs and other officials
of the Department of Veterans Affairs to re-
ceive health care from the Department, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. SAN NICOLAS (for himself, Ms.
NORTON, and Mr. SABLAN):
H.R. 5526. A bill to provide for a nonvoting
delegate to the Senate to represent Amer-
ican Samoa, the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Puerto
Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. SARBANES (for himself, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. KENNEDY, and Mr.
VEASEY):
H.R. 5527. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish a program to provide fi-
nancial assistance for projects relating to
the modernization of the electric grid, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Ms. SHALALA (for herself and Mr.
SPANO):
H.R. 5528. A bill to establish a Congres-
sional Advisory Commission on Intercolle-
giate Athletics to investigate the relation-
ship between institutions of higher edu-
cation and intercollegiate athletic programs,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. SMITH of Washington:
H.R. 5529. A bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act to expand the exception to
the windfall elimination provision based on
years of coverage; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 5530. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Energy to establish a rebate program to pro-
mote the purchase and installation of pub-
licly accessible electric vehicle supply equip-
ment, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for
herself, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Ms. JAYAPAL, and Mr. RASKIN):
H.R. 5531. A bill to provide protection for
survivors of domestic violence or sexual as-
sault under the Fair Housing Act; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. WEXTON:
H.R. 5532. A bill to authorize the Director
of the National Science Foundation to estab-
lish prize competitions related to deep fake
detection technology; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H. Res. 773. A resolution electing certain
Members to a certain standing committee of
the House of Representatives; considered and
agreed to. considered and agreed to.
By Mr. DIAZ-BALART (for himself,
Mr. SIRES, Mr. MCCAUL, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. ROONEY of
Florida, and Mr. SMITH of New Jer-
sey):
H. Res. 774. A resolution calling for the im-
mediate release of Cuban democracy activist
José Daniel Ferrer and commending the ef-
forts of José Daniel Ferrer to promote
human rights and fundamental freedoms in
Cuba; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. MCCOLLUM (for herself, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia,
Mr. YOUNG, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, and Mr. FORTENBERRY):
H. Res. 775. A resolution recognizing and
honoring Smokey Bear’s 75 years of service
to the United States and commitment to
preventing unwanted human-caused wildfires
and promoting forest health; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, and in addition to the
Committee on Natural Resources, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN introduced a bill
(H.R. 5533) for the relief of Yazmin Fabiola
Juarez Coyoy; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. STEWART:
H.R. 5490.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Consitution.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
H.R. 5491.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
The Congress shall have the power to pro-
vide for the common defense.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 5492.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. BISHOP of Utah:
H.R. 5493.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 5494.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L19DE7.100 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12291
December 19, 2019
By Mr. BUTTERFIELD:
H.R. 5495.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the
Constitution, Congress has the power to col-
lect taxes and expend funds to provide for
the general welfare of the United States.
Congress may also make laws that are nec-
essary and proper for carrying into execution
their powers enumerated under Article I.
By Ms. PINGREE:
H.R. 5496.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. WESTERMAN:
H.R. 5497.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. CASE:
H.R. 5498.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CASE:
H.R. 5499.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CASE:
H.R. 5500.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 5501.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. BRINDISI:
H.R. 5502.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 5503.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 5504.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 5505.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 (relating to
the power of Congress to regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes.)
By Mr. CASE:
H.R. 5506.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CRIST:
H.R. 5507.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 5508.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
H.R. 5509.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. GALLEGO:
H.R. 5510.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 5511.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article One, section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. HOLDING:
H.R. 5512.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. KENNEDY:
H.R. 5513.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
H.R. 5514.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8—to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or any Department or Officer thereof’’.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
H.R. 5515.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8—to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or any Department or Officer thereof’’.
By Mr. LEVIN of California:
H.R. 5516.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 5517.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. MCEACHIN:
H.R. 5518.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.R. 5519.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 5520.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 5521.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 5522.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. REED:
H.R. 5523.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States; but
all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uni-
form throughout the United States.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: The Congress
shall have Power to regulate Commerce with
foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes.
By Mr. RICE of South Carolina:
H.R. 5524.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. RICE of South Carolina:
H.R. 5525.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18:
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. SAN NICOLAS:
H.R. 5526.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 of the Con-
stitution, Congress’s authority to make all
rule and regulations respecting the Terri-
tories and possessions.
By Mr. SARBANES:
H.R. 5527.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion under the General Welfare Clause
By Ms. SHALALA:
H.R. 5528.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts,
and Excises, to pay the Debts, and provide
for the common Defence and general Welfare
of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts
and Excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States.
By Mr. SMITH of Washington:
H.R. 5529.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 5530.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1. The Congress
shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States; but
all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uni-
form throughout the United States;
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ:
H.R. 5531.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. WEXTON:
H.R. 5532.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.015 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H12292 December 19, 2019
By Mrs. Watson Coleman:
H.R. 5533.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by the Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 20: Mr. GRIFFITH and Mr. JOHN W.
ROSE of Tennessee.
H.R. 30: Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 96: Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 129: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 172: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 191: Ms. FOXX of North Carolina.
H.R. 230: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 479: Mr. ROY.
H.R. 510: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 784: Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. JOHN W. ROSE
of Tennessee, and Mr. KINZINGER.
H.R. 808: Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 874: Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 891: Mr. ROY.
H.R. 921: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 946: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 1002: Mr. KEATING and Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 1043: Mr. BURGESS, Mr. GRAVES of Mis-
souri, and Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 1049: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 1108: Mr. COLE, Ms. WEXTON, Mr.
KELLY of Pennsylvania, and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 1139: Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 1175: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1228: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1296: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 1360: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1367: Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mrs. TRAHAN,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia, Mr. THOMPSON of California, Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 1374: Mr. GOTTHEIMER and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1379: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 1380: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 1407: Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. RICHMOND, and
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 1417: Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 1450: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 1530: Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana.
H.R. 1554: Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1570: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 1581: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 1683: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 1705: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 1715: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 1717: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1749: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1750: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1786: Mr. CARTWRIGHT and Mr. LARSON
of Connecticut.
H.R. 1873: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 1985: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 1987: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 1997: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2014: Mr. MCCARTHY.
H.R. 2073: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 2117: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. NEGUSE,
and Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 2214: Ms. FUDGE.
H.R. 2250: Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 2283: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 2293: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 2354: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2382: Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 2391: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H.R. 2411: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 2412: Mr. LOUDERMILK.
H.R. 2420: Ms. UNDERWOOD and Mr. HOYER.
H.R. 2433: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2466: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 2468: Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. HARDER of
California, Mr. LIPINSKI, and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2471: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2498: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2560: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 2585: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2616: Mr. KENNEDY and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 2693: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 2694: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 2704: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2739: Mr. ARRINGTON.
H.R. 2767: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 2771: Mr. BERGMAN.
H.R. 2777: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 2791: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 2802: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 2818: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2834: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 2843: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2857: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 2863: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 2868: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2881: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 2896: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 2931: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 2952: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2953: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 2976: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2977: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 3016: Mr. DELGADO and Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 3077: Ms. TLAIB, Ms. SCANLON, Ms.
SCHRIER, and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3114: Mrs. DINGELL and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 3138: Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 3208: Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 3215: Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 3219: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 3235: Mr. RUTHERFORD and Mrs.
NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 3306: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 3374: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 3451: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 3473: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 3509: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
KENNEDY, and Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 3524: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 3582: Ms. HOULAHAN and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 3588: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 3632: Mr. BURGESS and Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia.
H.R. 3828: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 3849: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 3934: Mr. ROY.
H.R. 4009: Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. LAMBORN,
and Mr. FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 4056: Mr. FORTENBERRY.
H.R. 4069: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 4078: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 4220: Mr. COHEN and Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 4254: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 4263: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 4280: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 4283: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 4370: Mr. BERGMAN.
H.R. 4399: Mr. STEUBE, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr.
GOHMERT, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr.
STAUBER, Mr. MITCHELL, and Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 4487: Mr. GARAMENDI and Mrs.
HARTZLER.
H.R. 4540: Mr. WELCH, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
SCANLON, and Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 4552: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 4563: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 4595: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4674: Mr. TED LIEU of California and
Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 4679: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 4681: Mr. MITCHELL and Mr. DIAZ-
BALART.
H.R. 4687: Mrs. FLETCHER and Mr. WEBER of
Texas.
H.R. 4732: Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 4764: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 4768: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 4801: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio and Ms.
MOORE.
H.R. 4881: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 4894: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4906: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 4913: Mr. GARAMENDI and Mr. MOONEY
of West Virginia.
H.R. 4945: Ms. PINGREE and Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 4951: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 4967: Mr. DELGADO and Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 4979: Mr. KIND, Mr. EMMER, Mr. HARD-
ER of California, and Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 4996: Mr. LARSEN of Washington and
Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 5003: Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio.
H.R. 5028: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 5041: Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
LEWIS, Mr. JEFFRIES, and Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 5056: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 5092: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 5097: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 5136: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 5139: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 5151: Ms. SÁNCHEZ and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 5170: Ms. CRAIG and Mr. BERGMAN.
H.R. 5191: Mr. DESAULNIER and Mr. LIPIN-
SKI.
H.R. 5210: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 5231: Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. QUIGLEY, and
Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 5233: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 5239: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 5297: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 5311: Ms. JACKSON LEE and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 5317: Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 5336: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 5337: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ and Mr.
OLSON.
H.R. 5356: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 5372: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 5410: Mr. CLINE and Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 5431: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 5434: Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. WEBSTER of
Florida, and Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 5439: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia and
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 5445: Mr. NEWHOUSE and Mr.
GIANFORTE.
H.R. 5450: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 5467: Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr. GIANFORTE,
Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr. MCCLINTOCK, and Mr.
GOSAR.
H.R. 5473: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 5480: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. GALLA-
GHER.
H.R. 5485: Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 5487: Mr. HARRIS and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H. J. Res. 2: Ms. HOULAHAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Ms. WILD, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr. CAS-
TRO of Texas, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Ms.
SCHRIER, and Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H. J. Res. 48: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H. Con. Res. 10: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H. Con. Res. 27: Mr. MCADAMS, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. TIPTON, Mrs.
WAGNER, Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee,
and Mr. WALKER.
H. Con. Res. 52: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H. Res. 189: Ms. BONAMICI and Mrs. LOWEY.
H. Res. 374: Ms. NORTON and Mr.
CUNNINGHAM.
H. Res. 452: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H. Res. 527: Mr. COOPER.
H. Res. 701: Ms. MOORE.
H. Res. 723: Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. MCGOVERN,
and Ms. MENG.
H. Res. 742: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 744: Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H. Res. 745: Ms. MOORE, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. WEXTON, Mr. COX of
California, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. POCAN, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. SARBANES, and Ms. WATERS.
H. Res. 752: Mr. VARGAS, Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico, and Mr. WRIGHT.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8472 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.020 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H12293
December 19, 2019
H. Res. 769: Mr. OLSON, Mr. MOONEY of West
Virginia, and Mr. BOST.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:34 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8472 E:\CR\FM\A19DE7.009 H19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S7167
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2019 No. 206
Senate
The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. and was
called to order by the Honorable THOM
TILLIS, a Senator from the State of
North Carolina.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, You are our light and
salvation, and we are not afraid. You
protect us from danger so we do not
tremble.
Mighty God, You are not intimidated
by the challenges that confront our Na-
tion and world.
Lord, inspire our lawmakers with the
knowledge of Your holiness that will
give them reverential awe. Remind
them of the many prayers they have
prayed that You have already an-
swered.
Lord, You have been our help in ages
past. You are our hope for the years to
come. We magnify Your Holy Name.
Don’t stay far off. Show Yourself
strong to this generation and fill us
with Your peace.
We pray in Your powerful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The legislative clerk read the fol-
lowing letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, December 19, 2019.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable THOM TILLIS, a Sen-
ator from the State of North Carolina, to
perform the duties of the Chair.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Mr. TILLIS thereupon assumed the
Chair as Acting President pro tempore.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Morning business is closed.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
MUSEUM COMMEMORATIVE COIN
ACT
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the House mes-
sage to H.R. 1865, which the clerk will
report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
House Message to accompany H.R. 1865, an
act to require the Secretary of the Treasury
to mint a coin in commemoration of the
opening of the National Law Enforcement
Museum in the District of Columbia, and for
other purposes.
Pending:
McConnell motion to concur in the
amendment of the House to the amend-
ment of the Senate to the bill.
McConnell motion to concur in the
amendment of the House to the amend-
ment of the Senate to the bill, with
McConnell Amendment No. 1258 (to the
House amendment to the Senate
amendment), to change the enactment
date.
McConnell Amendment No. 1259 (to
Amendment No. 1258), of a perfecting
nature.
McConnell motion to refer the mes-
sage of the House on the bill to the
Committee on Appropriations, with in-
structions, McConnell Amendment No.
1260, to change the enactment date.
McConnell Amendment No. 1261 (the
instructions (Amendment No. 1260) of
the motion to refer), of a perfecting na-
ture.
McConnell Amendment No. 1262 (to
Amendment No. 1261), of a perfecting
nature.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, last
night the House Democrats finally did
what they had decided to do a long
time ago. They voted to impeach Presi-
dent Trump.
Over the last 12 weeks, House Demo-
crats have conducted the most rushed,
least thorough, and most unfair im-
peachment inquiry in modern history.
Now their slapdash process has con-
cluded in the first purely partisan
Presidential impeachment since the
wake of the Civil War.
The opposition to impeachment was
bipartisan. Only one part of one faction
wanted this outcome. The House’s con-
duct risks deeply damaging the institu-
tions of American government. This
particular House of Representatives
has let its partisan rage at this par-
ticular President create a toxic new
precedent that will echo well into the
future.
That is what I want to discuss right
now—the historic degree to which
House Democrats have failed to do
their duty and what it will mean for
the Senate to do ours. So let’s start at
the beginning. Let’s start with the fact
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.000 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7168 December 19, 2019
that Washington Democrats made up
their minds to impeach President
Trump since before he was even inau-
gurated.
Here is a reporter in April of 2016—
April of 2016:
Donald Trump isn’t even the Republican
nominee yet . . . [but] ‘‘Impeachment’’ is al-
ready on the lips of pundits, newspaper edi-
torials, constitutional scholars, and even a
few Members of Congress.
April 2016.
On Inauguration Day 2017, the head-
line in the Washington Post: ‘‘The
campaign to impeach President Trump
has begun.’’ That was day one.
In April 2017, 3 months into the Presi-
dency, a senior House Democrat said:
‘‘I am going to fight every day until he
is impeached.’’ That was 3 months into
the administration.
In December 2017, 2 years ago, Con-
gressman JERRY NADLER was openly
campaigning to be the ranking member
on the House Judiciary Committee,
specifically—specifically—because he
was an expert on impeachment. That
was NADLER’s campaign to be the top
Democrat on Judiciary.
This week wasn’t even the first time
House Democrats have introduced arti-
cles of impeachment. It was actually
the seventh time. They started less
than 6 months after the President was
sworn in. They tried to impeach Presi-
dent Trump for being impolite to the
press, for being mean to professional
athletes, for changing President
Obama’s policy on transgender people
in the military. All of these things
were high crimes and misdemeanors
according to Democrats. Now, this
wasn’t just a few people.
Scores—scores—of Democrats voted
to move forward with impeachment on
three of those prior occasions. So let’s
be clear. The House’s vote yesterday
was not some neutral judgement that
Democrats came to with great reluc-
tance. It was the predetermined end of
a partisan crusade that began before
President Trump was even nominated,
let alone sworn in.
For the very first time in modern
history, we have seen a political fac-
tion in Congress promise from the mo-
ment—the moment—a Presidential
election ended that they would find
some way to overturn it.
A few months ago, Democrats’ 3-
year-long impeachment in search of ar-
ticles found its way to the subject of
Ukraine. House Democrats embarked
on the most rushed, least thorough,
and most unfair impeachment inquiry
in modern history. Chairman SCHIFF’s
inquiry was poisoned by partisanship
from the outset. Its procedures and pa-
rameters were unfair in unprecedented
ways. Democrats tried to make Chair-
man SCHIFF into a de facto special
prosecutor, notwithstanding the fact
that he is a partisan Member of Con-
gress who had already engaged in
strange and biased behavior.
He scrapped precedent to cut the Re-
publican minority out of the process.
He denied President Trump the same
sorts of procedural rights that Houses
of both parties had provided to past
Presidents of both parties. President
Trump’s counsel could not participate
in Chairman SCHIFF’s hearings, present
evidence, or cross-examine witnesses.
The House Judiciary Committee’s
crack at this was even more
ahistorical. It was like the Speaker
called up Chairman NADLER and or-
dered one impeachment, rush delivery,
please.
The committee found no facts on its
own and did nothing to verify the
Schiff report. Their only witnesses
were liberal law professors and con-
gressional staffers.
So there is a reason the impeachment
inquiry that led to President Nixon’s
resignation required about 14 months
of hearings—14 months—in addition to
a special prosecutor’s investigation.
With President Clinton, the inde-
pendent counsel’s inquiry had been un-
derway literally for years before the
House Judiciary Committee actually
dug in. There were mountains of evi-
dence—mountains—mountains of testi-
mony from firsthand fact witnesses,
and serious legal battles to get what
was necessary.
This time around? House Democrats
skipped all of that and spent just 12
weeks—12 weeks. There was more than
a year of hearings for Nixon, multiple
years of investigation for Clinton, and
they have impeached President Trump
in 12 weeks—12 weeks.
So let’s talk about what the House
actually produced in those 12 weeks.
House Democrats’ rushed and rigged
inquiry yielded two articles—two—of
impeachment. They are fundamentally
unlike any articles that any prior
House of Representatives has ever
passed.
The first article concerns the core
events which House Democrats claim
are impeachable—the timing of aid to
Ukraine. But it does not even purport
to allege any actual crime. Instead,
they deployed a vague phrase ‘‘abuse of
power’’—‘‘abuse of power’’—to impugn
the President’s action in a general, in-
determinate way.
Speaker PELOSI’s House just gave
into a temptation that every other
House in history has managed to resist.
Let me say that again. Speaker
PELOSI’s House just gave into a temp-
tation that every other House in our
history has managed to resist. They
impeach a President whom they do not
even allege has committed an actual
crime known to our laws. They have
impeached simply because they dis-
agree with a Presidential act and ques-
tion the motive behind it.
So let’s look at history. Andrew
Johnson’s impeachment revolved
around a clear violation of a criminal
statute, albeit an unconstitutional
statute. Nixon had obstruction of jus-
tice, a felony under our laws. Clinton
had perjury, also a felony.
Now, the Constitution does not say
the House can impeach only those
Presidents who violate a law, but his-
tory matters. History matters and
precedent matters.
There were important reasons why
every previous House of Representa-
tives in American history restrained
itself—restrained itself—from crossing
this Rubicon. The Framers of our Con-
stitution very specifically discussed
whether the House should be able to
impeach Presidents just for ‘‘mal-
administration’’—just for maladmin-
istration—in other words, because the
House simply thought the President
had bad judgment or he was doing a
bad job. They talked about all of this
when they wrote the Constitution.
The written records of our Founders’
debates show they specifically rejected
this. They realized it would create
total dysfunction to set the bar for im-
peachment that low.
James Madison himself explained
that allowing impeachment on that
basis would mean the President serves
at the pleasure of the Congress instead
of the pleasure of the American people.
It would make the President a creature
of Congress, not the head of a separate
and equal branch. There were powerful
reasons why Congress after Congress
for 230 years—230 years—required Pres-
idential impeachment to revolve
around clear, recognizable crimes, even
though that was not a strict limita-
tion—powerful reasons why, for 230
years, no House opened the Pandora’s
box of subjective, political impeach-
ments. That 230-year tradition died
last night.
House Democrats have tried to say
they had to impeach President Trump
on this historically thin and subjective
basis because the White House chal-
lenged their requests for more wit-
nesses.
That brings us to the second article
of impeachment. The House titled this
one ‘‘Obstruction of Congress.’’ What it
really does is impeach the President
for asserting Presidential privilege.
The concept of executive privilege is
another two-century-old constitutional
tradition. Presidents starting with
George Washington have invoked it.
Federal courts have repeatedly af-
firmed it is a legitimate constitutional
power.
House Democrats requested extraor-
dinary amounts of sensitive informa-
tion from President Trump’s White
House, exactly the kinds of things over
which Presidents of both parties have
asserted privilege in the past.
Predictably, and appropriately,
President Trump did not simply roll
over. He defended the constitutional
authority of his office. There is no sur-
prise there. It is not a constitutional
crisis for a House to want more infor-
mation than a President wants to give
up. That is not a constitutional crisis.
It is a routine occurrence. The separa-
tion of powers is messy by design.
Here is what should have happened:
Either the President and Congress ne-
gotiate a settlement or the third
branch of government, the Judiciary,
addresses the dispute between the
other two.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.001 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7169
December 19, 2019
The Nixon impeachment featured dis-
agreements over Presidential privilege,
so they went to the courts. The Clinton
impeachment featured disagreements
over Presidential privilege, so they
went to the courts. This takes time. It
is inconvenient. That is actually the
point. Due process is not meant to
maximize the convenience of the pros-
ecutor. It is meant to protect the ac-
cused, but this time was different.
Remember, 14 months of hearings for
Richard Nixon, years of investigation
for Bill Clinton, but 12 weeks for Don-
ald Trump. Democrats didn’t have to
rush this, but they chose to stick to
their political timetable at the expense
of pursuing more evidence through
proper legal channels. Nobody made
Chairman SCHIFF do this. He chose to.
The Tuesday before last, on live tele-
vision, ADAM SCHIFF explained to the
entire country that if House Democrats
had let the justice system follow its
normal course, they might not have
gotten to impeach the President in
time for the election. My goodness.
In Nixon, the courts were allowed to
do their work. In Clinton, the courts
were allowed to do their work. Only
these House Democrats decided due
process is too much work, and they
would rather impeach with no proof.
They tried to cover for their own par-
tisan impatience by pretending the
routine occurrence of a President ex-
erting constitutional privilege is
itself—itself—a second impeachable of-
fense.
The following is something ADAM
SCHIFF literally said in early October.
Here is what he said: ‘‘Any action . . .
that forces us to litigate, or have to
consider litigation, will be considered
further evidence of obstruction of jus-
tice.’’ That is ADAM SCHIFF.
Here is what the chairman effectively
said and what one of his committee
members restated just this week: If the
President asserts his constitutional
right, it is that much more evidence he
is guilty.
If the President asserts his constitu-
tional rights, it is that much more evi-
dence he is guilty.
That kind of bullying is antithetical
to American justice. Those are the
House Democrats’ two Articles of Im-
peachment. That is all their rushed and
rigged inquiry could generate: an act
that the House does not even allege is
criminal and a nonsensical claim that
exercising a legitimate Presidential
power is somehow an impeachable of-
fense.
This is, by far, the thinnest basis for
any House-passed Presidential im-
peachment in American history—the
thinnest and the weakest, and nothing
else even comes close.
Candidly, I don’t think I am the only
person around here who realizes this.
Even before the House voted yesterday,
Democrats had already started to sig-
nal uneasiness—uneasiness—with its
end product.
Before the articles even passed, the
Senate Democratic leader went on tele-
vision to demand this body redo House
Democrats’ homework for them; that
the Senate should supplement Chair-
man SCHIFF’s sloppy work so it is more
persuasive than Chairman SCHIFF him-
self bothered to make it. Of course,
every such demand simply confirms
that House Democrats have rushed for-
ward with a case that is much too
weak.
In June, Speaker PELOSI promised
the House would ‘‘build an ironclad
case.’’ Never mind that she was basi-
cally promising impeachment
months—months—before the Ukraine
events, but that is a separate matter.
She promised ‘‘an ironclad case.’’
In March, Speaker PELOSI said this:
‘‘Impeachment is so divisive to the
country that unless there’s something
so compelling and overwhelming and
bipartisan, I don’t think we should go
down that path, because it divides the
country.’’
By the Speaker’s own standards, she
has failed the country. This case is not
compelling, not overwhelming, and as a
result not bipartisan. The failure was
made clear to everyone earlier this
week when Senator SCHUMER began
searching for ways the Senate could
step out of our proper role and try to
fix the House Democrats’ failures for
them.
It was made even more clear last
night when Speaker PELOSI suggested
that House Democrats may be too
afraid—too afraid—to even transmit
their shoddy work product to the Sen-
ate.
It looks like the prosecutors are get-
ting cold feet in front of the entire
country and second-guessing whether
they even want to go to trial. They
said impeachment was so urgent that
it could not even wait for due process
but now they are content to sit on
their hands. This is really comical.
Democrats’ own actions concede that
their allegations are unproven. The ar-
ticles aren’t just unproven; they are all
constitutionally incoherent—incoher-
ent. Frankly, if either of these articles
is blessed by the Senate, we could eas-
ily see the impeachment of every fu-
ture President of either party.
Let me say that again. If the Senate
blesses this historically low bar, we
will invite the impeachment of every
future President. The House Demo-
crats’ allegations, as presented, are in-
compatible with our constitutional
order. They are unlike anything that
has ever been seen in 230 years of this
Republic.
House Democrats want to create new
rules for this President because they
feel uniquely enraged—they feel
uniquely enraged. Long after the par-
tisan fever of this moment has broken,
the institutional damage will remain.
I have described the threat to the
Presidency, but this also imperils the
Senate itself. The House has created an
unfair, unfinished product that looks
nothing—nothing—like any impeach-
ment inquiry in American history. If
the Speaker ever gets her House in
order, that mess will be dumped over
here on the Senate’s lap.
If the Senate blesses this slapdash
impeachment—if we say that from now
on this is enough—then we invite an
endless parade of impeachable trials.
Future Houses of either party will feel
free to toss a ‘‘jump ball’’ every time
they feel angry—free to swamp the
Senate with trial after trial no matter
how baseless the charges.
We would be giving future Houses of
either party unbelievable new power to
paralyze the Senate at their whim—
more thin arguments, more incomplete
evidence, more partisan impeachments.
In fact, this same House of Rep-
resentatives has already indicated they
themselves may not be finished im-
peaching. The House Judiciary Com-
mittee told a Federal court this very
week that it will continue its impeach-
ment investigation even after voting
on these articles, and multiple Demo-
cratic Members have already called
publicly for more.
If the Senate blesses this, if the Na-
tion accepts this, Presidential im-
peachments may cease being once-in-a-
generation events and become a con-
stant part—a constant part—of the po-
litical background noise. This extraor-
dinary tool of last resort may become
just another part of the arms race of
polarization.
Real statesmen would have recog-
nized, no matter their view of this
President, that trying to remove him
on this thin and partisan basis could
unsettle the foundations of our Repub-
lic.
Real statesmen would have recog-
nized, no matter how much partisan
animosity might be coursing through
their veins, that cheapening the im-
peachment process was not the answer.
Historians will refer to this as the
very irony of our era: that so many
who professed such concern for our
norms and traditions themselves
proved willing to trample our constitu-
tional order to get their way.
It is long past time for Washington
to get a little perspective. President
Trump is not the first President with a
populist streak, not the first to make
entrenched elites uncomfortable. He is
certainly not the first President to
speak bluntly, to mistrust the adminis-
trative state, or to rankle unelected
bureaucrats. Heaven knows, he is not
the first President to assert the con-
stitutional privileges of his office rath-
er than roll over when Congress de-
mands unlimited sensitive informa-
tion. None of these things—none of
them—is unprecedented.
I will tell you what would be unprec-
edented. It will be an unprecedented
constitutional crisis if the Senate lit-
erally hands the House of Representa-
tives a new, partisan ‘‘vote of no con-
fidence’’ that the Founders inten-
tionally withheld, destroying the inde-
pendence of the Presidency. It will be
unprecedented if we agree that any fu-
ture House that disliked any future
President can rush through an unfair
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.003 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7170 December 19, 2019
inquiry, skip the legal system, and
paralyze the Senate with a trial. The
House can do that at will under this
President. It will be unprecedented if
the Senate says secondhand and third-
hand testimony from unelected civil
servants is enough to overturn the peo-
ple’s vote. It will be an unprecedented
constitutional crisis if the Senate
agrees to set the bar this low—forever.
It is clear what this moment re-
quires. It requires the Senate to fulfill
our founding purpose. The Framers
built the Senate to provide stability, to
take the long view of our Republic, to
safeguard institutions from the mo-
mentary hysteria that sometimes con-
sumes our politics, and to keep par-
tisan passions from literally boiling
over. The Senate exists for moments
like this.
That is why this body has the ulti-
mate say in impeachments. The Fram-
ers knew the House would be too vul-
nerable to transient passions and vio-
lent factionalism. They needed a body
that could consider legal questions
about what has been proven and polit-
ical questions about what the common
good of our Nation requires. Hamilton
said explicitly in Federalist 65 that im-
peachment involves not just legal ques-
tions but inherently political judg-
ments about what outcome best serves
the Nation. The House can’t do both.
The courts can’t do both.
This is as grave an assignment as the
Constitution gives to any branch of
government, and the Framers knew
only the Senate could handle it. Well,
the moment the Framers feared has ar-
rived. A political faction in the lower
Chamber has succumbed to partisan
rage. A political faction in the House of
Representatives has succumbed to a
partisan rage. They have fulfilled Ham-
ilton’s prophesy that impeachment will
‘‘connect itself with the pre-existing
factions . . . enlist all their animos-
ities . . . [and] there will always be the
greatest danger that the decision will
be regulated more by the comparative
strength of parties, than by the real
demonstrations of innocence or guilt.’’
Alexander Hamilton.
That is what happened in the House
last night. The vote did not reflect
what had been proven; it only reflects
how they feel about the President.
The Senate must put this right. We
must rise to the occasion. There is only
one outcome that is suited to the pau-
city of evidence, the failed inquiry, the
slapdash case. There is only one out-
come suited to the fact that the accu-
sations themselves are constitutionally
incoherent. There is only one outcome
that will preserve core precedents rath-
er than smash them into bits in a fit of
partisan rage because one party still
cannot accept the American people’s
choice in 2016. It could not be clearer
which outcome would serve the stabi-
lizing, institution-preserving, fever-
breaking role for which the U.S. Senate
was created and which outcome would
betray it.
The Senate’s duty is clear. The Sen-
ate’s duty is clear. When the time
comes, we must fulfill it.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there are three bills at the
desk due for a second reading en bloc.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will read the titles of
the bills for the second time en bloc.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 397) to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to create a Pension Reha-
bilitation Trust Fund, to establish a Pension
Rehabilitation Administration within the
Department of the Treasury to make loans
to multiemployer defined benefit plans, and
for other purposes.
A bill (H.R. 1759) to amend title III of the
Social Security Act to extend reemployment
services and eligibility assessments to all
claimants for unemployment benefits, and
for other purposes.
A bill (H.R. 4018) to provide that the
amount of time that an elderly offender
must serve before being eligible for place-
ment in home detention is to be reduced by
the amount of good time credits earned by
the prisoner, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bills on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I would object to
further proceedings en bloc.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Objection having been heard, the
bills will be placed on the calendar en
bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Democratic leader is recog-
nized.
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last
night, the House of Representatives
voted to impeach President Donald
Trump. It is only the third time in our
Nation’s history that the President of
the United States has been impeached.
The articles of impeachment charge
that President Trump abused the pow-
ers of his office by soliciting the inter-
ference of a foreign power in our elec-
tions, not for the good of the country
but to benefit himself personally. The
articles also charge that the President
obstructed Congress in the investiga-
tion of those matters. Together, these
articles suggest the President com-
mitted a grave injury to our grand de-
mocracy.
The conduct they describe is very
much what the Founders feared when
they forged the impeachment powers of
the Congress. The Founders, in their
wisdom, gave the House the power to
accuse and the Senate the power to
judge. We are now asked to fulfill our
constitutional role as a court of im-
peachment.
Now that the House of Representa-
tives has impeached President Trump,
the Nation turns its eyes to the Senate.
What will the Nation see? Will the Na-
tion see what Alexander Hamilton
saw—a body of government with ‘‘con-
fidence enough . . . to preserve,
unawed and uninfluenced, the nec-
essary impartiality,’’ or will the Na-
tion see the Senate dragged into the
depths of partisan fervor?
The Nation just witnessed how the
Republican leader sees his role in this
chapter of our history—demonstrating
both an unfortunate descent into par-
tisanship and demonstrating the funda-
mental weakness of the President’s de-
fense.
Leader MCCONNELL claimed that the
impeachment of President Trump is il-
legitimate because the House voted
along party lines. Forgive me, but
House Democrats cannot be held re-
sponsible for the cravenness of the
House Republican caucus and their
blind fealty to the President.
Leader MCCONNELL claimed that the
impeachment was motivated by par-
tisan rage—this from the man who said
proudly, ‘‘I am not impartial. I have no
intention to be impartial at all’’ in the
trial of President Trump. What hypoc-
risy.
Leader MCCONNELL accused the
House Democrats of an obsession to get
rid of President Trump—this from the
man who proudly declared his ‘‘number
one goal’’ was to make President
Obama a one-term President.
Leader MCCONNELL claimed that
Democrats impeached the President for
asserting Executive privilege. Presi-
dent Trump never formally claimed
Executive privilege; he claimed ‘‘abso-
lute immunity,’’ and the White House
Counsel wrote a letter stating simply
that the administration would not
comply with any subpoenas.
Leader MCCONNELL claimed that the
Democrats’ ‘‘obsession’’ with impeach-
ment has prevented the House from
pursuing legislation to help the Amer-
ican people. Leader MCCONNELL knows
very, very well that the House Demo-
cratic majority has passed literally
hundreds of bills that gather dust here
in the Senate, condemned to a legisla-
tive graveyard by none other than
Leader MCCONNELL himself, who proud-
ly called himself the Grim Reaper.
Members of the 116th Senate have
been denied the opportunity to legis-
late by Leader MCCONNELL. We aren’t
even allowed to debate the issues that
would impact the American people:
healthcare, infrastructure, prescription
drugs. We could have spent the year de-
bating these issues. We weren’t doing
impeachment. Leader MCCONNELL has
chosen not to focus on these issues and
to put none of these bills on the floor.
As he reminds us often, he alone de-
cides what goes on the floor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:55 Jan 03, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\S19DE9.REC S19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7171
December 19, 2019
Leader MCCONNELL claimed that the
House did not afford the President due
process. The leader knows well that
President Trump refused to participate
in the process, despite invitation, and
blocked witnesses and documents from
Congress in unprecedented fashion.
Leader MCCONNELL claimed that the
House ran the ‘‘most rushed, least
thorough, and most unfair impeach-
ment inquiry in modern history.’’ I
know that is the Republican talking
point, but here is the reality: Leader
MCCONNELL is plotting the most
rushed, least thorough, and most un-
fair impeachment trial in modern his-
tory. His plan to prevent House man-
agers from calling witnesses to prove
their case is a dramatic break from
precedent.
We heard a lot about precedent from
the leader. Never has there been a
Presidential impeachment trial in
which the majority prevented the
House managers from fairly presenting
their case, to have witnesses explain
their knowledge of the alleged malfea-
sance. Will Leader MCCONNELL, break-
ing precedent, strong-arm his caucus
into making this the first Senate im-
peachment trial of a President in his-
tory that heard no witnesses?
We ask: Is the President’s case so
weak that none of the President’s men
can defend him under oath? Is the
President’s case so weak that none of
the President’s men can defend him
under oath? If the House case is so
weak, why is Leader MCCONNELL so
afraid of witnesses and documents? We
believe the House case is strong, very
strong, but if the Republican leader be-
lieves it is so weak, why is he so afraid
of relevant witnesses and documents,
which will not prolong things very long
in our proposal—four hours for each
witness?
It is true, as the leader has said, that
the Framers built the Senate to pro-
vide stability and to keep partisan pas-
sions from boiling over. However, their
vision of the Senate is a far cry from
the partisan body Senator MCCONNELL
has created.
I hope America was watching the Re-
publican leader deliver his speech. I
really do, because most glaring of all
was the fact that Leader MCCONNELL’s
30-minute partisan stem-winder con-
tained hardly a single defense of the
President of the United States on the
merits. Almost none have defended
President Trump because they can’t.
In the wake of an enormous amount
of evidence uncovered by House inves-
tigators—much of it in the form of tes-
timony by top Trump officials whom
the administration tried to silence—
the Republican leader could not rebut
the accusations against the President
with facts. The Republican leader com-
plained about the process. The Repub-
lican leader made very partisan and in-
flammatory accusations about Demo-
crats, but he did not advance an argu-
ment in defense of the President’s con-
duct on the merits. That, in and of
itself, is a damning reflection on the
state of the President’s defense.
Our goal in the Senate, above all,
should be to conduct a fair and speedy
trial. I have proposed a very reasonable
structure that would do just that: four
witnesses, only those with direct
knowledge of the charges made by the
House; only those who could provide
new, relevant and potentially illumina-
tion testimony; strict time limits on
each stage of the process to prevent the
trial from dragging out too long. It is
eminently reasonable; it is eminently
fair. A group with no partisan bias
would come up with this type of pro-
posal.
I have yet to hear one good argument
as to why less evidence is better than
more evidence, particularly in such a
serious moment as impeachment of the
President of the United States. In
Leader MCCONNELL’s 30-minute screed,
he did not make one argument as to
why witnesses and documents should
not be a part of the trial.
President Trump protests that he did
not receive due process in the House
impeachment inquiry. Due process is
the ability to respond to charges made
against you and present your side of
the case. The President was invited to
provide witnesses and provide docu-
ments at every stage of the process. He
chose not to.
Still, Democrats are offering the
President due process again here in the
Senate. The witnesses we suggest are
top Trump-appointed officials. They
aren’t Democrats. We don’t know if
their testimony would exculpate the
President or incriminate him, but their
testimony should be heard. If the
President’s counsel wants to call other
witnesses with direct knowledge of why
the aid to Ukraine was delayed, we say
that they should be able to do so.
President Trump claims he wants due
process. I suspect he would rather hide
or name-call because if he really want-
ed due process, he could get it easily.
One phone call to Leader MCCONNELL
telling him to let his aides testify, one
phone call to his chief of staff telling
him to release the documents to Con-
gress—both of these actions would let
the truth come out. I ask again: Can
none of the President’s men come de-
fend him under oath?
To my Republican colleagues, our
message is a simple one. Democrats
want a fair trial that examines the rel-
evant facts. We want a fair trial. The
message from Leader MCCONNELL at
the moment is that he has no intention
of conducting a fair trial, no intention
of acting impartially, no intention of
getting the facts.
Despite our disagreements, I will
meet with Leader MCCONNELL soon to
discuss the rules, but each Senator will
influence whether the Senate lives up
to its constitutional duty to serve as
an impartial court of impeachment. In
the coming weeks, Republican senators
will face a choice. Each Republican
Senator will face a choice. Do they
want a fair trial or do they want to
allow the President free rein? Each
Senator must ask himself or herself:
Do you want a fair trial or do you want
the President to do whatever he wants,
regardless of the rule of law, regardless
of the consequences to this great Na-
tion?
The Nation turns its eyes to the Sen-
ate. What will it see?
The President of the United States
has spent the past several months tell-
ing Congress that it has no right to
oversight and no right to investigate
any of his activities; that he has abso-
lute immunity; that article II of the
Constitution gives him the ‘‘right to do
whatever he wants.’’ Those are the
President’s words. Past Senates have
disagreed with such views and strong-
ly, proudly stood up for the notion that
the President is not omnipotent.
Democrats have done it; Republicans
have done it—and often Presidents of
their own party.
The Senate has said in the past that
the President serves the people, not
himself; that he is not a King. Will it
do so again or will it shirk from that
responsibility?
If the Republicans lead with the ma-
jority leader’s scheme to sweep these
charges under the rug and permit the
President to ignore Congress, they will
be creating a new precedent that will
long be remembered as one of the Sen-
ate’s darkest chapters. It will be re-
membered as a time when a simple ma-
jority in the Senate sought to grant
two new rights to the President: the
right to use the government for per-
sonal purposes and the right to ignore
Congress at his pleasure. Here I agree
with Senator MCCONNELL: ‘‘Moments
like this are why the Senate exists.’’ If
the President commits high crimes and
misdemeanors and the Congress can do
nothing about it, not even conduct a
fair tribunal where his conduct is
judged by dispassionate representatives
of the people, then the President can
commit those crimes with impunity.
This President can; others can.
I have little doubt that if we tell the
President that he can escape scrutiny
in this instance, he will do it again and
again and again. Future Presidents will
take note and may do worse. The most
powerful check on the Executive, the
one designed to protect the people from
tyranny, will be erased.
This chapter in our history books
could be a lesson about the erosion of
checks and balances in our modern age
or it could be a proud reaffirmation of
those founding principles. This chapter
in our history books could be about the
overpowering partisanship of our times
or it could be about the Senate’s capac-
ity to overcome it. Again, moments
like this are why the U.S. Senate ex-
ists.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The Senator from Utah.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, it is Decem-
ber, so America’s attention turns once
again to the great debate of our times:
What is the best Christmas movie? Is it
‘‘White Christmas,’’ maybe ‘‘Elf,’’ ‘‘A
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.007 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7172 December 19, 2019
Christmas Story,’’ ‘‘Home Alone,’’ or
‘‘Die Hard’’? That is a good one. A lot
of people are partial to ‘‘It’s a Wonder-
ful Life’’ or ‘‘Braveheart.’’ Now,
‘‘Braveheart,’’ of course, has nothing
to do with Christmas, but it is about
freedom. Nothing says freedom quite
like Christmas.
We have to debate, you see, the best
Christmas movie out there for the sim-
ple reason that we also have to watch
every year the worst Christmas movie.
The worst Christmas movie is the one
that runs every single year from this
Chamber right here in this city on C–
SPAN just a week before our Lord’s
birthday. It is called omnibus. Critics
and fans have loved to hate it for
years. As is always the case in these
money-grabbing sequels, the actors and
the writers and the directors are just
mailing it in. They know they can do
this every year, and it works for them,
so they mail it in. The only plot twist
this time is that instead of a con-
tinuing resolution or a single omnibus,
leaders and appropriators have cleverly
put the negotiated spending agreement
into two bills so that we can all pre-
tend it is better than just one.
Even though they were negotiated at
the same time, released to the public
at the same time, and will be voted on
within only minutes of each other, we
have had different formulations of this
over the years. Sometimes it is a con-
tinuing resolution. Sometimes it is an
omnibus. Sometimes it is a couple of
minibuses capped off with another con-
tinuing resolution. Sometimes we call
it a CRomnibus. This time I think we
can call it a double-decker minibus,
but whatever you want to call it, it is
the same movie. It is a rerun, and it is
not very good. In fact, it is really, real-
ly bad. The secretive, undemocratric,
irresponsive, and ultimately irrespon-
sible process that produced this bill is
nothing short of a sham, but then,
again, so is the substance of the bill. It
has been like this for years now. In-
stead of actively setting and passing
budgets within which we intend to
stay, as we expect from any other orga-
nization, we make it up as we go along
in as abusive and dysfunctional a fash-
ion as the American people will pos-
sibly let us get away with because that
seems to be our aim—do whatever they
let us get away with.
In fact, the last time Congress passed
all of its respective appropriations bills
in each of the dozen or so categories in
which we spend money—and we pass
each of those bills unbundled and on
time—was back in 1997. For this fiscal
year, we have already passed two con-
tinuing resolutions.
An omnibus bill in and of itself
doesn’t have to be a bad thing. In fact,
one could make it a relatively good
thing. You see, in theory, an omnibus
could be a decent legislative vehicle
if—and only if, that is—Members of the
House and the Senate were given time
to read it, to debate it, and to offer,
consider, and vote upon amendments to
offer improvements to that legislation.
So I really don’t care whether it is a
dozen individual spending bills or a
small handful of minibuses or whether
it is a single bill; what I want is consid-
eration on the floor of the Senate in
front of the American people so they
can be aware of what is happening, so
we can exercise the election certifi-
cates we fought so hard for. Each one
of us is made more relevant when we
get that opportunity and less relevant
when we are denied.
Unfortunately, it is just never the
case anymore that we have those kinds
of opportunities to debate, discuss, and
consider amendments, and to receive
the underlying legislation in enough
time for any of us to make a difference.
These bills are written entirely behind
closed doors by a small handful of lead-
ers from two parties—thousands of
pages of spending trillions of dollars
and released to public scrutiny for the
first time within only hours of what
would otherwise become a government
shutdown.
You see, this is a feature, not a bug.
For those in charge of this process, this
is a good thing because this is what al-
lows them to write it on their own. The
law firm, as I sometimes describe it—
the law firm of MCCONNELL, SCHUMER,
PELOSI, MCCARTHY, and a small handful
of staffers and a few other Members
around them write this bill, and then it
is presented to us as a single, binary,
take-it-or-leave-it package. You fund
this and everything in it or you fund
nothing. You vote for this package or
you are blamed for a government shut-
down. It is not right.
This, we somehow manage to call
rather euphemistically, is bipartisan-
ship. Like too much of what Wash-
ington calls bipartisanship these days,
these spending bills are a fiscal dump-
ster fire. You see, they are
masquerading under the banner of bi-
partisan compromise, when, in fact,
they are collusion—collusion just by a
small handful of Members of Congress
who don’t have to have their provisions
debated and discussed and subject to
amendment.
On the merits, and not just on the
procedure, this bill is a dumpster fire.
Discretionary spending will be set at
record-high levels in nearly every cat-
egory of government spending.
This omnibus—or double-decker
minibus, as I sometimes call it—will
add $2.1 trillion to the national debt
over the next 20 years. By that time,
we will be spending more on interest on
the debt than we do on national de-
fense.
This is embarrassing. It is embar-
rassing to the American people, and it
ought to be especially embarrassing to
those of us elected to represent our re-
spective States in the U.S. Senate.
What has historically called itself the
world’s greatest deliberative body has
become something substantially less
glorious than that.
When we had a trillion-dollar deficit
after the 2008 financial crisis, everyone
admitted it. Everyone admitted it was
a problem; that it was reckless and out
of control. President Obama admitted
it. Now we are borrowing just as much,
and we are doing so at the top of the
business cycle. With wages up and un-
employment at record lows, it is an
awful, corrupt cycle on repeat. Con-
gress breaks its own spending rules,
creates new ones to spend more, and
then breaks the new ones and tries to
hide the evidence, racking up ever
more national debt all the while.
What is worse, we are literally put-
ting the brunt of the cost of all of this
on future generations, on those who
are not yet here and not able to vote
for or against the politicians who are
doing this to them. Gorging ourselves
on debt to the tune of another trillion
dollars a year means we are saddling
our children and our children’s chil-
dren with the cost of this bill, and we
are setting ourselves up for a disaster
come the next inevitable recession.
John F. Kennedy famously said ‘‘to
govern is to choose,’’ but Congress’s de-
fining dysfunction is that it doesn’t
choose. It chooses not to choose rather
deliberately. We don’t budget. We don’t
reform. We don’t prioritize. We just
spend, and we hope we are retired or—
let’s face it—dead when the bill for our
negligence and recklessness finally
comes due.
Not only does this package feature
reckless spending, but it includes many
bills it should not, with Congress fund-
ing broken, inefficient, and, in many
cases, downright harmful programs.
For instance, this bill reauthorizes
the National Flood Insurance Pro-
gram—a program that might sound
nice, but it subsidizes beachfront prop-
erties right in the middle of dangerous
flood plains, which is already in more
than $20 billion of debt to American
taxpayers, for a full year, without a
single reform. By the way, after every
single time it has been reauthorized,
for years running, I and others have
been promised that the next time
around, we will have an opportunity to
offer amendments, and we will have an
opportunity to reform the Flood Insur-
ance Program. It can be reformed, and
it must be reformed. We have been
promised reforms for years, but this
bill just reauthorizes it for a full year,
without a single reform—not one.
This bill also maintains the broken
status quo for overseas contingency op-
erations. For those Americans who
aren’t familiar with this term—or OCO,
as it is sometimes described—this is
the Pentagon’s increasingly unac-
countable and widely abused slush
fund, insulated from scrutiny by un-
checked budget caps. The deal appro-
priates another $71.5 billion for OCO, a
$4 billion increase just from last year
alone. This, only days after America
learned that civilian and military lead-
ers have been lying to the American
people for years across multiple Presi-
dential administrations about our fail-
ures in Afghanistan.
Instead of reform or oversight, these
bills would put another $4.1 billion into
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.008 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7173
December 19, 2019
the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund
and limit our ability to negotiate
peace and bring the war in Afghanistan
finally to an end. In an era of rampant
fake news, even the media is outper-
forming Congress on this issue.
These bills include $495 million for
the Land and Water Conservation
Fund, a 13-percent increase from the
last fiscal year, and the highest appro-
priation it has had in 17 years—all for
a program that has been of particular
detriment to my State of Utah. The
LWCF has been used as a tool for the
Federal Government to gradually ac-
quire more and more land, even as it is
failing to care for the lands that it al-
ready owns, with a current mainte-
nance backlog of $19.4 billion.
Worse, in addition to funding broken
programs, it funds blatant, abusive cro-
nyism. The bill reauthorizes the Ex-
port-Import Bank—Washington’s favor-
ite among favored banks—which doles
out taxpayer-backed loans to help
American exporters, and it does so for
a full 7 years, without even so much of
a word of debate. This, notwith-
standing the fact that the Export-Im-
port Bank has been the subject of very
intense debate in this body for many
years, and with good reason.
Why? Well, among other things, the
biggest recipient of Export-Import
Bank funds is Pemex—Mexico’s infa-
mous, corrupt, state-owned oil com-
pany. It is so corrupt, in fact, that its
own employees collaborate with Mexi-
co’s drug cartels to facilitate the theft
of their best oil and their refined petro-
leum products.
In fact, that theft has become so
rampant in Mexico that there is a term
coined to refer to that kind of theft.
Those who engage in it are called
‘‘huachicoleros’’—‘‘huachicoleros.’’ We
are funding, and we are insulating from
the ramifications of that theft, Pemex,
a corrupt institution. It doesn’t oper-
ate well, in part, because it is the vic-
tim of theft and in part because it is
being backed up by the U.S. Govern-
ment.
Ranked right after Pemex is the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China, whose state-
owned enterprises are granted generous
taxpayer-backed financing for pur-
chases they could fund through their
own Communist government.
Say what you want about China,
about U.S.-China relations on trade,
about military issues related to China,
whatever national security issues we
might be concerned about with China,
but I don’t know many people—in fact,
I don’t know anyone outside of this
town—who think the U.S. Government
should be propping up China, should be
giving up money for the Export-Import
Bank, or otherwise, to China. That is
not our job. That is not the role of the
U.S. taxpayer, who works hard every
day to earn money which then might
be sent to a Communist government in
China.
The reauthorization even includes
provisions instructing the Export-Im-
port Bank to pretend it is helping
Americans to compete against China at
the same time it is sending that very
government billions of dollars.
Then there is the extension of the
Brand USA Act—a 7-year reauthoriza-
tion of a government-chartered non-
profit Brand USA—to use tens of mil-
lions of Federal dollars to advertise for
tourism.
To top things off, a last-minute tax
extender’s deal was added to the pack-
age late Monday night, diverting bil-
lions of dollars on central economic
planning and picking winners and los-
ers in the marketplace. Over the next
10 years, this package provides about
$2.7 billion in tax benefits through pro-
grams that use the Tax Code to
incentivize businesses to invest in gov-
ernment-selected neighborhoods, seek-
ing to control the flow of investment
instead of relying on the free market
to make those decisions, and it in-
cludes naked handouts to cronyist spe-
cial interests.
For example, it spends over $2.1 bil-
lion for subsidies in the energy sector—
not energy generally but to specific
winners within the energy industry
that this small handful of purported
leaders in Congress have decided would
benefit from the hard-working tax-
payer dollars that would be doled out.
The bill, among other things, engages
in awarding $113 million for coal pro-
duction on Indian land, $331 million for
facilities to refuel alternative fuel ve-
hicles, and $1.5 billion for biodiesel and
renewable diesel tax credits, for in-
stance. As if the Federal Government
weren’t already mired sufficiently in
this area, this bill devotes even more.
Beyond these, it hands out $187 mil-
lion in writeoffs for owners of motor
sport entertainment complexes, $18
million in tax breaks for the produc-
tion of movies and TV shows, and $3
million in tax credits for the pur-
chasers of two-wheeled, plug-in electric
vehicles, just to name a few examples.
Not only that, but it features new
levels of absurdity too. This deal actu-
ally includes a special interest bailout
to make up for the failures of a faulty
pension plan, while, at the same time,
authorizing another pension plan to
follow in its same footsteps.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to speak for an additional 3 min-
utes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LEE. Congress authorized a
group of coal miners’ multiemployer
pension plans under problematic rules,
allowing them to underfund the plans
by over 70 percent, but all the while,
those pensions still promised their
workers full benefits, setting up unrea-
sonable expectations for their return
on investment. Inevitably, they have
not made up the shortfall, and now the
taxpayers are being asked to bail them
out.
In the very same bill in which we are
bailing out the coal miners’ pensions,
we are authorizing a select group of
community newspapers—not all news-
papers and not all media enterprises;
just a select group of handpicked com-
munity newspapers—to follow the same
practice, allowing them, once again, to
underfund their workers’ pensions
while again promising them a full re-
turn on benefits.
With this bill, we are rubberstamping
the expectation that employers are free
to raid their workers’ promised retire-
ment benefits for their own short-term
gain and setting the precedent that the
government will reward this bad prac-
tice by bailing them out when that in-
evitably becomes a problem.
This bill, however, does include some
good measures that I support, like re-
pealing the medical device tax, fixing a
tax provision that would unfairly sub-
ject churches to more taxes, and mak-
ing retirement account reforms that
allow Americans to access these funds
in times of a particular need.
Sadly, I, like many of our colleagues,
will be forced to vote against these
measures because they have been
lumped into this massive, stinking
package where the only choice we have
is a binary one. We have no option to
vote for the things we like. This is
wrong. There is no finite cap on our
ability to debate these things other
than the artificial ones we have cre-
ated rather deliberately within this
body, and that is wrong.
The thing about these omnibuses is
they put us in a take-it-or-leave-it po-
sition. We were given no choice but to
support or oppose the whole thing,
good and bad measures alike. Unfortu-
nately, just like every other episode in
this squalid saga—I call this one omni-
bus 2—this one, too, will come to a pre-
dictable, sad, sorry ending. Congress
will pass the mess, indulging in a proc-
ess, substance, and long-term result
that are all an affront to the viewers,
because at the end of the day, the audi-
ence members are real live victims. We
can do better. We can, we must, and we
will.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am
pleased to be here with my good friend
the chairman of the Appropriations
Committee, Senator SHELBY from Ala-
bama. We worked hard on this bill, he
as chairman and I as vice chairman. We
reached a bipartisan, bicameral agree-
ment that will fund the Federal Gov-
ernment in fiscal year 2020.
The agreement rejects some dev-
astating and shortsighted cuts pro-
posed by the President. It makes his-
toric investments in the American peo-
ple and working families. It fully im-
plements the bipartisan budget agree-
ment and allows us to invest an addi-
tional $27 billion in nondefense pro-
grams to benefit our Nation’s children,
improve our educational institutions,
protect our environment, combat the
opioid crisis, promote and grow our
economy, invest in our infrastructure,
and protect our elections. There is a
lot in here.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.010 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7174 December 19, 2019
There are 12 appropriations bills put
into 2 minibuses. The first, we refer to
as the domestic minibus bill. That is a
strong bipartisan bill that makes real
and historic investments in the Amer-
ican people and our communities.
It rejects anti-science and know-
nothingism proposals by making
record-level investments in science and
research programs. We all know that
you have to invest in science and re-
search, and you cannot turn this on
and off year by year. We have to think
long term.
We also have to invest in our chil-
dren’s education. We have increases in
programs with proven success, such as
Head Start, the child care and develop-
ment block grant, child nutrition pro-
grams, 21st-century learning grants,
Pell grants, and others.
For the third year in a row, it con-
tinues the historic level of funding to
combat opioids that we began in fiscal
year 2018. This funding is critical for
State and local governments because
they are at the frontlines of this bat-
tle.
The agreement provides over $5 bil-
lion more than the President’s budget
to protect national parks and public
lands and fund critical environmental
protection and conservation programs.
These national parks are an important
part of our heritage. The Presiding Of-
ficer has some of the most beautiful
ones in the country in his State, but
all of our national parks are beautiful.
I think about the brilliance of people
like President Theodore Roosevelt who
said: Let’s preserve them.
Even though the administration de-
nies that climate change exists, the
agreement includes significant re-
sources to combat this threat in the
new fiscal year.
It rejects the President’s proposal to
totally eliminate key Federal afford-
able housing and economic develop-
ment programs.
For the first time in decades, Con-
gress has come together to fund $25
million for gun violence research by
the Centers for Disease Control and the
NIH. That is a significant step to com-
bat the gun violence epidemic and rash
of school shootings facing our Nation.
It is a good bill. It is certainly going
to improve the lives of Vermonters. It
improves the lives of millions of Amer-
icans in all the States. It provides sup-
port for working families and supports
and promotes our economy. In a few
moments, we are going to vote on the
motion to invoke cloture on this bill,
and I will urge an ‘‘aye’’ vote.
The second package of bills, we refer
to as the national security minibus
bill. It is critical funding to support
our troops, invest in our military, and
protect our Nation from ongoing
threats, both foreign and domestic.
Importantly, it includes $425 million
for election security grants. While the
administration has not requested any-
thing, I heard from secretaries of
state—Republicans and Democrats
alike—throughout the country, includ-
ing our own, Jim Condos of Vermont,
of the need for these election security
grants. It is a matter of national secu-
rity to preserve our democracy, and we
have to maintain full faith in our elec-
tions.
We also fund the constitutionally
mandated 2020 Decennial Census. That
is in the U.S. Constitution. It not only
determines congressional apportion-
ment, but it also is relied on to dis-
tribute $900 billion in Federal funds.
We have to have a fair and accurate
count, and the money provided in this
bill will help us achieve that.
We have significant investments to
fight crime and terrorism, implement
criminal justice reforms, combat vio-
lence against women, and keep commu-
nities safe.
We also have funding for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
I would note that we have one area
that has been a lightning rod in both
Chambers. We tried to get a bill that
would receive the required number of
votes to pass. The reason it has been
difficult is because of the President’s
insistence that we waste taxpayer
money on an ineffective and foolish
wall on the southern border. We all
want secure borders. A wall that can be
easily cut with a $100 power saw you
can buy at a local hardware store is
not security, and we worry about the
cruel and ineffective immigration poli-
cies of the Trump Administration.
Last year, the President plunged us
into a 35-day government shutdown
when Congress refused to fund his anti-
immigration agenda. That cost the tax-
payers of this country billions of dol-
lars that could have been spent on bet-
ter things. But we reached a resolu-
tion. Again, I compliment Senator
SHELBY and Congresswomen LOWEY and
GRANGER because we met for hours in
my office and worked our way through
that.
In this bill, the President will receive
$1.375 billion for barriers on the south-
ern border, which is what he would
have received if we had a continuing
resolution and far less than the $8.6 bil-
lion he requested, $5 billion of which
would have come from the Department
of Homeland Security.
I would have preferred no funding for
the wall. President Trump’s wall will
negatively impact communities in
which it is built, rob people of their
property—in some cases, ranches and
farmland that have been in families for
generations—and destroy critical habi-
tat on the border. But the Republicans
were clear: They would not support a
bill that contained zero for the wall.
They stood with the President on the
wall, as they seem to do time after
time.
I am disappointed that we did not
further restrict the President’s ability
to steal money from our troops to pay
for the wall. If the President decides to
once again steal money from our
troops and their families for the wall,
he will have to answer in court and to
the American people. Our position on
this is clear: It is wrong. No one should
interpret silence in this bill or the do-
mestic minibus on this issue as
condoning the President’s actions or as
an agreement that what he has done is
lawful. It simply reflects a sad political
reality that the Republican Party re-
fuses to stand up to this President and
protect the Congress’s exclusive power
of the purse and clarify the law.
One court has already correctly con-
cluded that the President’s raid on
military construction money was un-
lawful. That conclusion is based on a
long-standing provision of appropria-
tions law, section 739 of the financial
services bill, that prevents the admin-
istration from increasing funds for a
program or activity requested in the
budget above and beyond what was pro-
vided in an appropriations act. This
provision is included again in the un-
derlying bill, and we believe it was cor-
rectly interpreted.
We denied the President’s request to
increase the number of ICE detention
beds to 54,000. This request was cruel
and unjustified. Instead, we provided
funding to support the same level of
beds as fiscal year 2019. There is no
need for a higher number.
President Trump is misusing ICE de-
tention facilities for the mass incarcer-
ation of asylum seekers and immi-
grants who have no criminal history
and pose no threat to our communities.
There are more effective, less expen-
sive, and more humane ways to enforce
our immigration laws while immi-
grants go through judicial proceedings.
That is why I fought for and secured a
significant increase in alternatives to
detention, like the Family Case Man-
agement Program.
I also fought to include restrictions
on the President’s ability to increase
the bed number by transferring money
from other accounts. But again, Repub-
licans stood with the President and re-
fused to negotiate on this issue, and
those critical reforms were not in-
cluded.
Not every part of the DHS bill is con-
troversial, however. The bill provides
critical funding for the Coast Guard to
support their missions to keep our
country safe. It provides an increase
for the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration, which ensures our safety
and security at our Nation’s busy air-
ports, and it provides increased funding
for FEMA whose mission is critical for
communities struggling to recover in
the wake of natural disasters.
While I do not agree with everything
included in this bill, on balance, the se-
curity minibus provides funding impor-
tant to keep our Nation safe, to sup-
port our troops, to improve election se-
curity, and ensure an accurate count
for the Census. Later today, we will
turn to this bill, and I urge an aye
vote.
I do thank Chairman SHELBY for his
hard work in negotiating the bills. The
hours were long. We didn’t always
agree. We had a lot of weekends and
evenings that we worked quietly out of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.012 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7175
December 19, 2019
sight of the press and everything else,
but knowing that we can take each
other’s word, we worked in good faith
to reach a resolution on difficult mat-
ters. He made compromises necessary
to get us a deal, as did I. And I thank
my friend Senator SHELBY for his lead-
ership on the Appropriations Com-
mittee.
I say this as Dean of the Senate and
as somebody who has served with al-
most 20 percent of all the Senators in
this country’s history—I thank him for
his friendship.
I thank the Appropriations Com-
mittee staff on both sides of the aisle.
I might go home at 9 or 10 o’clock at
night; they are still there until 1 or 2
o’clock in the morning. They are hard-
working, and there were sleepless
nights. We could not have done this
without them.
Obviously, I thank my full com-
mittee staff—Charles Kieffer, Chanda
Betourney, Jessica Berry, Jay Tilton,
and Hannah Chauvin—for their work,
as well as Shannon Hines, Jonathan
Graffeo, and David Adkins on Senator
SHELBY’s staff. I thank all the sub-
committee. It is a long list, and I ask
unanimous consent the entire list be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
VICE CHAIRMAN LEAHY LIST FOR SENATE
AMENDMENT TO H.R. 1158 (CONSOLIDATED
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020) AND H.R. 1865
(FURTHER CONSOLIDATED APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2020) STAFF FOR THE RECORD
Charles E. Kieffer, Chanda Betourney, Jay
Tilton, Jessica Berry, Hannah Chauvin,
Shannon Hines, Jonathan Graffeo, David
Adkins, Margaret Pritchard, Dianne Nellor,
Adrienne Wojciechowski, Teri Curtin, Bob
Ross, Morgan Ulmer, Patrick Carroll, Eliza-
beth Dent, Anna Lanier Fischer, Jean Toal
Eisen, Jennifer Eskra, Blaise Sheridan,
Elisabeth Coats, Hamilton Bloom, Amber
Beck, Allen Cutler, Matt Womble, Sydney
Crawford, Erik Raven, Brigid Kolish, Rob
Leonard, John Lucio, Andy Vanlandingham,
Mike Clementi, Colleen Gaydos, Katy Hagan,
Chris Hall, Hanz Heinrichs, Kate Kaufer, Ra-
chel Littleton, Jacqui Russell, Jeremiah Van
Auken, Doug Clapp, Chris Hanson, Kathleen
Williams, Tyler Owens, Jen Armstrong,
Adam DeMella, Meyer Seligman, Molly
Marsh, Ellen Murray, Diana Gourlay Ham-
ilton, Reeves Hart, Andrew Newton, Brian
Daner, Sophie Sando, Scott Nance, Chip Wal-
gren, Drenan Dudley, Peter Babb, Chris
Cook, Justin Harper, Thompson Moore,
Kamela White, Christian Lee, Rachael Tay-
lor, Ryan Hunt, Melissa Zimmerman, Faisal
Amin, Emy Lesofski, Lucas Agnew, Nona
McCoy, Alex Keenan, Mark Laisch, Kelly
Brown, Kathryn Toomajian, Meghan Mott,
Laura Friedel, Michael Gentile, Ashley
Palmer, Jeff Reczek, Sarah Boliek, Alley
Adcock, Michelle Dominguez, Jason McMa-
hon, Patrick Magnuson, Jennifer Bastin, Jo-
anne Hoff, Tim Rieser, Alex Carnes, Kali
Farahmand, Paul Grove, Katherine Jackson,
Sarita Vanka, Adam Yezerski, Dabney Hegg,
Jessi Axe, Christina Monroe, Virginia Flores,
Clare Doherty, Gus Maples, Rajat Mathur,
LaShawnda Smith, Jason Woolwine, Court-
ney Young, Valerie Hutton, Elmer Myles,
Penny Myles, Karin Thames, Robert Put-
nam, Clint Trocchio, Christy Greene, Blair
Taylor, Jenny Winkler, Hong Nguyen,
Christy Greene, George Castro.
Mr. LEAHY. I have often said that we
Senators are merely constitutional im-
pediments to the staff who do such
great work, and I applaud them all on
both sides of the aisle.
I yield the floor to my distinguished
chairman.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The Senator from
Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that I be allowed to
finish my remarks prior to the vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, just a
few weeks ago right here, Congress
passed a continuing resolution to fund
the government through December 20.
At that time, few if any of us predicted
that we would pass all 12 appropria-
tions bills in such a small window of
time. Yet today we are poised to do
just that in a few minutes.
Bipartisan cooperation has made this
possible. Chairwoman LOWEY and
Ranking Member GRANGER on the
House side and my friend Vice Chair-
man LEAHY and I on the Senate side
worked together to change things. I be-
lieve that the four of us have shown
once again that, if given the oppor-
tunity, we will find a bipartisan path
forward to get the job done. It is very
important that we do this.
I would be remiss right now if I did
not recognize all members of the Ap-
propriations Committees, Democrats
and Republicans, committees on both
sides of the aisle and the Capitol, our
subcommittee chairs, our ranking
members in particulars, and, of course,
our staff. We would not be here without
their diligence and willingness to work
night and day with very little sleep.
I thank the leaders on both sides,
Senator MCCONNELL and Senator SCHU-
MER.
I especially want to take a moment
here to acknowledge the role played by
the Secretary of the Treasury, Sec-
retary Mnuchin, in these negotiations
on behalf of the administration. To-
gether, everybody negotiated the budg-
et agreement that paved the way for
these bills, and they helped guide them
down the stretch. Secretary Mnuchin
in particular has been a voice of reason
and a driving force in our ability to get
to yes, and we should be grateful for
that.
I believe these bills are good bills
that my colleagues can be proud to
support. I do not have time here today
to go into all the particulars of such a
complex piece of legislation, but I want
to hit a few high points as I see them.
First—always first to me—is America’s
military, our national security, the se-
curity of our Nation. Defense spending
here has increased by $22 billion over
the previous year. Our men and women
in uniform will receive the largest pay
increase in 10 years at 3.1 percent,
which they deserve. Our veterans can
rest assured that they will get the
healthcare they earned and deserve
through the funding of the VA MIS-
SION Act. These are victories for
America and for the American people.
Turning to Homeland Security,
which is very important, as well, $1.375
billion is provided for the border wall
system, and the President will have
some greater flexibility on where he
can build along the southern border.
Not only that, but the President re-
tains critical transfer authorities that
will allow him to devote additional re-
sources to border security and immi-
gration enforcement. Again, the objec-
tive here and, I believe, the outcome is
to make America strong.
The last thing that I will mention be-
fore wrapping up is that these bills will
maintain all legacy policy riders to
protect life and the Second Amend-
ment. These provisions have long been
foundational to the strength of Amer-
ica and I am proud to assure my col-
leagues that we can carry them for-
ward.
All in all, these bills accommodate
countless Members’ priorities on both
sides of the aisle. I want to thank all of
my colleagues, again, for the input
they provided at the outset of this
process.
I also want to take a moment to
thank my chief of staff and the staff di-
rector of the Appropriations Com-
mittee, Shannon Hines, and her staff
for all the work they have done, as well
as Senator LEAHY’s staff, working to-
gether. As we approach the finish line,
I ask for their support. As the clock
winds down, let’s come together and do
what seemed so unlikely just a month
ago—to fund the entire Federal Gov-
ernment before the Christmas break.
Before I yield the floor, I want to
quickly thank, again, all of the staff
for their hard work and dedication to
make this happen today. Without
them, it wouldn’t happen and we know
this. They have worked tirelessly on
our behalf and on behalf of the Amer-
ican people, and we should all be grate-
ful for their efforts.
I yield the floor.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to concur in the House amendment to
the Senate amendment to H.R. 1865, a bill to
require the Secretary of the Treasury to
mint a coin in commemoration of the open-
ing of the National Law Enforcement Mu-
seum in the District of Columbia, and for
other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Susan M. Collins,
Richard Burr, David Perdue, Pat Rob-
erts, John Cornyn, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, John Thune, John Boozman, Rob
Portman, Richard C. Shelby, Roy
Blunt, Jerry Moran, John Hoeven,
Roger F. Wicker, Thom Tillis, Lisa
Murkowski
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.013 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7176 December 19, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the motion to
concur in the House amendment to the
Senate amendment to H.R. 1865, a bill
to require the Secretary of the Treas-
ury to mint a coin in commemoration
of the opening of the National Law En-
forcement Museum in the District of
Columbia, and for other purposes, shall
be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Arkansas (Mr. COTTON) and the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from New Mexico (Mr. UDALL), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 71,
nays 21, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 413 Leg.]
YEAS—71
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—21
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Carper
Cassidy
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Gillibrand
Hawley
Inhofe
Johnson
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Risch
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Toomey
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Cotton
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Udall
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 71, the nays are 21.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
The motion to refer falls.
The Senator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I want to
thank everybody for joining Senator
SHELBY and I on this vote. It is going
to help us move forward, and, as I said
in my earlier remarks, Republicans and
Democrats came together and worked
extraordinarily hard on these appro-
priations bills, and it shows what can
be done when we work together. I
think the vote here is an indication of
that.
If nobody is seeking recognition, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
PALLONE-THUNE TELEPHONE
ROBOCALL ABUSE CRIMINAL EN-
FORCEMENT AND DETERRENCE
ACT
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, today the
Senate is taking the final step to send
much-needed legislation to protect
consumers from robocalls to the Presi-
dent’s desk. I think we had hoped that
this would be able to be passed with a
couple of other bills coming out of the
Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation Committee. I think the chair-
man of the committee, Senator
WICKER, will address those later: the
data mapping bill and the secure com-
munications bill that deals with ensur-
ing that we protect our technology
from harmful elements—Huawei and
those sorts of things. I would hope that
we could get those cleared at some
point, too.
Today, we want to proceed with the
robocall bill.
I will just start by saying that illegal
robocalls have flooded Americans’
phones to the point where many folks
don’t want to answer their phones at
all. In fact, a recent report found that
only 47 percent of calls Americans re-
ceive are actually answered. This
means consumers aren’t answering le-
gitimate calls that could be alerting
you of fraud on your credit card, noti-
fying you that your flight has been
canceled, or reminding you of an up-
coming medical appointment—all calls
that are important to consumers.
It is clear that no one is immune to
these annoying and potentially dan-
gerous calls. Scammers use these calls
to successfully prey on vulnerable pop-
ulations, especially elderly Americans,
and they target the kind of personal in-
formation that can be used to steal
your money or your identity. When
scammers are successful, the con-
sequences for their victims can be dev-
astating.
While there are laws and fines in
place right now to prevent scam artists
for preying on Americans through the
telephone, these measures have been
insufficient. When I served as chairman
of the Commerce Committee, I subpoe-
naed the mass robocaller Adrian
Abramovich to testify about his oper-
ation. His testimony made it clear that
robocall scammers simply build the
current fines into the cost of doing
business.
On top of this, the Federal Commu-
nications Commission’s enforcement
efforts are hampered by a tight time
window for pursuing violators. That is
why, earlier this year, I introduced the
legislation before us today, the Tele-
phone Robocall Abuse Criminal En-
forcement and Deterrence Act, or the
TRACED Act, with my fellow Com-
merce Committee member, Senator
MARKEY. The TRACED Act provides
tools to discourage illegal robocalls,
protect consumers, and crack down on
offenders. It expands the window in
which the FCC can pursue intentional
scammers and levy fines from 1 year to
4 years.
The legislation also requires tele-
phone service providers to adopt call
verification technologies that would
help prevent illegal robocalls from
reaching consumers in the first place.
The TRACED Act also recognizes the
importance of legitimate calls and en-
sures important calls like emergency
public safety calls are not wrongly
blocked.
Importantly, it convenes a working
group with representatives from the
Department of Justice, the FCC, the
Federal Trade Commission, the Depart-
ment of Commerce, the Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection Bureau, State at-
torneys general, and others to identify
ways to criminally prosecute the ille-
gal robocalling. TRACED also address-
es the issue of so-called one-ring
scams, where international scammers
try to get individuals to return their
calls so they can charge them exorbi-
tant fees.
It directs the Federal Communica-
tions Commission to convene a work-
ing group to address the problem of il-
legal robocalls being made to hospitals.
Mr. President, I am very pleased that
the TRACED Act received bipartisan
support in both houses of Congress. I
am especially grateful to Senator MAR-
KEY for partnering with me on this leg-
islation, and I appreciate Chairman
WICKER and Ranking Member CANT-
WELL for quickly advancing this legis-
lation through the Commerce Com-
mittee this year.
I also appreciate the work of our
House colleagues, Representatives PAL-
LONE, WALDEN, DOYLE, and LATTA, for
their work on advancing the TRACED
Act through the House. I am also very
pleased this bill has attracted tremen-
dous support from State governments
and industry and consumer groups.
While the TRACED Act won’t pre-
vent all illegal robocalling, it is a big
step in the right direction. As The
Washington Post editorial board re-
cently stated, the TRACED ‘‘is what
good, old-fashioned legislating looks
like.’’ I could not agree more. No proc-
ess is perfect, but today, I am excited
that the Senate will be sending the
TRACED Act to the President’s desk.
Before I close, Mr. President, I would
like to quickly thank several staff
members whose efforts helped get us
here today. In my office, I appreciate
the work of Alex Sachtjen, Lauren
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.017 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7177
December 19, 2019
Greenwood, Jessica McBride, and Nick
Rossi. I would also like to extend my
thanks to Dan Ball, Olivia Trusty,
John Keast, and Crystal Tully on
Chairman WICKER’s team, who worked
tirelessly to help develop and advance
this legislation.
As I mentioned before, I appreciate
the great work of Senator MARKEY, his
partnership on this bill, and I want to
thank the work of Daniel Greene, Joey
Wender, and Bennett Butler on his
staff. This truly was, Mr. President, a
team effort, so I thank you.
I look forward to the President’s sig-
nature on the TRACED Act in the near
future, and I hope that, as this bill gets
implemented, it will once again be safe
to answer your phone in this country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, thank
you. This is a big day for consumers in
the United States, and I want to begin
first by thanking my friend, Senator
THUNE, for his tremendous partnership
on this legislation and the issue that
we are discussing today, robocalls.
That is because there are no blue
robocalls. There are no red robocalls.
There are only despised robocalls. That
is what is bringing this Chamber to-
gether today. So I thank Senator
THUNE for his great leadership.
I thank Senator WICKER and Senator
CANTWELL for helping us to navigate
this political pathway. Today is a big
day. The daily deluge of robocalls that
Americans experience is more than a
nuisance in 2019. It is a consumer pro-
tection crisis. Today, the U.S. Senate
is sending Americans a holiday gift on
everyone’s list: stopping the plague of
robocalls. Americans across the coun-
try face an epidemic of illegal and
fraudulent robocalls bombarding their
phones.
While their telephones were once a
reliable means of communications,
they have been turned against us. They
are now mechanisms for scammers and
fraudsters who wish to cheat and to de-
fraud. The numbers are staggering. In
2019, consumers have received an esti-
mated 54 billion robocalls. That is 6 bil-
lion more than 2018, and we still have 2
more weeks to go. The year isn’t even
over. In November alone, an estimated
5 billion robocalls were made to Ameri-
cans. That is 167 million robocalls per
day. That is 7 million robocalls an
hour. That is 2,000 every second in our
country. In the time it takes me to
make these remarks, 10,000 robocalls
will have been placed across this coun-
try.
In 2019, already almost 600 million
robocalls have been placed to my con-
stituents in Massachusetts. Enough is
enough. The reality is that we no
longer have confidence in our phones.
Our phones have become tools for
fraud, for scams, for harassment mech-
anisms by which those with bad intent
can access our homes, our purses, or
even our pockets at any time. Caller ID
is not trusted. Important calls go un-
answered. Innocent Americans are de-
frauded. Our seniors in particular are
targeted.
Years ago, scammers needed expen-
sive, sophisticated equipment to
robocall and robotext consumers en
masse. Today, they just need a
smartphone to target thousands of
phones an hour at relatively little ex-
pense, and readily available software
permits them to spoof their numbers,
which means their true caller ID is, in
fact, concealed from the person picking
up the phone. These new technologies
allow illegal robocalls to conduct fraud
anonymously, both depriving Federal
regulators and consumers the ability
to identify and to punish the culprit.
Today, the U.S. Senate is putting
robocall relief in sight. I have been
proud again to partner with Senator
THUNE on the Telephone Robocall
Abuse Criminal Enforcement and De-
terrence Act, or TRACED Act for
short. We introduced it earlier this
year; today is the culmination of that
work in partnership with the House of
Representatives. Stopping robocalls re-
quires a simple formula, which we have
included in the TRACED Act: 1, au-
thentication; 2, blocking; 3, enforce-
ment.
First, this bill requires carriers to
adopt call authentication technologies
so they can verify that incoming calls
are legitimate before they reach con-
sumers phones. This will be mandatory
for phone carriers. Second, the Federal
Communications Commission will re-
quire phone companies to block
unverified calls at no charge to con-
sumers. Third, we will increase from 1
year to 4 years the time for the Federal
Communications Commission to pur-
sue penalties for robocallers that in-
tentionally violate the rules. This is a
recipe for success. That is what our
TRACED Act does.
At the same time, this bill also en-
sures that emergency public safety
calls still go through. The bill we will
vote on today has enormous support
across the country: 54 State and Terri-
tory attorneys general, all commis-
sioners at the Federal Communications
Commission, and the Federal Trade
Commission. Major industry associa-
tions and meeting consumer groups en-
dorse the legislation and agree that the
TRACED Act is an essential weapon in
combating the rise of illegal, fraudu-
lent robocalls.
This robocall legislation is a political
Halley’s Comet. It is something we can
all gather around and learn from. The
robocalls we receive every day are nei-
ther Democrat, nor Republican. They
are a universal menace. They impact
the elderly, the young, the small busi-
ness owner, and the student. Our
grandparents and neighbors, our teach-
ers and our coworkers today, no one is
spared from this consumer protection
pandemic.
Senator THUNE and my efforts would
not have been possible without the
great work of groups like the National
Consumer Law Center, AARP, Con-
sumer Reports, Consumer Federation
of America, Consumer Action, the Na-
tional Association of Attorneys Gen-
eral, USTelecom, CTIA, NTCA, and so
many more groups. These groups join
the chorus of countless Americans who
raised their voices and called on Con-
gress to pass this bipartisan common-
sense legislation, and we thank you.
What I would like to do, as well as
Senator THUNE, is to thank my staff,
Joey Wender, who is sitting out here
on the floor with me right now; and
Bennett Butler, right over my shoul-
der; and Daniel Greene, who worked on
it; for Alex Sachtjen, Daniel Ball,
Olivia Trusty, Nick Rossi, Crystal
Tully, from the majority staff, all
partnered to make today possible. I
just want to say, again, we can’t thank
Alex Sachtjen enough for all the work
that was done.
I thank Senator THUNE, and I thank
the entire Senate for their support for
this legislation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I appre-
ciate that. I thank the Senator from
Massachusetts. He and his staff were
tremendous in working on this. As I
said before, it is nice when we have an
opportunity to work in a bipartisan
way on something that is this mean-
ingful in people’s lives. This has a tre-
mendous impact on the daily life of
Americans who are bombarded, in
many cases, not just with annoying
nuisance calls, but also with calls that
are very predatory and particularly
when it comes to some of our vulner-
able populations.
Mr. President, notwithstanding rule
XII, I ask unanimous consent that the
Chair lay before the Senate the mes-
sage to accompany S. 151.
The Presiding Officer laid before the
Senate the following message from the
House of Representatives:
Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S.
151) entitled ‘‘An Act to deter criminal
robocall violations and improve enforcement
of section 227(b) of the Communications Act
of 1934, and for other purposes’’, do pass with
an amendment.
MOTION TO CONCUR
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I move to
concur in the House amendment, and I
know of no further debate on the mo-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate on the motion to con-
cur?
If not, the question is on agreeing to
the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
Mr. THUNE. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I would
ask unanimous consent that this be
separate from the discussion that we
are now having, but I would ask unani-
mous consent that at 12 p.m. today,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.019 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7178 December 19, 2019
postcloture time on the motion to con-
cur in the House amendment to the
Senate amendment to H.R. 1865 expire;
the other pending motions and amend-
ments be withdrawn; and Senator ENZI
or his designee be recognized to raise a
budget point of order, followed by Sen-
ator SHELBY or his designee to make a
motion to waive the budget point of
order; finally, if the motion to waive is
agreed to, the Senate vote on the mo-
tion to concur in the House amend-
ment to the Senate amendment to H.R.
1865 with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
I recognize the Senator from Wyo-
ming.
Mr. ENZI. Reserving the right to ob-
ject.
Does that mean I won’t get to give
the comments before we vote? There
has to be some comments about the
point of order. Looking at the clock,
the number of people waiting, it looks
like I am being cut of that time.
Would that be a correct interpreta-
tion?
Mr. THUNE. I would say my view
here is that the gentleman from Wyo-
ming wants to explain his point of
order. There is no objection to allowing
him to do that.
Mr. ENZI. Then I have no objection.
Mr. THUNE. Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
an objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. I recog-
nize the Senator from Mississippi.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, the time
is fleeting.
The distinguished Republican whip is
correct. We had hoped that the robocall
bill could be included with unanimous
consent with two other very important
pieces of legislation—one being the
Broadband DATA Act, S. 1822, which is
designed to tell the FCC: Go back. Get
the maps right. Show us where we have
coverage and where we do not have
coverage. We are making great
progress with that. I do believe we will
get that bill passed in just a moment.
The other issue is the Huawei data
security act. I understand we are going
to have some trouble with that. Let me
talk briefly before I make my unani-
mous consent request.
China is up to no good with their
government-controlled companies,
Huawei and ZTE. They are required by
Chinese law to do the bidding of the
Chinese Communist dictatorship, and
that means using their equipment to
spy on Americans.
This is an undisputed fact, and it is
recognized not only by Americans but
also by other countries, our allies,
which are taking steps to protect
themselves. Japan, Australia, New Zea-
land have already begun the process of
removing this dangerous ZTE and
Huawei equipment from their net-
works.
We have legislation we thought was
going to be included in this three-bill
package, H.R. 4998, to authorize this in
the United States.
Earlier this year, the President
signed an Executive order declaring a
national emergency—and I agree with
the President—because of the dan-
gerous effects of keeping Chinese
equipment in our Nation’s critical in-
frastructure. Given these threats, we
have an opportunity today to remove
this Huawei and ZTE equipment from
American telecommunication net-
works so we can protect Americans.
We are going to have some trouble
with that on the unanimous consent re-
quest. I think with the broadband
DATA Act we will not.
(Mrs. FISCHER assumed the Chair.)
f
BROADBAND DEPLOYMENT ACCU-
RACY AND TECHNOLOGICAL
AVAILABILITY ACT
Mr. WICKER. Madam President, not-
withstanding rule XXII, I ask unani-
mous consent that the Senate proceed
to the immediate consideration of Cal-
endar No. 328, S. 1822.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1822) to require the Federal Com-
munications Commission to issue rules re-
lating to the collection of data with respect
to the availability of broadband services, and
for other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation, with an amendment to strike
all after the enacting clause and insert
in lieu thereof the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Broadband De-
ployment Accuracy and Technological Avail-
ability Act’’ or the ‘‘Broadband DATA Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE.—
The term ‘‘broadband internet access service’’
has the meaning given the term in section 8.1(b)
of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any
successor regulation.
(2) BROADBAND MAP.—The term ‘‘Broadband
Map’’ means the map created by the Commission
under section 3(c)(1)(A).
(3) CELL EDGE PROBABILITY.—The term ‘‘cell
edge probability’’ means the likelihood that the
minimum threshold download and upload
speeds with respect to broadband internet access
service will be met or exceeded at a distance
from a base station that is intended to indicate
the ultimate edge of the coverage area of a cell.
(4) CELL LOADING.—The term ‘‘cell loading’’
means the percentage of the available air inter-
face resources of a base station that are used by
consumers with respect to broadband internet
access service.
(5) CLUTTER.—The term ‘‘clutter’’ means a
natural or man-made surface feature that af-
fects the propagation of a signal from a base
station.
(6) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Communications Commission.
(7) FABRIC.—The term ‘‘Fabric’’ means the
Broadband Serviceable Location Fabric estab-
lished under section 3(b)(1)(B).
(8) FORM 477.—The term ‘‘Form 477’’ means
Form 477 of the Commission relating to local
telephone competition and broadband reporting.
(9) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘‘Indian Tribe’’
has the meaning given the term ‘‘Indian tribe’’
in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
(10) MOBILITY FUND PHASE II.—The term ‘‘Mo-
bility Fund Phase II’’ means the second phase
of the proceeding to provide universal service
support from the Mobility Fund (WC Docket No.
10–90; WT Docket No. 10–208).
(11) PROPAGATION MODEL.—The term ‘‘propa-
gation model’’ means a mathematical formula-
tion for the characterization of radio wave prop-
agation as a function of frequency, distance,
and other conditions.
(12) PROVIDER.—The term ‘‘provider’’ means a
provider of fixed or mobile broadband internet
access service.
(13) SHAPEFILE.—The term ‘‘shapefile’’ means
a digital storage format containing geospatial or
location-based data and attribute information—
(A) regarding the availability of broadband
internet access service; and
(B) that can be viewed, edited, and mapped in
geographic information system software.
(14) STANDARD BROADBAND INSTALLATION.—
The term ‘‘standard broadband installation’’—
(A) means the initiation by a provider of new
fixed broadband internet access service with no
charges or delays attributable to the extension
of the network of the provider; and
(B) includes the initiation of fixed broadband
internet access service through routine installa-
tion that can be completed not later than 10
business days after the date on which the serv-
ice request is submitted.
SEC. 3. BROADBAND MAPS.
(a) RULES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Commis-
sion shall issue final rules that shall—
(A) allow for the collection by the Commission
of accurate and granular data, not less fre-
quently than biannually—
(i) relating to the availability of terrestrial
fixed, fixed wireless, satellite, and mobile
broadband internet access service; and
(ii) that the Commission shall use to compile
the maps created under subsection (c)(1) (re-
ferred to in this section as ‘‘coverage maps’’),
which the Commission shall make publicly
available; and
(B) establish—
(i) processes through which the Commission
can verify the accuracy of data submitted under
subsection (b)(2);
(ii) processes and procedures through which
the Commission, and, as necessary, other enti-
ties or persons submitting information under
this Act, can protect the security, privacy, and
confidentiality of—
(I) information contained in the Fabric;
(II) the dataset created under subsection (b)(1)
supporting the Fabric; and
(III) the data submitted under subsection
(b)(2);
(iii) the challenge process described in sub-
section (b)(5); and
(iv) the process described in section 5(b).
(2) OTHER DATA.—In issuing the rules under
paragraph (1), the Commission shall develop a
process through which the Commission can col-
lect verified data for use in the coverage maps
from—
(A) State, local, and Tribal governmental enti-
ties that are primarily responsible for mapping
or tracking broadband internet access service
coverage for a State, unit of local government,
or Indian Tribe, as applicable;
(B) third parties, if the Commission determines
that it is in the public interest to use such data
in—
(i) the development of the coverage maps; or
(ii) the verification of data submitted under
subsection (b); and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.021 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7179
December 19, 2019
(C) other Federal agencies.
(3) UPDATES.—The Commission shall revise
the rules issued under paragraph (1) to—
(A) reflect changes in technology;
(B) ensure the accuracy of propagation mod-
els, as further provided in subsection (b)(3); and
(C) improve the usefulness of the coverage
maps.
(b) CONTENT OF RULES.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF A SERVICEABLE LOCA-
TION FABRIC REGARDING FIXED BROADBAND.—
(A) DATASET.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall create
a common dataset of all locations in the United
States where fixed broadband internet access
service can be installed, as determined by the
Commission.
(ii) CONTRACTING.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subclauses (II)
and (III), the Commission may contract with an
entity with expertise with respect to geographic
information systems (referred to in this sub-
section as ‘‘GIS’’) to create and maintain the
dataset under clause (i).
(II) APPLICATION OF THE FEDERAL ACQUISITION
REGULATION.—A contract into which the Com-
mission enters under subclause (I) shall in all
respects comply with applicable provisions of
the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(III) LIMITATIONS.—With respect to a contract
into which the Commission enters under sub-
clause (I)—
(aa) the entity with which the Commission
contracts shall be selected through a competitive
bid process that is transparent and open; and
(bb) the contract shall be for a term of not
longer than 5 years, after which the Commission
may enter into a new contract—
(AA) with an entity, and for the purposes, de-
scribed in subclause (I); and
(BB) that complies with the requirements
under subclause (II) and this subclause.
(B) FABRIC.—The rules issued by the Commis-
sion under subsection (a)(1) shall establish the
Broadband Serviceable Location Fabric, which
shall—
(i) contain geocoded information for each lo-
cation identified under subparagraph (A)(i);
(ii) serve as the foundation upon which all
data relating to the availability of fixed
broadband internet access service collected
under paragraph (2)(A) shall be reported and
overlaid;
(iii) be compatible with commonly used GIS
software; and
(iv) at a minimum, be updated annually by
the Commission.
(C) IMPLEMENTATION PRIORITY.—The Commis-
sion shall prioritize implementing the Fabric for
rural and insular areas of the United States.
(2) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—The rules
issued by the Commission under subsection
(a)(1) shall include uniform standards for the
reporting of broadband internet access service
data that the Commission shall collect—
(A) from each provider of terrestrial fixed,
fixed wireless, or satellite broadband internet
access service, which shall include data that—
(i) documents the areas where the provider—
(I) has actually built out the broadband net-
work infrastructure of the provider such that
the provider is able to provide that service; and
(II) could provide that service, as determined
by identifying where the provider is capable of
performing a standard broadband installation,
if applicable;
(ii) includes information regarding download
and upload speeds, at various thresholds estab-
lished by the Commission, and, if applicable, la-
tency with respect to broadband internet access
service that the provider makes available;
(iii) can be georeferenced to the GIS data in
the Fabric;
(iv) the provider shall report as—
(I) with respect to providers of fixed wireless
broadband internet access service—
(aa) propagation maps and propagation model
details that—
(AA) satisfy standards that are similar to
those applicable to providers of mobile
broadband internet access service under sub-
paragraph (B) with respect to propagation maps
and propagation model details, taking into ac-
count material differences between fixed wire-
less and mobile broadband internet access serv-
ice; and
(BB) reflect the speeds and latency of the
service provided by the provider; or
(bb) a list of addresses or locations that con-
stitute the service area of the provider, except
that the Commission—
(AA) may only permit, and not require, a pro-
vider to report the data using that means of re-
porting; and
(BB) in the rules issued under subsection
(a)(1), shall provide a method for using that
means of reporting with respect to Tribal areas;
and
(II) with respect to providers of terrestrial
fixed and satellite broadband internet access
service—
(aa) polygon shapefiles; or
(bb) a list of addresses or locations that con-
stitute the service area of the provider, except
that the Commission—
(AA) may only permit, and not require, a pro-
vider to report the data using that means of re-
porting; and
(BB) in the rules issued under subsection
(a)(1), shall provide a method for using that
means of reporting with respect to Tribal areas;
and
(v) the Commission determines is appropriate
with respect to certain technologies in order to
ensure that the Broadband Map is granular and
accurate; and
(B) from each provider of mobile broadband
internet access service, which shall include
propagation maps, and the propagation models
on which those maps are based, that indicate
the current (as of the date on which the infor-
mation is collected) fourth generation Long-
Term Evolution (commonly referred to as ‘‘4G
LTE’’) mobile broadband internet access service
coverage of the provider, which shall—
(i) take into consideration the effect of clutter;
and
(ii) satisfy—
(I) the requirements of having—
(aa) a download speed of 5 megabits per sec-
ond and an upload speed of 1 megabit per sec-
ond with a cell edge probability of not less than
90 percent; and
(bb) cell loading of 50 percent; and
(II) any other parameter that the Commission
determines to be necessary to create a map
under subsection (c)(1)(C) that is more precise
than the map produced as a result of the sub-
missions under the Mobility Fund Phase II in-
formation collection.
(3) UPDATE OF REPORTING STANDARDS FOR MO-
BILE BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE.—
For the purposes of paragraph (2)(B), if the
Commission determines that the reporting stand-
ards under that paragraph are insufficient to
collect accurate propagation maps and propaga-
tion model details with respect to future genera-
tions of mobile broadband internet access service
technologies, the Commission shall immediately
commence a rule making to adopt new reporting
standards with respect to those technologies
that—
(A) shall be the functional equivalent of the
standards required under paragraph (2)(B); and
(B) allow for the collection of propagation
maps and propagation model details that are as
accurate and granular as, or more accurate and
granular than, the maps and model details col-
lected by the Commission under paragraph
(2)(B).
(4) CERTIFICATION AND VERIFICATION.—With
respect to a provider that submits information to
the Commission under paragraph (2)—
(A) the provider shall include in each submis-
sion a certification from a corporate officer of
the provider that the officer has examined the
information contained in the submission and
that, to the best of the officer’s actual knowl-
edge, information, and belief, all statements of
fact contained in the submission are true and
correct; and
(B) the Commission shall verify the accuracy
and reliability of the information in accordance
with measures established by the Commission.
(5) CHALLENGE PROCESS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In the rules issued under
subsection (a), and subject to subparagraph (B),
the Commission shall establish a user-friendly
challenge process through which consumers,
State, local, and Tribal governmental entities,
and other entities may submit coverage data to
the Commission to challenge the accuracy of—
(i) the coverage maps;
(ii) any information submitted by a provider
regarding the availability of broadband internet
access service; or
(iii) the information included in the Fabric.
(B) CONSIDERATIONS; VERIFICATION; RESPONSE
TO CHALLENGES.—In establishing the challenge
process required under subparagraph (A), the
Commission shall—
(i) consider—
(I) the types of information that an entity
submitting a challenge should provide to the
Commission in support of the challenge;
(II) the appropriate level of granularity for
the information described in subclause (I);
(III) the need to mitigate the time and expense
incurred by, and the administrative burdens
placed on, entities in—
(aa) challenging the accuracy of a coverage
map; and
(bb) responding to challenges described in item
(aa); and
(IV) the costs to consumers and providers re-
sulting from a misallocation of funds because of
a reliance on outdated or otherwise inaccurate
information in the coverage maps;
(ii) include a process for verifying the data
submitted through the challenge process in
order to ensure the reliability of that data;
(iii) allow providers to respond to challenges
submitted through the challenge process; and
(iv) develop an online mechanism, which—
(I) shall be integrated into the coverage maps;
and
(II) allows for an entity described in subpara-
graph (A) to submit a challenge under the chal-
lenge process.
(C) USE OF CHALLENGES.—The rules issued to
establish the challenge process under subpara-
graph (A) shall include—
(i) a process for the speedy resolution of chal-
lenges; and
(ii) a process for the regular and expeditious
updating of the coverage maps as challenges are
resolved.
(6) REFORM OF FORM 477 PROCESS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date on which the rules issued under
subsection (a) take effect, the Commission
shall—
(i) reform the Form 477 broadband deployment
service availability collection process of the
Commission to make the process consistent with
this Act and the rules issued under this Act; and
(ii) remove duplicative reporting requirements
and procedures regarding the deployment of
broadband internet access service that, as of
that date, are in effect.
(B) CONTINUED COLLECTION AND REPORTING.—
On and after the date on which the Commission
carries out subparagraph (A), the Commission
shall continue to collect and publicly report sub-
scription data that the Commission collected
through the Form 477 broadband deployment
service availability process, as in effect on July
1, 2019.
(c) MAPS.—The Commission shall—
(1) create—
(A) the Broadband Map, which shall depict—
(i) the extent of the availability of broadband
internet access service in the United States,
without regard to whether that service is fixed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.003 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7180 December 19, 2019
broadband internet access service or mobile
broadband internet access service, which shall
be based on data collected by the Commission
from all providers; and
(ii) the areas of the United States that remain
unserved by providers;
(B) a map that depicts the availability of fixed
broadband internet access service, which shall
be based on data collected by the Commission
from providers under subsection (b)(2)(A); and
(C) a map that depicts the availability of mo-
bile broadband internet access service, which
shall be based on data collected by the Commis-
sion from providers under subsection (b)(2)(B);
(2) use the maps created under paragraph
(1)—
(A) to determine the areas in which terrestrial
fixed, fixed wireless, mobile, and satellite
broadband internet access service is and is not
available; and
(B) when making any new award of funding
with respect to the deployment of broadband
internet access service;
(3) update the maps created under paragraph
(1) not less frequently than biannually using
the most recent data collected from providers
under subsection (b)(2);
(4) establish a process requiring the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and the National Tele-
communications and Information Administra-
tion to consult the maps created under para-
graph (1) when, as of the date on which the
process is established or on any future date, dis-
tributing funds relating to the deployment of
broadband internet access service under any
program administered by the Rural Utilities
Service or the Administration, respectively; and
(5) establish a process to make the data col-
lected under subsection (b)(2) available to the
National Telecommunications and Information
Administration.
SEC. 4. ENFORCEMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for a
person or entity to willfully and knowingly, or
recklessly, submit information or data under
this Act that is materially inaccurate or incom-
plete with respect to the availability of
broadband internet access service.
(b) VIOLATIONS.—A violation of this Act shall
be treated as a violation of the Communications
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.), and the Com-
mission shall enforce this Act in the same man-
ner, by the same means, and with the same ju-
risdiction, powers, and duties as though all ap-
plicable terms and provisions of that Act were
incorporated into and made a part of this Act.
SEC. 5. IMPROVING DATA ACCURACY.
(a) AUDITS.—The Commission shall conduct
regular audits of information submitted to the
Commission by providers under section 3(b)(2) to
ensure that the providers are complying with
this Act.
(b) CROWDSOURCING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall de-
velop a process through which persons in the
United States may submit specific information
about the deployment and availability of
broadband internet access service in the United
States so that the information may be used to
verify and supplement information provided by
providers of broadband internet access service
for inclusion in the maps created under section
3(c)(1).
(2) COLLABORATION.—As part of the efforts of
the Commission to facilitate the ability of per-
sons to submit information under paragraph (1),
the Commission shall issue guidance and other
information as appropriate to ensure that the
information submitted is uniform and consistent
with the data submitted by providers under sec-
tion 3(b)(2).
(c) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO INDIAN
TRIBES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), the
Commission shall hold workshops for Tribal gov-
ernments in each of the 12 Bureau of Indian Af-
fairs regions to provide technical assistance
with the collection and submission of data
under section 3(a)(2).
(2) ANNUAL REVIEW.—Each year, the Commis-
sion, in consultation with Indian Tribes, shall
review the need for continued workshops re-
quired under paragraph (1).
(d) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL SERVICE
PROVIDERS.—The Commission shall establish a
process through which a provider that has fewer
than 100,000 active broadband internet access
service connections may request and receive as-
sistance from the Commission with respect to ge-
ographic information system data processing to
ensure that the provider is able to comply with
the requirements under section 3(b) in a timely
and accurate manner.
SEC. 6. COST.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Beginning with the first full
fiscal year after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Commission shall include in the budget
submission of the Commission to the President
under sections 1105(a) and 1108 of title 31,
United States Code, amounts sufficient to en-
sure the proper and continued functioning of
the responsibilities of the Commission under this
Act.
(b) COST OF FABRIC.—
(1) USF.—The Commission may not use funds
from the universal service programs of the Com-
mission established under section 254 of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 254), and
the regulations issued under that section, to pay
for any costs associated with this Act.
(2) OTHER FUNDS.—The Commission may re-
cover costs associated with this Act under sec-
tion 9 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 159) to the extent provided for in an ap-
propriation Act, as required under subsection
(a) of that section.
SEC. 7. OTHER PROVISIONS.
(a) OMB.—Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the initial rule making required
under section 3(a)(1) shall be exempt from re-
view by the Office of Management and Budget.
(b) PRA.—Chapter 35 of title 44, United States
Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Paperwork Re-
duction Act’’), shall not apply to the initial rule
making required under section 3(a)(1).
(c) EXECUTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES.—Except
as provided in section 3(b)(1)(A)(ii), the Commis-
sion—
(1) including the offices of the Commission,
shall carry out the responsibilities assigned to
the Commission under this Act; and
(2) may not delegate any of the responsibilities
assigned to the Commission under this Act to
any third party, including the Universal Service
Administrative Company.
(d) REPORTING.—Each fiscal year, the Com-
mission shall submit to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives a report that
summarizes the implementation of this Act and
associated enforcement activities conducted dur-
ing the previous fiscal year.
Mr. WICKER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the com-
mittee-reported amendment be with-
drawn; that the Wicker substitute
amendment at the desk be agreed to;
that the bill, as amended, be considered
read a third time and passed; and that
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment
was withdrawn.
The amendment (No. 1268), in the na-
ture of a substitute, was agreed to as
follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a sub-
stitute.)
(The amendment is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’)
The bill (S. 1822), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H.R. 4998
Mr. WICKER. Madam President, with
regard to the so-called ‘‘Rip and Re-
place Act’’ that would facilitate the
United States joining our allies and
protecting us, notwithstanding rule
XXII, I ask unanimous consent that
the Senate proceed to the immediate
consideration of H.R. 4998, which was
received from the House; that the bill
be considered read a third time and
passed; and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. LEE. Madam President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
Mr. LEE. Madam President, reserv-
ing the right to object, this is clearly
an effort to push through last-minute
changes on a single bill.
In my view, these changes are reck-
less, unnecessary, and unwise, and in
any event they were made without de-
bate by Members of this body and spe-
cifically contrary to the manner in
which this very same legislation was
reported out of the Senate Commerce
Committee.
I am glad to see the passage of a cou-
ple of pieces of legislation just now, in-
cluding the TRACED Act, which will
help us fight damaging robocalls. This
is good legislation. I am also sup-
portive of S. 1822, the Broadband DATA
Act, which will require much needed
updates to our broadband maps. These
are good pieces of legislation. I am glad
they are passed.
I am also very supportive of the leg-
islation that is the subject of the im-
mediate unanimous consent request;
that is, the Commerce Committee’s re-
ported version of S. 1625, the United
States 5G Leadership Act.
This is an important bill. It would
help us identify Huawei equipment pos-
ing an espionage risk in the United
States. It will ban the use of Universal
Service Fund dollars to purchase the
equipment and help reimburse small
companies for the costs associated with
ripping and replacing vulnerable equip-
ment.
This is an important bill, and it re-
ceived careful consideration during the
Senate Commerce Committee’s mark-
up on July 24, 2019.
The version of this bill that passed
the committee was supported unani-
mously by Democrats and Republicans
on both sides of the aisle. That version
required $700 million to be set aside in
a fund to help reimburse companies for
Huawei equipment replacements. The
bill specified that the source of this
funding was to come from the proceeds
of spectrum auctions. This was a smart
and good and carefully tailored pay-for
that did not add to our out-of-control
Federal spending.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.003 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7181
December 19, 2019
As currently written, the bill con-
tains a reference to a reimbursement
fund and assumes there will be reim-
bursements, but the bill does not speci-
fy how much funding is allocated, nor
does it specify the source of these
funds. I can only assume this means
the House and Senate Appropriations
Committees will default to authorizing
new funds rather than using the smart
pay-for that the Senate Commerce
Committee unanimously and wisely
agreed to in July.
For these reasons, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard.
Mr. LEE. Madam President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 1625
Mr. LEE. Madam President, notwith-
standing rule XXII, I ask unanimous
consent that the Commerce Committee
be discharged from further consider-
ation of S. 1625 and the Senate proceed
to its immediate consideration. I ask
unanimous consent that the amend-
ments ordered reported by the Com-
merce Committee be agreed to; that
the bill, as amended, be considered
read a third time and passed; and that
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. WICKER. Reserving the right to
object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
Mr. WICKER. Madam President, the
Senator, my good friend from Utah,
has asked unanimous consent that we
pass the version of the bill I authored.
Ordinarily, I would very much appre-
ciate that. The problem with his re-
quest is that in this Congress, it pre-
vents us from acting today to get to
this ZTE and Huawei problem. We have
a solution, and we need to get started
on it.
Let me also make the point that
some things are worth paying for, and
protecting Americans, protecting our
electronic system, our broadband com-
munications from the Chinese-owned
Huawei and ZTE is worth paying for.
What my unanimous consent request
would have done, had the Senator not
objected, is we would have passed the
bill and leave the issue of how we fund
it to another day. Perhaps the appro-
priators would have decided to appro-
priate money for it. Had they done so,
they would have operated within the
budget caps, as the Appropriations
Committee has done, and found room,
found some offsets, and paid for it that
way.
The proposal I made, that was ob-
jected to by my friend from Utah,
would also have left open the possi-
bility of having a pay-for by the sale of
some spectrum.
I regret that the Senator is objecting
based on how we will pay for this very
needed expenditure down the road. So I
am compelled to object to my good
friend’s unanimous consent request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. LEE. Madam President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
Mr. LEE. Madam President, where I
come from in Utah, $700 million is a lot
of money. Seven hundred million dol-
lars is something we ought to worry
about where we are going to get it.
It is not unreasonable for us to re-
quest that the House of Representa-
tives agree to the language we unani-
mously, on a bipartisan basis, passed
out of the Senate Commerce Com-
mittee.
In my mind, it is unfortunate that we
are allowing the House of Representa-
tives’ unreasonable, unwarranted de-
mand—a demand the chairman of the
Commerce Committee himself ac-
knowledges is one they shouldn’t ob-
ject to—to rule the day and prevent
this legislation from becoming law.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wisconsin.
Ms. BALDWIN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak for up
to 6 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO BILL MURAT
Ms. BALDWIN. Madam President, I
rise today with great pride to recognize
and honor my chief of staff and dear
friend Bill Murat, who will retire at
the end of this year after 21 years of
working in Congress.
It is a rare thing in Washington to
work side by side with the same person
for more than 20 years.
So on the eve of your retirement,
Bill, I want to share a few words about
how much you have meant to me and
the countless others you have encoun-
tered during your long and storied ca-
reer.
Bill Murat is a proud son of Stevens
Point, WI. He graduated from high
school and college there, earned his GD
from UW Law School and his MBA
from Columbia University.
Civically engaged since his youth, he
served as district attorney for Portage
County, WI, prior to his election to the
Wisconsin State Assembly in 1994. It
was there that Bill and I developed a
friendship as colleagues in the Wis-
consin State Assembly in the 1990s. I
found him to be earnest, hard-working,
a brilliant strategist, and lovely story-
teller. He also knew when to add good
humor or a note of levity.
I remember fondly one night, during
a midnight session of the assembly,
when Bill and I and a few of our Repub-
lican colleagues were on the floor wait-
ing for a vote while many of our col-
leagues were still in their respective
caucuses trying to hash out an agree-
ment on an issue. Being a big fan of
Broadway, Bill was reflecting on how
this moment felt like a particular song
from the musical ‘‘Oklahoma.’’ There,
on the floor of the Wisconsin State As-
sembly, while in recess in the wee
hours, on a bipartisan basis, he broke
out in song, singing: ‘‘The farmer and
the cowman should be friends.’’ Be-
cause this is a speech about Bill Murat,
this will not be the last time I mention
show tunes.
After I was elected to the House of
Representatives, Bill came to work
with me, first, as my district director
and then, starting in 2001, as my chief
of staff. Bill’s steady hand of leadership
has helped me weather the storms
Washington brings and stay focused on
what matters most—the people we
serve in Wisconsin.
I remember the days after September
11, 2001. It was chaotic, weighty, and,
frankly, a scary time in Washington
and across our Nation. I had to get
back to Wisconsin, but planes were
still grounded. So Bill walked into my
office and simply said: ‘‘Need a ride?’’
So, together, we made that 14-hour trip
home from Washington, DC, to Madi-
son, WI, noting the American flags
that were hung from nearly every high-
way bridge we passed under and consid-
ering the gravity of the new world we
were seeing emerge.
Bill has been by my side for the highs
and the lows of my time in Congress. I
am so proud of what we have done to-
gether, working to do right by the peo-
ple of Wisconsin and to pass on to the
next generation a country that is more
equal, not less. His generosity of spirit
extends to every constituent in Wis-
consin, every colleague in Congress,
and every staffer who has worked for
him. His door is always open, and he
has been a mentor to so many people
who have worked in the Baldwin offices
over the years.
In fact, I know there are several
former staff members of mine who have
Bill to thank for their love of Broad-
way, since he used to host ‘‘Better Liv-
ing through Show Tunes’’ as evening
staff events. To be honest, I am still
jealous that these show tune nights al-
ways happened after ‘‘wheels up’’ and I
was headed home to Wisconsin.
On a more serious note, Bill is a
fierce advocate and ardent supporter of
our Team Tammy family. He has led by
example, encouraging young people to
pursue their passions, doling out career
advice to those who need it and listen-
ing to the concerns of others, whether
they are a Senate employee or a Wis-
consinite looking for some assistance.
Bill has spent over three decades
working on behalf of the great State of
Wisconsin. He and I have accomplished
much together. I would not be here
today without him, and I am grateful
for his friendship. I thank him from the
bottom of my heart for the years of
service, and I wish him the most fabu-
lous retirement.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. LANKFORD. Madam President,
very shortly, the Senate will vote on
the motion to concur in the House
amendment to the Senate amendment
to accompany H.R. 1865, Further Con-
solidated Appropriations Act. As part
of this appropriations package. a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.023 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7182 December 19, 2019
version of my bill, the Promoting Secu-
rity and Justice for Victims of Ter-
rorism Act of 2019, is included in sec-
tion 903. This bipartisan bill seeks to
restore U.S. court jurisdiction over the
Palestinian Authority, PA/Palestine
Liberation Organization, PLO, while
promoting U.S. foreign policy interests
in the Middle East through the resump-
tion of U.S. security assistance to PA
security forces. It is a testament to the
hard work of my Democratic and Re-
publican colleagues in this Chamber
that we are about to take up this im-
portant legislation.
In 1992, Congress passed the Anti-Ter-
rorism Act, ATA. This law, as well as
future amending legislation, sought to
deter and defeat international ter-
rorism by giving American citizens
who are victims of terrorism overseas
the power to sue perpetrators in U.S.
court. I was privileged to work with
the original ATA’s author, Senator
GRASSLEY, in drafting the Promoting
Security and Justice for Victims of
Terrorism Act of 2019.
What our bill—also sponsored by Sen-
ators DUCKWORTH, COONS, BLUMENTHAL,
and RUBIO—does is strike a balance be-
tween Congress’s desire to provide a
path forward for American victims of
terror to have their day in court and
the toleration by the Members of this
body to allow the PA/PLO to conduct a
very narrow scope of activities on U.S.
soil—such as activities pertaining to
official business at the United Nations,
engagements with U.S. officials nec-
essary to our national interest, and
legal expenses related to adjudicating
or resolving claims filed in U.S.
courts—without consenting to personal
jurisdiction in civil ATA cases. This
delicate balance is supported by a bi-
partisan coalition of Members of Con-
gress, the executive branch, and Amer-
ican victims of international terrorism
and their families.
For 25 years, the Federal courts
struck this balance by holding that the
PLO’s and PA’s presence and activities
in the United States subject them to
jurisdiction in our courts unless they
can demonstrate that their offices in
the United States deal exclusively with
the official business of the United Na-
tions and that their activities in this
country are commensurate with their
special diplomatic need for being
present here.
The courts correctly held that the
PLO’s and PA’s fundraising and public
relations activities such as press re-
leases and public appearances, whether
characterized as diplomatic public
speaking or proselytizing, are not es-
sential to their diplomatic functions at
the United Nations Headquarters. The
bill codifies the distinction recognized
in these cases while giving the PLO
and PA a clear choice. Unless they
limit their presence to official business
with the United Nations and their U.S.
activities commensurate with their
special diplomatic need to be in the
United States, they will be consenting
to personal jurisdiction in ATA cases.
In this regard, the exception in the
language for ‘‘ancillary’’ activities is
intended to permit only essential sup-
port or services that are absolutely
necessary to facilitate the conduct of
diplomatic activities expressly exempt-
ed in the bill.
By applying the bill to any case
pending on or after August 30, 2016, we
are making clear Congress’s intent
that courts have the power to restore
jurisdiction in cases previously dis-
missed for lack of jurisdiction after
years of litigation. It is to be liberally
construed to carry out the purposes of
Congress to provide relief for victims
of terrorism, and it specifies Congress’s
intent to enable victims to pursue jus-
tice without being subjected to repet-
itive, unnecessary, or protracted litiga-
tion, which would just reopen the pain
that many Americans have already suf-
fered through.
As the Congress finishes its final
week of the first session of the 116th
Congress, I look forward to voting in
favor of this important legislation and
urge my colleagues to do the same.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
in October the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee marked up and passed S. 2132,
the Promoting Security and Justice for
Victims of Terrorism Act of 2019. I am
happy to say that after further good
faith negotiations among key stake-
holders within and outside of Congress,
a version of the bill is included in the
appropriations package the Senate will
soon consider.
I am proud to be a lead cosponsor of
this bipartisan bill and to have helped
lead it through the Judiciary Com-
mittee. Senator LANKFORD, who intro-
duced this legislation, has tirelessly
worked to get it across the finish line
in the Senate. From day one of this ef-
fort, American victims of terrorism
have had a tremendous ally in the Sen-
ator from Oklahoma and his staff, and
I thank him for his leadership.
Earlier today, Senator LANKFORD dis-
cussed parts of this bipartisan legisla-
tion in greater detail. I would like to
associate myself with his remarks.
I am also very grateful to Senators
DUCKWORTH, RUBIO, BLUMENTHAL, and
COONS for their support and work on
behalf of victims.
It is not easy to find common ground
here in the Senate, but there is one
issue where we should all agree: Those
who aid or carry out terrorist attacks
overseas that kill or injure Americans
should be held fully accountable in our
justice system.
For over 25 years, the Anti-Terrorism
Act of 1992, ATA, which I authored and
Congress unanimously passed, has em-
powered American victims of inter-
national terrorism to bring lawsuits in
Federal courts to vindicate their rights
and obtain compensation for their inju-
ries—providing some semblance of jus-
tice.
Equally important, these lawsuits
disrupt and deter the financial support
of terrorist organizations. By cutting
terrorists’ financial lifelines, the ATA
is a key part of the U.S. arsenal in
fighting terrorism and protecting
American citizens.
The 1992 law removed the jurisdic-
tional hurdles that had for so long frus-
trated or outright prevented American
victims’ ability to seek justice in U.S.
courts for attacks committed overseas.
Congress passed the ATA in the wake
of international terrorist attacks, in-
cluding the Palestine Liberation
Front’s 1985 killing of Leon
Klinghoffer, a Jewish American aboard
the Achille Lauro cruise ship.
For 25 years the law worked as in-
tended. The Palestine Liberation Orga-
nization, PLO, and Palestinian Author-
ity themselves were repeatedly held to
account in U.S. courts and paid a price
for terrorist attacks that harmed or
killed Americans. But starting in 2015,
lower court decisions made it impos-
sible for American victims injured
abroad to hold sponsors of inter-
national terrorism accountable in our
own courts. These decisions nullified
the fundamental purpose of the ATA—
to protect Americans wherever in the
world they may be—and disrespected
Congress’s power to protect U.S. citi-
zens and U.S. interests.
Last year, I introduced the bipar-
tisan Anti-Terrorism Clarification Act
of 2018, ATCA, in direct response to
those court decisions, including
Sokolow v. PLO in the second Circuit
and Livnat v. Palestinian Authority in
the DC Circuit. Congress passed the
ATCA—once again, without objection—
to restore jurisdiction and thereby fi-
nally secure justice for victims.
The ATCA expressed a clear prin-
ciple: If the PLO and Palestinian Au-
thority continued to maintain any of-
fice or facility in the United States, or
accepted taxpayer-funded U.S. assist-
ance, they would be answerable in our
courts for perpetrating or supporting
terrorism that harmed or killed Ameri-
cans. The bipartisan bill was consid-
ered through regular order as a stand-
alone bill, with markups in both Cham-
bers, passed Congress without objec-
tion, and was signed into law by Presi-
dent Trump in October of 2018.
Shortly thereafter, instead of facing
justice in our courts, the Palestinian
Authority rejected all U.S.-backed hu-
manitarian assistance provided to the
West Bank and Gaza. In its zeal to
dodge legal responsibility, the Pales-
tinian Authority even prevented non-
governmental organization, NGO, from
receiving U.S. assistance.
The Palestinian Authority’s strategi-
cally overbroad interpretation of the
ATCA harmed the very people it claims
to represent on the international stage.
After inexcusable objections and
delays—which I previously outlined on
the Senate floor—the State Depart-
ment finally began to constructively
work with me and my colleagues to im-
prove upon the ATCA, respond to the
Palestinian Authority’s actions, and fi-
nally remove the jurisdictional hurdles
imposed on American victims by
flawed court decisions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:11 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.004 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7183
December 19, 2019
The Promoting Security and Justice
for Victims of Terrorism Act of 2019 is
the product of those negotiations and
enables victims of terrorism to vindi-
cate their rights in U.S. courts. It also
responds directly to the Palestinian
Authority’s shameful blocking of secu-
rity assistance and humanitarian serv-
ices. This bill marks a rare com-
promise reached by American victims
of terrorism and the State Department.
I hope it in some way also sets a new
precedent for our own State Depart-
ment to continue working on behalf of
and never again at odds with American
victims.
During the bill’s markup this past
October, Senator COONS offered an
amendment that I cosponsored to add
another important means of securing
jurisdiction in our courts over the PLO
and Palestinian Authority: If they pay
terrorists or families of terrorists who
injured or killed Americans, then that
reprehensible conduct will be grounds
for jurisdiction in ATA cases. This is a
sound addition to the bill to support
the United States’ global fight against
terrorism, as reflected in years of legis-
lation—most recently the Taylor Force
Act. The PLO and Palestinian
Authority’s ‘‘pay to slay’’ policies are
nothing short of an incitement for fur-
ther acts of terrorism. Connecting
these payments to jurisdiction in ATA
cases is perhaps the least Congress
should do to further discourage such
conduct and protect Americans abroad.
The bill also sends a clear signal that
Congress intends to empower courts to
restore jurisdiction in cases previously
dismissed.
The American principle that every-
one deserves meaningful access to jus-
tice is as old as the Constitution itself.
This bipartisan bill will reopen the
courthouse doors to American victims
and their families. I am grateful for its
inclusion in the appropriations meas-
ure that the Senate will soon consider.
Once again, I want to thank Senator
LANKFORD for his leadership and tire-
less work these past several months on
behalf of American victims of ter-
rorism.
Finally, I also want to thank Chair-
man GRAHAM for making this bill a pri-
ority in the Judiciary Committee. I
now urge all of my colleagues’ support
for this important and bipartisan
measure.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
rise today in support of the fiscal year
2020 Appropriations bill for the Depart-
ments of Transportation, Housing and
Urban Development, and Related Agen-
cies. This bill is included in the appro-
priations package that is before this
Chamber.
Let me begin my remarks by thank-
ing Chairman SHELBY and Vice Chair-
man LEAHY for their bipartisan leader-
ship in successfully finishing the con-
ference and advancing all of these ap-
propriations bills to the Senate floor.
I also want to acknowledge the hard
work and strong commitment of my
friend and colleague Senator JACK
REED, the ranking member of the T-
HUD Subcommittee. We have worked
closely together in negotiating this bill
and have crafted a truly bipartisan
product.
The fiscal year 2020 transportation
and housing appropriations bill pro-
vides $74.3 billion to continue to im-
prove our Nation’s infrastructure and
maintain HUD rental assistance for
low-income seniors, homeless youths,
and other vulnerable populations. This
year, we once again faced the funding
challenge of rising rental costs across
the country and a reduction in the re-
ceipts from the Federal Housing Ad-
ministration that are used to offset
some of the spending in this bill.
However, we were successful in main-
taining many of the Senate priorities
in the final bill. For example, the bill
provides $1 billion for the highly effec-
tive and popular BUILD grant pro-
gram, which has provided $205 million
in critical infrastructure improve-
ments in Maine since 2009. In addition,
the bill includes $1.15 billion for bridge
repair and rehabilitation, with a focus
on those States with the greatest
needs. The need for additional bridge
funding is clear across the country and
was highlighted in my home State of
Maine by grant awards for projects
such as the Station 46 Bridge and the
Sarah Mildred Long Bridge.
The infrastructure funding in this
bill not only addresses the transpor-
tation challenges we face but also cre-
ates jobs and economic growth in each
and every one of our homes. The Amer-
ican Society of Civil Engineers’ most
recent report card from 2017 shows that
America’s infrastructure remains in
poor condition with a grade of D+. This
poor rating is not only detrimental for
the movement of people and goods but
also harmful from a safety perspective.
I am also particularly proud of the
$300 million for the third National Se-
curity Multi-Mission Vessel which will
serve as the new training vessel for
Maine Maritime Academy. The new
NSMV will play a critical role in train-
ing the next generation of U.S. mari-
ners. This new ship will ensure that ca-
dets receive the training hours they
need to graduate and join the work-
force in the merchant marine, Navy,
and Coast Guard.
Another important issue, particu-
larly to Senator REED and me, is reduc-
ing lead paint in homes. That is of par-
ticular health concern to families with
children under the age of 6. The bill
provides $290 million to combat lead
hazards, a historic level of funding.
Lead paint hazards are a significant
concern for Maine families, as 57 per-
cent of our housing stock was con-
structed prior to 1978, the year lead-
based paint was banned. These grants
will help communities protect children
from the harmful lifelong effects of
lead poisoning.
Finally, I do want to mention that
the bill provides additional funding for
the FAA’s aviation safety programs in
light of two Boeing crashes. This fund-
ing ensures that the agency has the
necessary staff and training, as well as
safety data reporting systems going
forward. Our Committee remains fo-
cused on this issue to ensure that we
maintain the Nation’s safest airspace.
I appreciate the opportunity to
present this important legislation to
the Chamber. As we begin debate on
the Transportation-HUD bill, I urge my
colleagues to support the investments
in this bill that benefit our commu-
nities all across this Nation and the
families, veterans, children, and our
seniors that rely on these programs.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
rise today as a member of the Defense
Appropriations Subcommittee to ex-
press my support for this appropria-
tions bill and to highlight a number of
important provisions for both our na-
tional security and the State of Maine.
I would first like to thank Chairman
SHELBY and Ranking Member DURBIN,
as well as Vice-Chairman LEAHY, for
their work and leadership on the com-
mittee and their willingness to come
together to complete what is a strong,
bipartisan final bill.
The bipartisan work of the Defense
Subcommittee is vitally important to
ensure our men and women in uniform
are able to fight and defend our Nation
as well as deter potential adversaries.
It also ensures our DOD civilians have
the resources they need to support
those servicemembers and keep our
ships, planes, and vehicles at the ready.
The bill before us today supports a
military pay increase of 3.1 percent—
the largest in a decade. It also recog-
nizes the value of our civilian work-
force by also supporting an average pay
increase of 3.1 percent for DOD civil-
ians.
The bill recognizes the necessity of
building and maintaining a strong
Navy. It provides nearly $24 billion for
new Navy battle force ships, including
more than $5 billion for three DDG–51
destroyers. Looking ahead to next
year, it also provides an additional $390
million above the amount requested in
the President’s budget request for
DDG–51 advanced procurement. This
demonstrates Congress’s intent that
the Department sustain an aggressive
growth rate for large surface combat-
ants in fiscal year 2021 and beyond.
In Maine, we are very proud of the
role that Bath Iron Works plays in con-
tributing to our national security,
building the finest ships in our fleet.
This bill includes $130 million to invest
in our Nation’s large surface combat-
ant industrial base, ensuring Bath Iron
Works can efficiently design and build
our Navy’s fleet long into the future.
BIW is known throughout the Navy
for the high-quality of the ships they
build, with many Sailors using our
motto that ‘‘Bath Built is Best Built.’’
BIW employs the finest shipbuilders,
engineers, and designers in the world,
and this bill rightly recognizes the
great value that these tried-and-tested
warships bring to the Navy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.008 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7184 December 19, 2019
This bill supports our nation’s public
shipyards, which are truly the back-
bone of our Navy’s submarine fleet. It
funds our Navy’s maintenance activi-
ties, ensuring workers at Portsmouth
Naval Shipyard and other shipyards
can carry out their work keeping our
Nation’s submarines at sea.
The bill also makes clear that the
Navy should continue to invest in the
very successful apprenticeship pro-
grams at our public shipyards—which
has been incredibly successful at
PNSY—as well as work to address the
availability of Virginia-class sub-
marine materials at our shipyards.
This bill makes critical investments
in research and development programs,
which are being carried out in partner-
ship with research institutions, includ-
ing the University of Maine. These pro-
grams include producing jet fuel from
Maine’s forest biomass; developing hy-
brid composite structures for the Navy;
and funding for DOD to utilize
UMaine’s new 3D printer, the largest in
the world, for cutting-edge defense re-
search and rapid prototyping.
This bill invests in fifth-generation
aircraft we need to deter Russia and
China by funding 98 F–35 aircraft 20
more than initially requested by the
Department. These advanced, stealthy
jets are key to dominating the skies,
and I am proud of Pratt and Whitney’s
contributions to the program through
its construction of the F135 engine at
its facility in North Berwick, ME. Ad-
ditionally, the bill procures six CH–53K
Heavy Lift helicopters for the Marine
Corps. The rotating drive shafts are a
critical moment of the aircraft and are
produced at Hunting Dearborn’s facil-
ity in Fryeburg, ME.
The National Guard provides our
country with both a strategic and oper-
ational reserve which has proven itself
time and time again. I applaud the
bill’s inclusion of $1.3 billion to the Na-
tional Guard and Reserve equipment
account to help modernize our Reserve
forces. It also notes the critical capa-
bility that the National Guard provides
to State governments in DOD’s cyber
defense mission and urges the Depart-
ment to ensure there are cyber capa-
bilities within the Guard in every
State.
Mr. President, I look forward to
working with my colleagues to pass
this important legislation.
Mr.VAN HOLLEN. Madam President,
I rise to express my concerns with H.R.
158, the appropriations package to fund
the Department of Defense, the Census
Bureau, the Department of Justice,
NASA, the Treasury, and the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
As a representative of many Federal
employees in the State of Maryland
and a member of the Appropriations
Committee, I take the responsibility of
funding the government extremely se-
riously. The decisions we make in the
appropriations bills govern the oper-
ations of the Federal Government and
its programs to serve the American
people, keep them safe, and foster op-
portunity.
I have also been deeply disturbed by
this Administration’s efforts to dis-
regard the appropriations bills that
Congress has passed and the President
has signed by transferring funds from
one account to another and, in some
cases, failing to spend duly appro-
priated dollars in a timely fashion. In
order to assert Congress’s authority to
make the laws that the administration
must faithfully execute, I have advo-
cated for greater transparency through
disclosure of the apportionment docu-
ments used by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget to plan spending
schedules among agencies and for re-
strictions on the administration’s au-
thority to transfer funds between pro-
grams. We have seen that this Presi-
dent does not care about, congressional
intent and will flout the law to use
American taxpayer money build a bor-
der wall that he said Mexico would pay
for. The funds appropriated by Con-
gress cannot be not be allowed to be
taken away and redirected on the whim
of a President. So I am disappointed
that this bill does not include meaning-
ful restrictions on transfer authority.
It also does not include House lan-
guage to require disclosure of appor-
tionment documents—language that is
similar to an amendment I offered that
was passed on a bipartisan basis as part
of a bill in the Budget Committee. I ap-
preciate the hard-won provisions in the
bill to bolster efforts to oversee and
correct abuses in this administration’s
disgraceful detention policy that has
separated children from their parents
and funding for alternatives to deten-
tion family case Management. The bill
rightfully rejects the President’s re-
quest to increase his ICE and Border
Patrol forces and prohibits border fenc-
ing in environmentally sensitive areas.
But I remain deeply concerned that the
President still can—and judging by
past actions, likely will—transfer re-
sources to support his damaging agen-
da.
I am pleased that this bill provides a
well-deserved 3.1 percent pay increase
for Federal employees who serve our
Nation admirably every day. I am a co-
sponsor of the legislation to do that
and glad that it has been included in
this bill However, I am concerned that
the bill does not include House-passed
language to counter the President’s
Executive orders that undermine Fed-
eral employee collective bargaining
and have resulted in a number of anti-
worker contracts. Federal employees
are prohibited from bargaining on
wages and benefits, so they focus their
efforts on improving the operations of
their offices. We should not impede
their efforts to establish better work-
ing conditions, protect the civil service
from political reprisals, and arbitrate
disputes between management and the
rank-and-file. I will continue to fight
for fair treatment of Federal work-
force.
I appreciate the willingness of Chair-
man SHELBY and Vice Chairman LEAHY
to work with me and with Congress-
woman ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON to
provide the District of Columbia with
funding to cover past inauguration and
Fourth of July expenses. But I am
deeply disappointed that the bill con-
tinues to include shameful political
policy riders for the District of Colum-
bia that place restrictions on how the
District spends its own money. The
U.S. Congress should stop acting like
we run the city of Washington, DC.
Elected officials from the District
should be able to enact laws that ad-
dress the needs of their constituents
without Congress looking over their
shoulder. As I stated during our full
committee markup of the Financial
Services and General Government Ap-
propriations bill, we must remove
these restrictions—which none of us
would accept for our own States.
Despite my reservations about the
bill, it does include funding for many
important programs. It fully funds the
First Step Act to implement needed
criminal justice reform, rejects the
President’s request to eliminate the
Legal Services Corporation, and in-
cludes resources for law enforcement to
address crime and fight opioid and drug
trafficking. It fully funds the Census, a
constitutionally mandated effort to
count everyone in the United States
and ensure that every community re-
ceives the resources it needs. It rejects
the President’s cuts to a number of im-
portant programs at NASA Goddard in
Maryland, including the PACE Pro-
gram, W-FIRST, and carbon moni-
toring. These programs are essential to
our understanding of the universe and
to own world and have been on the
Trump chopping block year after year.
I will continue to fight to make sure
they are adequately funded. It fully
funds the James Webb Space Telescope,
supports RESTORE-L, and increases
the base budget for Earth Science.
NOAA and NIST, which are also
headquartered in Maryland, will re-
ceive modest increases instead of the
Administration’s proposed cuts. The
bill also includes important funding for
defense installations in Maryland. This
funding, coupled with the National De-
fense Authorization Act, which I was
proud to support and which included a
military pay increase and for the first
time paid parental leave for federal
employees, will ensure that the men
and women of the military will receive
benefits they deserve. Finally, the bill
rejects the President’s request to
eliminate the Economic Development
Administration and preserves funding
for cooperative agreements between
the Minority Business Development
Agency and Minority Business Devel-
opment Centers—three of which serve
Maryland.
I recognize that no bill is perfect and
that appropriations bills require com-
promise. I respect the work that Chair-
man SHELBY, Vice Chairman LEAHY,
and their staffs have put into this leg-
islation and am grateful for their will-
ingness to work with me on many
Maryland priorities. However, I believe
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.011 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7185
December 19, 2019
that we must take steps to assert
Congress’s role in the appropriations
process in the face of a President who
is willing to disregard the laws we
pass—and he signs—to further his indi-
vidual agenda. Because this bill does
not restrict the President’s ability to
flout Congress’s stated intent, I regret
that I cannot vote for it.
f
ALTERNATIVE FUEL MIXTURE
CREDIT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to engage in a
colloquy with Finance Committee
Ranking Member WYDEN to discuss a
tax provision included in the spending
package currently before the Senate.
The tax title in this bill contains an
important clarification to the alter-
native fuel mixture tax credit under
section 6426(e). This credit is intended
to promote the use of nontraditional
fuels, such as compressed natural gas
and biomass-based fuels, for transpor-
tation and other purposes. Unfortu-
nately, some in the oil industry have
sought to turn this credit on its head
by claiming the credit for ordinary gas-
oline based on the amount of butane
mixed in. Ranking Member WYDEN, is
it correct that every gallon of gasoline
produced in the United States includes
some amount of butane?
Mr. WYDEN. That is correct. All gas-
oline includes butane and, as far as I
am aware, always has. Adding butane
during the gasoline refining process is
simply how gasoline is produced. The
idea that Congress intended oil compa-
nies to benefit from a credit intended
to reduce our dependence on tradi-
tional gasoline by rewarding them for
making traditional gasoline doesn’t
pass the commonsense test. This is
why the Internal Revenue Service has
correctly denied such claims. However,
the oil industry is litigating this issue
in the hopes of winning a nearly $50 bil-
lion windfall for producing gasoline the
same way they have for a century. Mr.
Chairman, am I correct that Congress
never intended for gasoline to qualify
for this credit based on its butane con-
tent?
Mr. GRASSLEY. I can assure the
Senator that it was never Congress’s
intent for gasoline to qualify for this
tax credit. I was chairman of the Sen-
ate Finance Committee when the alter-
native fuel mixture credit was enacted
in 2005 as part of a surface transpor-
tation bill. During that time, there was
great interest in reducing our depend-
ence on foreign oil and traditional
fuels. The alternative fuel mixture
credit was added to reduce that depend-
ence, not to provide a handout to large
oil and gas companies. The fact is, if
anyone had thought oil companies
could qualify for this crediw they al-
ready engaged in, the credit would
never have been enacted. Not only
would I have objected on policy
grounds, but the Joint Committee on
Taxation’s revenue score associated
with the provision would have been so
large that its passage wouldn’t have
been feasible. What is more, if we had
intended for butane mixed with gaso-
line to qualify when the credit was en-
acted in 2005, I don’t understand why
industry waited more than 10 years to
start claiming the credit for doing
what they have been doing for more
than a century, as you point out.
Mr. WYDEN. Thank you for that
background, Mr. Chairman. I agree
with you that it is clear that the ben-
efit some in the oil and gas industry
are seeking from this provision is ille-
gitimate. However, given the signifi-
cant amount of taxpayer dollars at
stake should these companies somehow
prevail in litigation, it is also impor-
tant for Congress to provide clarity in
this area, to protect the public purse.
The tax package under consideration in
the spending bill addresses this by
amending the alternative fuel mixture
credit to more explicitly deny the cred-
it for butane mixed with gasoline, con-
sistent congressional intent. This clari-
fication is effective for any claims filed
on or after January 8, 2018, when the
IRS issued a formal revenue ruling put-
ting taxpayers on notice that a mix-
ture of butane and gasoline does not
qualify for the credit. However, this
does not mean we agree that such mix-
tures prior to January 8, 2018, qualify
for the credit, and, in fact, we are of
the opinion that they do not. Do you
agree Mr. Chairman?
Mr. GRASSLEY. I do agree. The IRS
got the law correct when it issued Rev-
enue Ruling 2018–2, and our clarifica-
tion makes clear that it is our intent
for the IRS interpretation of the law to
be controlling for all claims. This is
the basis of the ‘‘no inference’’ lan-
guage in the bill that states: ‘‘Nothing
contained in this subsection or the
amendments made by this subsection
shall be construed to create any infer-
ence as to a change in law or guidance
in effect prior to enactment of this sub-
section.’’
I thank the ranking member for en-
gaging in this colloquy to discuss this
important issue and the clarification
included in the pending appropriations
bill.
Ms. BALDWIN. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
POINT OF ORDER
Mr. ENZI. Madam President, I rise to
raise a point of order on the Further
Consolidated Appropriations Act of
2020, which provides funding for eight
appropriations subcommittees and in-
cludes numerous tax and healthcare
provisions and other new legislation
called ‘‘authorizations.’’ That is code
for bills that haven’t been debated on
the Senate floor. These are Christmas
presents for everyone, all put on the
Federal credit card, which is overspent
already.
This legislation was unveiled Monday
afternoon and totals more than 1,800
pages, and here we are on Thursday,
with just hours to go before a govern-
ment shutdown, being asked to vote on
a bill that has not been subject to
amendment or debate and that the
Congressional Budget Office tells us
will increase deficits by more than $400
billion over the next 10 years. Actually,
by the time you add in interest costs to
this debt, it is half a trillion in 10 years
and $2.1 trillion on 20 years. That is ac-
cording to the Committee for Respon-
sible Federal Budget, which added in
that interest. They added it up. So that
will be half a trillion dollars of new
overspending in one vote, and what
makes it so expensive is that we are
trying to do something here to buy
everybody’s vote.
This bill completely bypassed regular
order and violates nearly all the Sen-
ate self-imposed budget rules with its
billions of dollars in giveaways and tax
policy changes. We are legislating on
funding bills. Legislation is supposed
to be scrutinized differently, especially
if they pay out real money.
I will remind my colleagues that our
national debt stands at just over $23
trillion, and the Congressional Budget
Office tells us that the Federal deficits
are already on track to exceed $1 tril-
lion this year and every year there-
after. That is besides this $2.1 trillion
add-on.
We should be talking about how to
address the budgetary mess we are in,
not pressing the gas on an
unsustainable fiscal trajectory, which
is exactly what this bill does. We are
making promises that can’t be ful-
filled.
Now, some people will mention the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, but I need to
emphasize and remind you that that
boosted the economy. It created jobs, it
increased wages, and it is bringing in
more revenue than ever before—ever
before. But we are spending it faster
than it is coming in. So it is not a rev-
enue problem. It is a spending problem.
Now, rather than an aberration, bust-
ing has become commonplace. This is
the second time this week that I have
come to the floor to raise a point of
order against legislation that violates
the budget. But to be fair, from a budg-
et perspective, this bill is exponen-
tially worse than the Defense author-
ization bill we considered earlier this
year. It is at least 50 times worse.
I oppose this legislation. I oppose
adding to the already massive debt bur-
den being placed on future generations.
The pending measure, the House
amendment to the Senate amendment
to H.R. 1865, the Further Consolidated
Appropriations Act of 2020, would cause
a deficit increase of more than $5 bil-
lion in each of the four consecutive 10-
year periods beginning in fiscal year
2030. This increase violates section 3101
of the 2016 budget resolution. There-
fore, I raise a point of order under sec-
tion 3101(b) of S. Con. Res. 11, the con-
current resolution on the budget for
fiscal year 2016.
I have been here long enough to know
that you will now hear a list of wonder-
ful things that are on this bill. You
will not hear how to pay for all of these
Christmas presents.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.012 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7186 December 19, 2019
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
VOTE ON MOTION TO WAIVE
Mr. SHELBY. Madam President, pur-
suant to section 904 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974 and the waiv-
er provisions of applicable budget reso-
lutions, I move to waive all applicable
sections of that act and applicable
budget resolutions for purposes of con-
sideration of the message to accom-
pany H.R. 1865, and I ask for the yeas
and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be.
The yeas and nays are ordered.
Under the previous order, the motion
to concur with the amendment is with-
drawn.
The question is on agreeing to the
motion to waive.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 64,
nays 30, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 414 Leg.]
YEAS—64
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—30
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Carper
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gillibrand
Hawley
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Perdue
Risch
Romney
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Sullivan
Tester
Toomey
Whitehouse
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 64, the nays are 30.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
VOTE ON MOTION TO CONCUR
The question is on agreeing to the
motion to concur.
Mr. ROUNDS. Madam President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 71,
nays 23, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 415 Leg.]
YEAS—71
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Cramer
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—23
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Carper
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Gillibrand
Hawley
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Risch
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Toomey
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, the Senate proceed
to executive session and resume consid-
eration of the Singhal nomination; fur-
ther, that at 1:45 p.m., the Senate pro-
ceed to vote on the confirmations of
the nominations under the previous
order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Anuraag Singhal, of Florida,
to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Florida.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 3104
Mr. SCHATZ. As if in legislative ses-
sion, I ask unanimous consent that the
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs be discharged
from the further consideration of S.
3104, the Federal Employee Parental
Leave Technical Correction Act, and
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration. I further ask that the
bill be considered read a third time and
passed and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. TOOMEY. Reserving the right to
object, let me explain what is going on
here.
My colleague from Hawaii has an
amendment that he would like to make
to the NDAA legislation that we passed
recently. It has been described by our
Democratic colleagues as a technical
correction.
Well, I have a technical correction
that I would like to have considered as
well. So I think we have a good solu-
tion where we can both get the tech-
nical corrections we would like. We
have been waiting on mine for 2 years,
but the good news is that we have
broad bipartisan support for mine.
Every Republican Senator supports it,
and 13 Democrats are cosponsors of my
legislation to make this technical cor-
rection. If my math is right, that
means 66 Senators support doing this.
There is huge bipartisan support in the
House. So I would say let’s fix both
problems. The fix that I have in mind
is to fix a drafting error from our tax
reform bill from 2 years ago, and spe-
cifically, it would be to restore the
ability of people who make leasehold
improvements to fully expense that at
the time it occurs.
That was always the intent. Nobody
disputes that that was the intent, but
because of a drafting error, when some-
one makes a leasehold improvement,
not only are they unable to expense it
in the year in which it incurs, but they
have to depreciate it over 39 years, the
exact opposite of our intention. This is
a huge problem for restaurants and re-
tailers generally, and every one of our
States has how many retailers, how
many restaurants that are adversely
affected today by this technical error,
and it is having an economic impact.
This category of business investment
is the only category that has declined
over the last year. It was down almost
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.026 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7187
December 19, 2019
4 percent in the third quarter. That is
because of the adverse tax treatment.
That is not good for any of us. It is not
good for the United States. It is not
good for our States. In the omnibus bill
that we just passed, we had all kinds of
tax provisions—$427 billion, actually,
worth of tax provisions announced at 2
in the morning on Tuesday, by the
way.
It has things, including a resurrec-
tion of a special tax rule that was sup-
posed to die in 2017. We are going to
send checks to people for what they did
in 2018, which will have no impact
whatsoever, obviously, on changing in-
centives since it is the past. We did
that. We reversed a deal that was
struck in 2015 to phase out expensive
renewable energy credits. We made two
changes to the tax reform of 2017, but
we weren’t able to include the tech-
nical fix that 66 Senators want that
would cost zero.
What we were told by our Democratic
colleagues is that, if you want to do
that, there is a price you have to pay.
The price would be tens of billions of
dollars of increases in refundable tax
credits. That is checks being sent to
people who don’t pay taxes. Ranking
Member of the Finance Committee,
Senator WYDEN, said just this week:
‘‘Democrats have long said the Repub-
licans need to negotiate on broader
issues if they want to fix all the mis-
takes in their tax giveaway.’’ In other
words, there has to be a price.
Well, if I were adopting the approach
of my Democratic colleagues—and
when my colleague from Hawaii comes
down and makes this request—I could
say, Well, you need to come up with $50
billion worth of Republican priorities,
maybe $50 billion worth of capital gain
tax cuts, or $50 billion in reduction in
some kind of mandatory spending or
something. That is what I would do if I
were taking the exact same approach
that our Democratic colleagues took.
I am not going to do that. I am going
to suggest that we both get what we
are after here, and the American people
get the benefit. Here is what I am
going to do. I am going to modify the
unanimous consent request. The way I
am going to do that is to take the bill
advocated by the Senator from Hawaii,
drop it into a legislative vehicle, add
the technical fix that I and 66 Senators
support—and, by the way, 297 House
Members have cosponsored the com-
panion legislation, including 145 Demo-
crat House Members—I am going to put
them together in an otherwise empty
legislative vehicle so that we can do
both. When we pass it here in the Sen-
ate by unanimous consent in just a mo-
ment, if we do, then the House would
virtually be assured of passage, since
297 House Members have cosponsored
this legislation.
Mr. President, my suggestion is we
modify this unanimous consent request
so that the Senator from Hawaii gets
the provision that he wants and I get
the provision that 66 Senators want.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H.R. 748
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Senator modify his re-
quest so that the Senate proceed to the
immediate consideration of Calendar
No. 157, H.R. 748. I further ask unani-
mous consent that the Toomey amend-
ment at the desk be considered and
agreed to, the bill, as amended, be con-
sidered read a third time and passed,
and that the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Does the
Senator so modify his request?
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, reserv-
ing the right to object.
Let’s get clear about what is hap-
pening here. The first thing is we did
something momentous as a group. We,
on a bipartisan basis, decided to pro-
vide paid parental leave of 12 weeks for
the Federal workforce—2.1 million Fed-
eral workers—so that individuals who
are new parents don’t have to make
that impossible choice between receiv-
ing a paycheck and being a new dad or
a new mom. Now, this is catching us up
with the rest of the world. The rest of
the industrialized world understands
that this isn’t just a humane thing to
do for families. This is the right way to
manage the workforce because you get
higher productivity; you get better mo-
rale; and you get lower turnover. This
is a smart thing to do.
There were 2.1 million people covered
by this momentous change of Federal
policy agreed upon over the last 48
hours on a bipartisan basis. There was
a technical problem, and so the fol-
lowing Federal employees are not
going to be covered unless we make
this technical fix: employees of the DC
courts, public defenders, Presidential
appointees, FAA, and CSA employees,
and article I judges. Everybody else is
going to get 12 weeks of paid parental
leave, except for these people. We can
solve that today.
That is what my unanimous consent
request is all about. What the Senator
from Pennsylvania has decided to do is
take a hostage and say, These are the
only Federal employees who are not
going to get this benefit because of a
technical and drafting error because I
didn’t get something totally unrelated
that has to do with a tax bill that was
passed on purely partisan lines in a
hurry, written primarily by lobbyists
in the middle of the night.
Now, I do not mind entertaining a
change to the Tax Code to deal with
this question of how you expense the
renovation of restaurants and retail
operations, but I think Senator WYDEN
is exactly right. I guess the Senator
from Pennsylvania thought this was a
talking point on the Republican side.
Heaven forbid if there should be a nego-
tiation. Heaven forbid something that
is as important to the Republicans that
is as a result of their screw-up and
would cost tens of billions of dollars
would not be given away for free.
The argument being made is, hey,
technical for technical. This is an ac-
tual technical fix. This is a bill we just
enacted in the last 48 hours. I am not
even sure if the President has signed it
yet, but it is about to be enacted into
law, and nobody is arguing that we
should not cover some small portion of
the Federal workforce.
Nobody is arguing that was the legis-
lative intent. Nobody is arguing that is
public policy. What the Senator from
Pennsylvania is saying, If I don’t get
my thing, then these people don’t get
the help that they deserve. These peo-
ple, by happenstance of a drafting
error, don’t get paid parental leave.
Now, this has human consequences.
I object to the Senator’s modification
of my unanimous consent request, and
I am deeply disappointed that we can’t
fix this simple thing. I am happy to
work with the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania on a quick fix. I think we will get
there at some point next year, but this
has to be part of a broader bipartisan
deal, and he knows that.
This is going to cost tens of billions
of dollars, and no one gives tens of bil-
lions of dollars for nothing. Everything
of that magnitude has to be negotiated
on a bipartisan, bicameral basis. That
is not what he is trying to do. He is
trying to say because we made a tech-
nical error that was monumentally
wrong and, as a result of the flawed
process, why don’t we trade technical
fixes. This is a relatively small tech-
nical fix, and he wants to trade it for a
massive technical fix that is now 2
years old.
The only thing I would say is this
may be small in the context of how we
operate in the U.S. Senate. It is not
small if you work for the FAA and you
are a new dad. It is not small if you are
an article I judge and you are a new
mom. It is not small for these people
who deserve paid parental leave like
every other Federal employee will get
soon.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard to the modification.
Is there an objection to the original
request?
The Senator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I am
kind of shocked by what I just heard,
that I am characterized as taking a
hostage. Let’s just be very clear. I am
the Senator on the floor who is pro-
posing that both Senators get their
way, that the outcome works for both
sides. This is a Democratic priority.
Some Republicans support it; some
don’t. It is a Democratic priority on a
mistake that was made, and I am sug-
gesting let’s fix it.
Let’s take the opportunity to also fix
something that 66 Senators have sup-
ported. They cosponsored it. There is
even broader support—much broader in
the House where it is massive. I do not
know what is more reasonable than a
very broadly bipartisan technical fix
that scores at zero and helps every sin-
gle community in America and tying
that with an opportunity to do some-
thing that is a very high priority for
my colleague from Hawaii.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.029 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7188 December 19, 2019
Since my colleague from Hawaii re-
fuses to allow us both to be able to ac-
complish this, I am going to have to
hope that we can do it another time,
and I will object to his request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard.
The Senator from Oklahoma.
DECEMBER 19
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, on an-
other subject, even though I am very
close to this subject in that I chaired
the Armed Services Committee, and
that is where all of this really began, I
do want to mention one thing about
what happened this morning. I think
our leader over here, Mr. MCCONNELL,
did a superb job. He made it very clear
on the impeachment that took place
last night. It is something that has not
happened before. It is the first time it
has happened, in that there is no im-
peachable offense, and it is nonethe-
less, I think, all driven by hatred.
When you stop to think, here it is right
before Christmas, and the hatred that
is driving that, it is wrong.
I want to mention something that is
significant, that you haven’t thought
of, I say to the Presiding Officer. That
is, this 153rd day of the year is very sig-
nificant. That is December 19. People
have not stopped to realize the signifi-
cant things that have happened on De-
cember 19 throughout our history and
the history of the world, going all the
way back to December 19, at 11:54,
Henry II became King of England. We
haven’t really thought about the fact
what does that mean to us today, but
we will before long.
In 1843, December 19, again, Charles
Dickens wrote ‘‘A Christmas Carol.’’ It
is the most watched, listened to, and
sung event every Christmas.
In 1932, December 19, the British
Broadcasting Corporation, the BBC,
began transmitting overseas. That was
the beginning of a whole new world of
knowledge and understanding.
In 1950, December 19, NATO named
General Dwight D. Eisenhower as su-
preme commander of the Western Eu-
ropean defense forces.
Then in 1972, December 19, Apollo 17,
the last of the Apollo moon landings
returned to earth.
December 19 of 1984—I remember this
well because I was in Hong Kong when
this happened—that was when China
signed an accord returning Hong Kong
to the Chinese sovereignty. A lot of
people thought it was good at the time
to accept people from Hong Kong. I was
there, and look what has happened now
after all these years. I would have to
say that hysteria has continued to this
day.
Then, in 1998, December 19, the U.S
President Bill Clinton was impeached.
I was there at that one, too. We have
something to compare it with now, but
that was December 19, 1998.
The event that is more significant by
a landslide is what happened on Decem-
ber 19, 1959. On December 19, 1959, my
wife Kay and I got married. That
makes this the 60th anniversary of our
wedding. Just look at all the beauty
that has followed us, 20 kids and
grandkids. All of that in that 60-year
period of time.
What I want to say is the beautiful
life that we are still having together—
and I would like to say at this point
that Kay, after 60 years, is still loving,
and I wish you a happy anniversary;
and to everyone out there as you cele-
brate the birth of Jesus, Merry Christ-
mas, and God bless you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
NOMINATION OF STEPHANIE DAWKINS DAVIS
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I rise
today in support of Judge Stephanie
Dawkins Davis for the U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Michi-
gan.
I had the honor of introducing Judge
Dawkins Davis at the Senate Judiciary
Committee hearing more than 6
months ago. As I told the members of
the committee, Judge Dawkins Davis is
a highly respected member of the
Michigan legal community, and she
will serve our State well as a district
court judge.
Judge Dawkins Davis has been an ex-
emplary public servant who has worked
hard and honorably to serve the people
of Michigan. She has earned the re-
spect of colleagues across the State
and has garnered numerous awards
throughout her career.
She began her career as a civil de-
fense attorney at Dickinson Wright
and later joined the Office of the U.S.
Attorney for the Eastern District of
Michigan, prosecuting cases at both
the trial and appellate levels. She also
spent time as a deputy unit chief of the
Controlled Substances Unit and as a
high intensity drug trafficking area li-
aison.
Her successful work led to her ap-
pointment as executive assistant U.S.
attorney, and after that, she became a
magistrate judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict and was selected to serve at the
Flint Federal courthouse.
Judge Dawkins Davis is a qualified
jurist. The American Bar Association
unanimously rated her as ‘‘well quali-
fied.’’ She was also the first African-
American woman nominated by Presi-
dent Trump for a Federal judgeship.
I am proud to recognize Judge
Dawkins Davis for her many accom-
plishments and for the diverse voice
and perspective she will bring to the
bench.
This seat has been vacant since Octo-
ber 26, 2016; that is more than 3 years.
It is past time that the Senate consider
Judge Dawkins Davis’s nomination,
and I am glad it is finally happening
today.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON SINGHAL NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Singhal nomination?
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 76,
nays 17, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 416 Ex.]
YEAS—76
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Wicker
Young
NAYS—17
Baldwin
Bennet
Cantwell
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Markey
Merkley
Murray
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Van Hollen
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Roberts
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
just cut off a Member of our own side
because they didn’t get here in time.
That is to underscore that by popular
demand, everybody wants these times
to be kept, and that is what we intend
to do.
I ask unanimous consent that the
votes in this series be 10 minutes in
length.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.030 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7189
December 19, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Karen Spencer
Marston, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Marston nomination?
Mrs. MURRAY. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—- yeas 87,
nays 6, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 417 Ex.]
YEAS—- 87
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—- 6
Gillibrand
Markey
Merkley
Schumer
Smith
Wyden
NOT VOTING—- 7
Booker
Burr
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Daniel Mack Traynor, of North Da-
kota, to be United States District
Judge for the District of North Dakota.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Traynor nomination?
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from Virginia (Mr. WARNER), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 51,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 418 Ex.]
YEAS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—41
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Burr
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warner
Warren P
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the Dishman nomina-
tion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Jodi W.
Dishman, of Oklahoma, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of Oklahoma.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Dishman nomination?
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from Virginia (Mr. WARNER), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 75,
nays 17, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 419 Ex.]
YEAS—75
Alexander
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—17
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Cantwell
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Van Hollen
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Burr
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warner
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the Gallagher nomi-
nation.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination John M. Galla-
gher, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Gallagher nomination?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.033 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7190 December 19, 2019
Mrs. MURRAY. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from Virginia (Mr. WARNER), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote or change their vote?
The result was announced—yeas 83,
nays 9, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 420 Ex.]
YEAS—83
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—9
Bennet
Cantwell
Gillibrand
Markey
Merkley
Murray
Schumer
Stabenow
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Burr
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warner
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the Jones nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Bernard Maurice Jones II, of
Oklahoma, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Okla-
homa.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Jones nomination?
Mrs. MURRAY. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 91,
nays 3, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 421 Ex.]
YEAS—91
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—3
Gillibrand Markey Schumer
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). The clerk will report the next
nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of Mary Kay Vyskocil,
of New York, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of
New York.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Vyskocil nomination?
Mrs. MURRAY. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Mr. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Mr.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 91,
nays 3, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 422 Ex.]
YEAS—91
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—3
Gillibrand Heinrich Markey
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Kea Whetzal Riggs, of New
Mexico, to be United States District
Judge for the District of New Mexico.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Riggs nomination?
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Masachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.036 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7191
December 19, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 94,
nays 0, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 423 Ex.]
YEAS—94
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NOT VOTING—6
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENTS—EXECUTIVE
CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the clo-
ture motion with respect to Executive
Calendar No. 550 be withdrawn.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I further ask
unanimous consent that following dis-
position of the Davis nomination, the
Senate resume consideration of the
Biegun nomination and vote on con-
firmation of the nomination; finally, if
confirmed, the motions to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table and the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that following
the disposition of the Biegun nomina-
tion, the Senate proceed to legislative
session and resume consideration of
the House message to accompany H.R.
1158; that if cloture is invoked on the
motion to concur in the House amend-
ment to the Senate amendment to H.R.
1158, the postcloture time be expired,
the other pending motions and amend-
ments be withdrawn, and the Senate
vote on adoption of the motion to con-
cur in the House amendment to the
Senate amendment to H.R. 1158 with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Robert J. Colville, of Penn-
sylvania, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Penn-
sylvania.
Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) and the
Senator from Kentucky (Mr. PAUL).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 66,
nays 27, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 424 Ex.]
YEAS—66
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Crapo
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hyde-Smith
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—27
Barrasso
Blackburn
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cotton
Cramer
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Hawley
Hoeven
Inhofe
Lankford
Lee
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
NOT VOTING—7
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Lewis J.
Liman, of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern
District of New York.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Liman nomination?
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I ask
for yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) and the
Senator from Kentucky (Mr. PAUL).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 64,
nays 29, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 425 Ex.]
YEAS—64
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hyde-Smith
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—29
Barrasso
Blackburn
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Hawley
Hoeven
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Sullivan
Thune
NOT VOTING—7
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Gary Richard Brown, of New York, to
be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of New York.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Brown nomination?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:11 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.019 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7192 December 19, 2019
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Stephanie Dawkins Davis, of Michigan,
to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Michigan.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Dawkins Davis nomina-
tion?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Stephen E. Biegun, of Michigan, to be
Deputy Secretary of State.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Biegun nomination?
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) and the
Senator from Kentucky (Mr. PAUL).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 90,
nays 3, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 426 Ex.]
YEAS—90
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—3
Gillibrand Hirono Markey
NOT VOTING—7
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motions to re-
consider are considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
DHS CYBER INCIDENT RESPONSE
TEAMS ACT OF 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will now resume legislative session.
The Senate resumed consideration of
the House message to H.R. 1158, a bill
to authorize cyber incident response
teams at the Department of Homeland
Security, and for other purposes.
Pending:
McConnell motion to concur in the
amendment of the House to the amend-
ment of the Senate to the bill.
McConnell motion to concur in the
amendment of the House to the amend-
ment of the Senate to the bill, with
McConnell Amendment No. 1263 (to the
House amendment to the Senate
amendment), to change the enactment
date.
McConnell Amendment No. 1264 (to
Amendment No. 1263), of a perfecting
nature.
McConnell motion to refer the mes-
sage of the House on the bill to the
Committee on Appropriations, with in-
structions, McConnell Amendment No.
1265, to change the enactment date.
McConnell Amendment No. 1266 (the
instructions (Amendment No. 1265) of
the motion to refer), of a perfecting na-
ture.
McConnell Amendment No. 1267 (to
Amendment No. 1266), of a perfecting
nature.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in ac-
cordance with the provisions of rule
XXII of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, do hereby move to bring to a close
debate on the motion to concur in the
House amendment to the Senate
amendment to H.R. 1158, a bill to au-
thorize cyber incident response teams
at the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, and for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Susan M. Collins,
Richard Burr, David Perdue, Pat Rob-
erts, John Cornyn, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, John Thune, John Boozman, Rob
Portman, Richard C. Shelby, Roy
Blunt, Jerry Moran, John Hoeven,
Roger F. Wicker, Thom Tillis, Lisa
Murkowski.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that the debate on the motion
to concur in the House amendment to
the Senate amendment to H.R. 1158, a
bill (H.R. 1158) entitled ‘‘An Act to au-
thorize cyber incident response teams
at the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, and for other purposes,’’ shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) and the
Senator from Kentucky (Mr. PAUL).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote or change their vote?
The result was announced—yeas 77,
nays 16, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 427 Leg.]
YEAS—77
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—16
Blackburn
Braun
Carper
Cassidy
Cruz
Ernst
Gillibrand
Hawley
Johnson
Lee
Markey
Merkley
Schumer
Toomey
Van Hollen
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 77, the nays are 16.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
Under the previous order, cloture
having been invoked on the motion to
concur, the other pending motions are
withdrawn.
VOTE ON MOTION TO CONCUR
The question occurs on agreeing to
the motion to concur.
Ms. ERNST. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.042 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7193
December 19, 2019
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR), the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON),
and the Senator from Kentucky (Mr.
PAUL).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The result was announced—yeas 81,
nays 11, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 428 Leg.]
YEAS—81
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—11
Braun
Carper
Cruz
Gillibrand
Hawley
Lee
Markey
Merkley
Schumer
Van Hollen
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Burr
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Sanders
Warren
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
f
DIRECTING THE CLERK OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TO MAKE A CORRECTION IN THE
ENROLLMENT OF H.R. 1158
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H. Con. Res. 81, which was re-
ceived from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 81)
directing the Clerk of the House of Rep-
resentatives to make a correction in the en-
rollment of H.R. 1158.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the concur-
rent resolution be agreed to and the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (H. Con.
Res. 81) was agreed to.
f
DIRECTING THE CLERK OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TO MAKE A CORRECTION IN THE
ENROLLMENT OF H.R. 1865
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H. Con. Res. 82, which was re-
ceived from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 82)
directing the clerk of the House of Rep-
resentatives to make a correction in the en-
rollment of H.R. 1865.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
an objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent the concurrent res-
olution be agreed to and the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (H. Con.
Res. 82) was agreed to.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent the Senate be in a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO MIKE RUST
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, it is
with gratitude that I pay tribute today
to Mike Rust, a leading advocate for
positive healthcare outcomes in Ken-
tucky. With a long list of accomplish-
ments and two dozen years as president
of the Kentucky Hospital Association,
Mike has certainly earned a relaxing
and enjoyable retirement. Commu-
nities throughout our Commonwealth
have benefited from Mike’s leadership,
and I would like to join them today in
honoring his impressive career.
Before coming to Kentucky, Mike
worked in senior positions at hospitals
in West Virginia and with the Florida
Hospital Association. Taking the im-
pressive skills he developed throughout
his career, Mike joined the KHA in 1996
as its third president. Mike and his
team support the work of each and
every one of Kentucky’s 120-plus hos-
pitals to enhance healthcare services in
both rural and urban communities
across the Commonwealth.
In addition to its advocacy work, the
KHA under Mike’s leadership offers
critical services to its membership, in-
cluding research, education, and sup-
port for patient safety and quality
care. Patients and hospitals in our
State will continue to benefit from
Mike’s great work for many years to
come. Through his achievements on be-
half of Kentucky’s hospitals and their
patients, Mike has earned the respect
of his peers in our Commonwealth and
across the Nation.
On a personal note, I have enjoyed
partnering with Mike in my work in
the Senate to support Kentucky fami-
lies and communities. Just recently,
the KHA supported my effort to raise
the nationwide minimum purchase age
for tobacco products from 18 to 21. His
counsel was also particularly beneficial
in our fight against the passage of
Obamacare, which the KHA rightly op-
posed. My staff and I will miss Mike’s
collaboration on many important Ken-
tucky priorities, but I am confident the
organization he dedicated so much of
his life to will continue building upon
his legacy.
As Mike reaches this milestone, I
would like to thank him for his leader-
ship on behalf of hospitals and families
across the Commonwealth. I share my
best wishes with Mike and his family
for many years of relaxation and enjoy-
ment together. Finally, I hope my Sen-
ate colleagues will join me in con-
gratulating Mike Rust for a long career
of distinguished advocacy and service
to Kentucky.
f
TRIBUTE TO COACH SCOTT
SATTERFIELD
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, it
was a year ago this month that my
alma mater, the University of Louis-
ville, hired Scott Satterfield as its new
football coach. The Cardinals con-
vinced Scott to leave his head coaching
job at Appalachian State University
and take over Louisville’s program.
Today, it is a real pleasure for me to
celebrate the good decision he made
and to congratulate Coach Scott
Satterfield for earning the title of
‘‘2019 Atlantic Coast Conference Foot-
ball Coach of the Year.’’
When he first walked into Louis-
ville’s locker room as head coach,
Scott faced a daunting task. The Car-
dinals ended their previous season with
only two wins, leaving the team dis-
appointed and the fans less than enthu-
siastic. Critics predicted another lack-
luster year for the Cardinals, and a pre-
season poll anticipated a repeat last-
place finish in the division.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.046 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7194 December 19, 2019
Well, anyone who made those pre-
dictions clearly didn’t know Scott.
They didn’t understand the effect he
could have on UofL’s program and its
student-athletes in hardly any time at
all. Now, 1 year into the Satterfield-
era, the University of Louisville Car-
dinals have won seven games, placed
second in their division, and the team
is on the way to the Music City Bowl.
And when they take the field in Nash-
ville, the Cardinals will be led by their
award-winning and expectations-beat-
ing head coach.
It is a great privilege for a longtime
Cards fan like myself to pay tribute to
Coach Satterfield and his many accom-
plishments. He set out to change the
program’s culture, to restore the
team’s confidence, and to unite the
players, coaches, and fans together
around a shared purpose. Overcoming a
challenging schedule took vision and
grit, which are qualities Scott pos-
sesses in great measure.
Coach Satterfield has made fall Sat-
urdays—or should I say ‘‘Satterdays’’—
in Louisville a whole lot of fun. Ignit-
ing an explosive offense, including 2019
All-ACC first team honorees Tutu
Atwell and Mekhi Becton, the Car-
dinals averaged more than 440 yards
per game. The defense stepped up too—
often when it mattered most—and
helped add a couple of quality wins to
the Cardinals’ resume.
Scott began this season determined
to prove that this team could live up to
its greatest potential. Along with Lou-
isville’s other top-notch coaches, he is
helping to restore UofL’s pride. And
after only a single season, he is already
making history. As the first UofL
coach to ever be named ‘‘ACC Coach of
the Year,’’ Scott has shown that he not
only has what it takes to compete at
the highest levels of college football
but that he is also ready to lead his
team, our university, and the city to
victory.
So I would like to congratulate
Coach Scott Satterfield for receiving
this well-deserved honor and to thank
him for providing some extraordinary
football to watch this season. I hope
my Senate colleagues will join me in
paying tribute to Scott as he prepares
to finish strong in Nashville at the end
of the month. I for one, look forward to
cheering on my Cards.
f
TRIBUTE TO NICOLAAS BUDDE
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I rise to
pay tribute to a longtime member of
my staff, Nicolaas Budde, who is de-
parting my office after 15 years of serv-
ice.
Nic has been my systems adminis-
trator, responsible for keeping all of
the technology in my personal and
leadership Senate offices here in Wash-
ington and in our three State offices in
good working order, among many other
things.
Needless to say, a key part of the job
description for a systems adminis-
trator is the ability to be extremely
patient with those of us who may not
be as up to speed on the technology
available to us. And I would say that
there are very few people who are as
patient and kind as Nic.
From fixing a recalcitrant printer to
setting up a new, high-tech studio for
the Senate Republican conference, Nic
always does what can often be frus-
trating and time-consuming work with
a cheerful smile and a reassuring word.
He comes to work every single day
with a sunny and enthusiastic attitude,
and he doesn’t accept anything less
than the best when it comes to serving
South Dakotans and our fellow Ameri-
cans.
Nic grew up in Harrisburg, SD, and
worked on both of my Senate cam-
paigns as systems administrator while
he was in college at Dakota State Uni-
versity in Madison, SD. For those who
may not know, Dakota State Univer-
sity is the ‘‘high-tech’’ college in our
State, and students who graduate from
DSU often go on to prestigious jobs at
technology companies and the like. Nic
could have done any of those jobs, but
instead he chose to dedicate his career
to serving here in the Senate.
Nic is very involved in the Senate
community, often vetting new tech-
nologies and participating in pilot
projects and working groups regarding
the use of technology in the Senate.
Nic manages my official website, and
during his tenure the site has earned
several Mouse Awards from the non-
partisan Congressional Management
Foundation, including a Gold Mouse
Award. Our website is a critical part of
our efforts to keep constituents in-
formed about the work we do on their
behalf, and I am grateful to Nic for all
the work he has done to make our site
a helpful resource for South Dakotans.
Before I came to my current leader-
ship position as majority whip, I was
head of the Senate Republican Con-
ference, and Nic was a key part of the
conference team. While we were there,
Nic managed a complex and highly
technical project to upgrade the tech-
nological infrastructure of the office,
an important but often unsung part of
our ability to get our conference’s mes-
sage out to the nation.
Nic is currently managing a simi-
larly difficult project at the Senate Re-
publican Conference, setting up a new,
high-tech studio that will greatly ex-
pand our technological and commu-
nications capabilities in that office.
This is incredibly important work, and
Nic has done all of this while at the
same time putting out fires in my whip
office and in the personal office when-
ever the phones go down or someone’s
email isn’t working—and always with a
smile and a great deal of patience.
I want to thank Nic for his service
and also thank his wife Jackie and his
children, Ella and Frederick, for let-
ting us have their husband and dad for
these many years.
Thankfully, Nic won’t be going far.
He will just be down the hall con-
tinuing his work at the Senate Repub-
lican Conference, where all of my col-
leagues will get the benefit of his ex-
pertise.
Nic, thank you again for your many
years of service, your cheerfulness,
your kindness, your hard work, and
most importantly, your patience.
We wish you the very best for the fu-
ture.
f
RECOGNIZING WGN-TV
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, we find
ourselves in the usual December dol-
drums. We are somewhere between the
end of the baseball season and the be-
ginning of spring training. It is a time
to reflect and a time to dream.
A familiar offseason refrain from
many die-hard Chicago Cubs fans is,
‘‘Wait ‘til next year’’ or ‘‘next season
will be different.’’ Well, next season
will indeed be different as Cubs fans
will not, in the immortal words of
Steve Goodman, be able to ‘‘catch it all
on WGN.’’ Chicago Cubs baseball is
moving to the new Marquee Sports
Network. I want to take a moment to
honor WGN’s long-standing commit-
ment to unsurpassed sports coverage
and their historic partnership with the
Cubs.
I think it is safe to say that, for the
most part, Cubs fans are an optimistic
bunch. We have endured some very
tough seasons and the longest cham-
pionship drought in Major League
Baseball. Of course, in 2016, the Cubs
rewarded their fans with a World Series
championship, the first in more than a
century. Throughout much of that cen-
tury, fans could count on watching
their favorite team on ‘‘Chicago’s Very
Own,’’ WGN-TV. In fact, for 72 years,
WGN helped spread the thrills of Cubs
baseball through player milestones, in-
cluding Mr. Cub Ernie Banks’ 500th
homerun, pennant races, October base-
ball, and more than a few lean years.
The Cubs game on April 23, 1948,
wasn’t a particularly memorable one.
They lost 1–0 to the rival St. Louis Car-
dinals. History was made not on the
field but in the broadcast booth as
WGN-TV aired its first Cubs game and
set in motion the longest baseball-TV
relationship in baseball history. Since
then, WGN-TV has aired 7,115 Cubs
games, reaching fans across the coun-
try and around the globe.
It was a great risk for the Cubs to
start airing all their games on tele-
vision. What if people stopped going to
games and only watched from home?
After all, WGN-TV made it feel like
you were at the game. The Zoomar lens
brought long shots and close-ups into
focus as a television cameraman swung
quickly from views of the whole dia-
mond to close-ups of batting, pitching,
and action in the bullpen. But the gam-
ble was worth it. The Cubs drew 1.2
million fans to Wrigley Field in 1948,
despite losing 90 games that season.
It became a tradition for kids to
come home after school to watch the
Cubs on WGN. Hall of famers Ernie
Banks, Billy Williams, Ron Santo,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.056 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7195
December 19, 2019
Fergie Jenkins, Andre Dawson, Ryne
Sandberg, and a host of Cubs stars be-
came household names to fans across
the country. Many a big leaguer today
will tell stories about watching the
Cubs on WGN-TV and dreaming of
playing at Wrigley Field.
Generations of fans grew up knowing
the sights and sounds of WGN-TV’s
Jack Brickhouse yelling, ‘‘Hey-hey!’’
or Harry Caray’s ‘‘Holy cow!’’ and his
famous rendition of ‘‘Take Me Out to
the Ball Game.’’ Both of these hall of
famers informed, entertained, and
thrilled us for decades with their play-
by-play. They dazzled in the booth even
when the action on the field fell a bit
short. WGN legendary producer/direc-
tor Arne Harris was behind the scenes
from the 1960s through 2001, bringing us
baseball history from Wrigley Field. A
distinguished list of announcers also
graced the WGN-TV broadcast booth
including Milo Hamilton, Lou
Boudreau, Vince Lloyd, and Lloyd
Pettit. Today, Len Kasper and Jim
Deshaies faithfully continue that tradi-
tion and are our trusted guides to Cubs
baseball. They will continue, along
with WGN-TV director of production
and author Bob Vorwald, on the new
network in 2020.
I want to take this opportunity to
thank WGN-TV president general man-
ager Paul Rennie and all the good peo-
ple at WGN who brought us the sights
and sounds of the Cubs and the Friend-
ly Confines for 72 years.
In addition to those already men-
tioned, we acknowledge longtime
sports editor Jack Rosenberg, who rou-
tinely pulled off the impossible in sup-
port of the telecast; directors Chris Er-
skine, Jack Jacobson, Bill Lotzer, Skip
Ellison, and Marc Brady; and
videographer Joe Pausback. My friend,
Shaun Sheehan, was WGN’s ambas-
sador to Washington and to the Con-
gress for nearly three decades. And
countless assistant directors, technical
directors, camera operators, audio en-
gineers, video shaders, and sales, busi-
ness, and station executives, including
Jim Tianis, Frank Leone, Mike Aiello,
Scott Jones, Steve Casey, Mike Clay,
Mark Stencel, Marty Wilke, Errol Ger-
ber, Marissa Rudman, Jake Fendley,
Mark Boe, Jeff Shaw, Ward Quaal, Joe
Loughlin, Dennis FitzSimons, Peter
Walker, John Vitanovec, Tom
Ehlmann, Greg Easterly, Jim Dowdle,
Sheldon Cooper, Jim Zerwekh, Bob
Ramsey, Tom Boyd, and Terry
‘‘Whitey’’ Pearson truly made Cubs
baseball on WGN-TV special.
As Bob Vorwald said just before the
final games on WGN, ‘‘We want to tip
our hat to Jack Brickhouse and Harry
Caray and all the people that have an-
nounced and the thousands of men and
women that have worked on the games.
But, the best way to do that is by hav-
ing a great telecast. That’s always
been our mission, and it’s important
that we uphold that to the very end.’’
As WGN-TV and all the people who
made Chicago Cubs baseball telecasts
possible sign off, let me join the count-
less fans in thanking them for creating
an American standard of broadcasting
excellence.
f
BUDGET ENFORCEMENT LEVELS
FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, section 251
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985, BBEDCA,
establishes statutory limits on discre-
tionary spending and allows for various
adjustments to those limits. In addi-
tion, sections 302 and 314(a) of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974 allow the
chairman of the Budget Committee to
establish and make revisions to alloca-
tions, aggregates, and levels consistent
with those adjustments.
The Senate will soon consider two
measures: the House amendment to the
Senate amendment to H.R. 1158, the
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020,
and the House amendment to the Sen-
ate amendment to H.R. 1865, the Fur-
ther Consolidated Appropriations Act,
2020. These measures contain spending
that qualifies for cap adjustments
under current law.
The Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2020 includes multiple instances of
cap adjustment eligible spending. The
measure includes $70,855 million in
spending designated as being for over-
seas contingency operations, OCO,
funding pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of BBEDCA. This budget
authority, all of which falls into the re-
vised security category, would result in
$40,336 million in outlays in fiscal year
2020. The measure further includes
$17,503 million in spending designated
for disaster relief pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(D) of BBEDCA. This budget
authority, all of which falls into the re-
vised nonsecurity category, would re-
sult in $984 million in outlays. The
measure also includes $1,771 million in
revised security category budget au-
thority that is designated as an emer-
gency pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of BBEDCA. CBO esti-
mates that this budget authority, as
well as other emergency designated
changes, would increase net outlays by
$914 million this fiscal year.
The Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2020, also includes $2,500 million in
nonsecurity budget authority that is
designated as being for the periodic
U.S. Census pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(G) of BBEDCA. CBO estimates
that this budget authority will result
in $1,800 million in outlays in fiscal
year 2020. Earlier this year, I made an
adjustment to accommodate funding in
this amount for this purpose and reaf-
firm those funds for use for this meas-
ure.
The Further Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2020 also includes multiple
instances of cap adjustment eligible
spending. The measure includes $8,645
million in spending designated as being
for OCO funding pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of BBEDCA. This budget
authority, $645 million of which falls
into the revised security category and
$8,000 million falls into the revised non-
security category, would result in
$2,327 million in outlays in fiscal year
2020. The measure includes $1,842 mil-
lion in spending designated for pro-
gram integrity pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(B), section 251(b)(2)(C), and
section 251(b)(2)(E) of BBEDCA. This
budget authority, all of which falls
into the revised nonsecurity category,
would result in $1,481 million in out-
lays. The measure also includes $6,764
million in revised nonsecurity category
budget authority that is designated as
an emergency pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of BBEDCA. CBO esti-
mates that this budget authority, as
well as other emergency designated
changes, would increase net outlays by
$1,705 million this fiscal year.
The Further Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2020 also includes $2,250 mil-
lion in nonsecurity discretionary budg-
et authority for wildfire suppression
operations pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(F) of BBEDCA. This budget
authority and its associated outlays of
$2,250 million qualify for an adjustment
under the law. Earlier this year, I made
an adjustment to accommodate fund-
ing in this amount for this purpose and
reaffirm those funds for use for this
measure. As such, I am revising the
budget authority and outlay alloca-
tions to the Committee on Appropria-
tions by increasing revised nonsecurity
budget authority by $27,880 million, re-
vised security budget authority by
$79,500 million, and general outlays by
$47,747 million in fiscal year 2020. Fur-
ther, I am increasing the budgetary ag-
gregate for fiscal year 2020 by $107,126
million in budget authority and $47,534
million in outlays.
I ask unanimous consent that this
notice and the accompanying tables,
which provide details about the adjust-
ment, be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
REVISION TO BUDGETARY AGGREGATES
(Pursuant to Sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974)
$s in millions 2020
Current Spending Aggregates:
Budget Authority ........................................... 3,708,996
Outlays .......................................................... 3,685,541
Adjustments:
Budget Authority ........................................... 107,126
Outlays .......................................................... 47,534
Revised Spending Aggregates:
Budget Authority ........................................... 3,816,122
Outlays .......................................................... 3,733,075
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.052 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7196 December 19, 2019
REVISION TO SPENDING ALLOCATION TO THE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
(Pursuant to Sections 302 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974)
$s in millions 2020
Current Allocation:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 666,500
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 626,258
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,368,429
Adjustments:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 79,500
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 27,880
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 47,747
Revised Allocation:
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 746,000
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 654,138
General Purpose Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,416,176
Memorandum: Detail of Adjustments Made
Above
OCO Program Integrity Disaster Relief Emergency Wildfire Suppression U.S. Census Total
Revised Security Discretionary Budget Au-
thority ..................................................... 71,500 0 0 8,000 0 0 79,500
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary
Budget Authority .................................... 8,000 1,842 17,503 535 0 0 27,880
General Purpose Outlays ............................ 42,663 1,481 984 2,619 0 0 47,747
JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS
Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I rise to
discuss the President’s nominees for
the Federal bench. I strongly believe
that women should be in charge of
their own healthcare decisions. Family
planning choices are deeply personal,
and women should be free to make the
choice that is right for them, their
family, faith, personal beliefs, or med-
ical needs. As States like Alabama,
Georgia, and others attempt to roll
back women’s access to reproductive
healthcare, it is more important than
ever that we work together to protect
this right.
Unfortunately, too many of Presi-
dent Trump’s nominees to the Federal
courts hold beliefs that fail to respect
long-settled precedent on women’s
healthcare. For example, the Senate
recently voted to confirm Sarah Pitlyk
to a Federal district court. As an attor-
ney, she defended Iowa’s unconstitu-
tional ban on abortions at 6 weeks.
Pitlyk has also worked to defend the
Trump administration’s Title X gag
rule, which prohibits healthcare pro-
viders who receive this critical funding
from discussing the full range of family
planning options with their patients.
And finally, she lacked any meaningful
trial experience. It is no wonder the
American Bar Association found that
she was unqualified to serve on the dis-
trict court.
Despite Roe v. Wade being the law of
the land, too many of President
Trump’s nominees have actively
sought to undermine the rights of
women to control their own reproduc-
tive health choices. Their amicus
briefs, legal writings, and arguments
demonstrate a hostility towards wom-
en’s rights that are incompatible with
the role of a Federal judge.
I will continue to evaluate President
Trump’s judicial nominees based on
their stances on women’s reproductive
health and remain committed to voting
for nominees who have a strong record
on upholding constitutionally pro-
tected reproductive healthcare rights.
Accordingly, had I been present in the
Senate, I would have voted against the
nominations of Michael Park to serve
on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, Dan Collins to the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
Peter Phipps to the U.S. Court of Ap-
peals for the Third Circuit, Wendy Wil-
liams Berger to the U.S. District Court
for the Middle District of Florida,
Brian Buescher to the U.S. District
Court for the District of Nebraska, Mi-
chael Liburdi to the U.S. District
Court for the District of Arizona, Sean
Jordan to the U.S. District Court for
the Eastern District of Texas, Brantley
Starr to the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Texas, Jeffrey
Vincent Brown to the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of
Texas, and William Shaw Stickman IV
to the U.S. District Court for the West-
ern District of Pennsylvania, Stephen
Menashi to serve on the Second Circuit
Court of Appeals and Lawrence Van-
Dyke to serve on the Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeals.
Moving forward, it is my hope that
the President will nominate individ-
uals who respect women’s healthcare
decisions.
f
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, after
visiting our southern border countless
times, most recently in August when I
toured the Mexican side of the border
with their deployed National Guard
units, I know that we face a dire situa-
tion that is only improving because of
the aggressive action taken by Presi-
dent Trump. As he and I both know,
more needs to be done. Securing our
border is vital to national security.
In our discussions with the Mexican
Government following my recent trip,
they expressed strong support for doing
work on their southern border to stem
the tide of illegal immigrants from
other nations in Central America. Ac-
cordingly, I am proud to introduce the
Mirador-Calakmul Basin Maya Secu-
rity & Conservation Partnership Act,
which will provide critical resources to
the region to supplement the efforts
made by the Government of Mexico to
secure its own southern border. These
resources will be critical because in-
creased insecurity and lack of eco-
nomic opportunity in this region are
drivers of emigration from Guatemala
and Mexico to the United States as
local communities face pressure to par-
ticipate in deforestation, logging, nar-
cotics trafficking and other illicit ac-
tivities. It is in the best interest for
the national security of the United
States to support political stability,
reduced migration, reduction of pov-
erty, and enhanced economic develop-
ment around the basin in Guatemala
and Mexico.
The Mirador Basin features beautiful
Mayan ruins with networks of pyra-
mids, palaces, and ancient cities that
many consider to be the eighth wonder
of the world, and I would agree. I used
to fly my plane over the Mirador Basin,
and I have seen the magnificent struc-
tures with my own eyes. My legislation
will support efforts made by the De-
partment of the Interior, the Depart-
ment of State, the Mexican Govern-
ment the Guatemalan Government and
various universities and research insti-
tutions to secure this region and en-
sure future generations are afforded
the same opportunity to see these mag-
nificent Mayan ruins.
One of the most important things we
can do to secure this region is support
the local communities surrounding the
Mirador Basin by providing economic
opportunity and ensuring that this
community receives direct economic
benefit. If the members of the local
community are able to find work in the
region, it will greatly reduce the incen-
tive to attempt the arduous journey to
illegally immigrate to the United
States.
Mr. President, it is critical that we
secure our southern border. Border se-
curity is national security. It is just
that simple. There are many proposals
targeting this issue, and I support
many of them—including building the
wall. This additional legislation is a
targeted approach, and I thank Sen-
ators UDALL and RISCH for joining me
in this initiative.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, on the
motion to invoke cloture on the House
amendment to the Senate Amendment
to H.R. 1158, the Consolidated Appro-
priations Act, vote No. 427, I had in-
tended to be recorded as voting no.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.027 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7197
December 19, 2019
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the Record.)
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President. I was ab-
sent, but had I been present, I would
have voted no on rollcall vote No. 401,
the motion to invoke cloture on Execu-
tive Calendar No. 382, Matthew Walden
McFarland, of Ohio, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern
District of Ohio.
Mr. President. I was absent, but had
I been present, I would have voted no
on rollcall Vote No. 402, the confirma-
tion of Executive Calendar No. 382,
Matthew Walden McFarland, of Ohio,
to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Ohio.
Mr. President. I was absent, but had
I been present, I would have voted no
on rollcall Vote No. 403, the motion to
invoke cloture on Executive Calendar
No. 465, Anuraag Singhal, of Florida, to
be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Florida.
Mr. President. I was absent, but had
I been present, I would have voted no
on rollcall Vote No. 404, the motion to
invoke cloture on Executive Calendar
No. 466, Karen Spencer Marston, of
Pennsylvania, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania.
Mr. President. I was absent, but had
I been present, I would have voted no
on rollcall Vote No. 405, the motion to
invoke cloture on Executive Calendar
No. 480, Daniel Mack Traynor, of North
Dakota, to be United States District
Judge for the District of North Dakota.
Mr. President. I was absent, but had
I been present, I would have voted no
on rollcall Vote No. 406, the motion to
invoke cloture on Executive Calendar
No. 481, Jodi W. Dishman, of Okla-
homa, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Okla-
homa.
Mr. President. I was absent, but had
I been present, I would have voted no
on rollcall Vote No. 407, the motion to
invoke cloture on Executive Calendar
No. 490, John M. Gallagher, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Penn-
sylvania.
Mr. President. I was absent, but had
I been present, I would have voted no
on rollcall Vote No. 408, the motion to
invoke cloture on Executive Calendar
No. 536, Bernard Maurice Jones II, of
Oklahoma, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Okla-
homa.
Mr. President. I was absent, but had
I been present, I would have voted no
on rollcall Vote No. 409, the motion to
invoke cloture on Executive Calendar
No. 354, Mary Kay Vyskocil, of New
York, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of New
York.
Mr. President. I was absent, but had
I been present, I would have voted yes
on rollcall Vote No. 410, the motion to
invoke cloture on Executive Calendar
No. 383, Kea Whetzal Riggs, of New
Mexico, to be United States District
Judge for the District of New Mexico.
Mr. President. I was absent, but had
I been present, I would have voted yes
rollcall Vote No. 412, the motion to in-
voke cloture on Executive Calendar No.
357, Stephanie Dawkins Davis, of
Michigan, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of
Michigan.∑
f
H.R. 1865
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President,
today the Senate passed H.R. 1865, one
of two appropriations packages needed
to fund the Federal Government for fis-
cal year 2020.
Eight appropriations bills are part of
this consolidated appropriations bill—
eight bills that fund programs which
impact every part of our lives—and I
am pleased that we have made several
strong steps to better serve the Amer-
ican people.
For Maryland and the Chesapeake
Bay, the bill provides a historic level of
funding for EPA’s Chesapeake Bay pro-
gram and continued funding for the
dredging needs of the Port of Balti-
more. In addition, the bill provides
funding for the Army Corps of Engi-
neers to resume oyster restoration
work in the bay. These are hard-fought
wins, and I appreciate the work of
those in the Maryland and Chesapeake
Bay delegations to help get this done.
After years of Republican opposition,
this bill finally funds critical gun vio-
lence research at the Centers for Dis-
ease Control. Gun violence is an epi-
demic, and we should be engaging our
best minds to find solutions to keep
the American people safe. I am also
pleased that the bill includes funding
for the CDC to research sexual abuse
prevention and for the Agency for
Healthcare Research Quality to sup-
port diagnostic error research—issues I
have worked on in the Appropriations
Committee. The bill also includes im-
portant increases for medical research
at the National Institutes of Health
and delivers funding to implement the
Childhood Cancer STAR Act.
H.R. 1865 includes a funding increase
for the Infant and Early Childhood
Mental Health Program, which helps
develop, maintain, or enhance infant
and early childhood mental health pro-
motion, intervention, and treatment
programs for children at risk of devel-
oping, showing early signs of, or having
been diagnosed with mental illness.
The bill also includes funding to con-
tinue the National Adoption Com-
petency Mental Health Training Initia-
tive, which helps child welfare and
mental health workers better under-
stand and address the mental health
needs of children, youth, and their fam-
ilies moving toward or having achieved
permanency through adoption or
guardianship.
I am also very pleased that the bill
continues the Federal funding commit-
ment to WMATA. I, along with Senator
CARDIN and our colleagues from Vir-
ginia have introduced a WMATA reau-
thorization bill that would authorize
an additional 10 years of Federal fund-
ing. WMATA is the Nation’s transit
system, and maintaining our Federal
support is essential for the local econ-
omy and for the people who live and
work here. Given the significant Fed-
eral ridership, it is incumbent on us to
ensure the Federal Government pay its
fair share.
The bill fully funds a housing mobil-
ity demonstration project that Senator
YOUNG and I have worked to develop. I
look forward to the results of the pro-
gram as we look to expand housing
vouchers and give families a safe and
stable place from which to build their
futures. The bill also funds the commu-
nity development block grant and
HOME Partnership Program, two cru-
cial economic development programs
that were eliminated in the President’s
budget.
I am pleased that the bill rejected a
number of the President’s cuts to edu-
cation and actually boosts funds for
afterschool and student support pro-
grams. It increases funding for title I
and IDEA, two foundational programs
that help students in underserved areas
and those with disabilities have the re-
sources they need to get a good edu-
cation. The bill expands access to early
education by increasing funds for the
child care and development block grant
and provides more K–12 wraparound
services with boosts to the Full Service
Community Schools and Promise
Neighborhoods Programs. The bill in-
creases the Pell grant and continues
funding for Senators to pay their in-
terns—an initiative I have worked
closely on with Senators MURPHY,
SCHATZ, COLLINS, and MURKOWSKI.
While the bill is mostly focused on
domestic policy, I appreciate the inclu-
sion of language I authored to hold
Saudi Arabia to the ‘‘gold standard’’
section 123 agreement as a condition
for Export-Import Bank financing for
U.S. nuclear exports. We should not be
transferring sensitive nuclear tech-
nology to Saudi Arabia without the es-
tablishment of strong nonproliferation
guardrails. I am also pleased that the
bill retains my provisions to sanction
foreign government officials respon-
sible for the detention of American
citizens and locally employed staff of
U.S. diplomatic missions, urges the In-
dian Government to reverse course in
Kashmir, bans the sale of arms to
Turkish President Erdogan’s body-
guards, and mandates comprehensive
oversight of the administration’s trav-
el ban and refugee resettlement poli-
cies. In addition, this legislation pro-
vides critical humanitarian and devel-
opment assistance for our partners and
allies around the world, despite Presi-
dent Trump’s repeated attempts to cut
the foreign assistance budget dramati-
cally.
Importantly, H.R. 1865 includes a 10-
year reauthorization of the Patient-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:11 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.038 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7198 December 19, 2019
Centered Outcomes Research Institute,
PCORI. When PCORI was first created,
there was broad agreement about the
critical need for comparative effective-
ness research, CER. The CER research
being done through PCORI is helping
to generate more personalized, more
reliable research that is directly rel-
evant to individual patients and doc-
tors. There are significant evidence
gaps about what medical treatments
and services are most clinically effec-
tive and for whom. We need more infor-
mation, and that information must
quickly get into the hands of patients
and providers so they can make better-
informed decisions about their health
care. PCORI-funded research is helping
to fill that gap, and I am pleased that
this bill will allow it to continue for
another decade.
The bill also includes important pol-
icy improvements contained in the
PCORI Reauthorization Act, S. 2897,
legislation I introduced with Senators
WARNER, CASSIDY, and CAPITO. H.R.
1865 will ensure that PCORI-funded re-
search is designed to take into account
and capture the full range of clinical
and patient-centered outcomes, includ-
ing the potential burdens and economic
impacts of various medical treatments,
items, and services like out-of-pocket
costs and nonmedical costs to patients
and families. Additionally, it adds a re-
quirement that the Government Ac-
countability Office report on any bar-
riers that researchers funded by PCORI
have encountered in conducting studies
or clinical trials, including challenges
covering the cost of any medical treat-
ments, services, and items.
I am, however, disappointed that this
bill eliminates Medicare’s contribution
to the PCOR Trust Fund. Medicare
beneficiaries benefit greatly from
PCORI-funded research. This includes a
number of projects that have focused
on helping older adults and their care-
givers make better-informed decisions
about their health care options, as well
as research on diseases and conditions
that disproportionately impact bene-
ficiaries. I am concerned that divesting
Medicare dollars sends a signal to
PCORI that Congress is not interested
in this critical research continuing to
be funded. I am pleased that this bill
increases the mandatory appropriation
to help make up for the loss of Medi-
care funds, but Congress must main-
tain this investment over the full
length of the authorization.
I am pleased that H.R. 1865 includes a
number of other bills that I am proud
to cosponsor, including the CREATES
Act, the Patient Access to Cellular
Transplant Act, and the Protecting
Beneficiary Access to Complex Rehab
Technology Act.
While I support much of this bill, I
am deeply troubled by some of its pro-
visions.
I have serious concerns about parts
of the tax extenders provisions of the
package. It is unfortunate that fol-
lowing on the heels of a tax cut for
wealthy households and big corpora-
tions that increased the national debt
by nearly $2 trillion, the tax changes in
this bill increase deficits by a further
$426 billion. While I support some of
the changes, we should have paid for
them by scaling back wasteful tax
breaks for those at the very top. And
some of them represent additional
giveaways to industry without suffi-
cient benefit for everyday Americans.
Moreover, I am extremely disappointed
that the tax extenders package did not
include tax measures for energy stor-
age, solar energy, offshore wind, and
electric vehicles. This represents a lost
opportunity to take even small steps to
address the climate crisis, and I urge
my colleagues to address these clean
energy tax measures early next year.
I am disappointed that the bill drops
House language preventing the Depart-
ment of Agriculture from physically
relocating the Economic Research
Service, ERS, and National Institute of
Food & Agriculture, NIFA, outside of
the National Capital Region. The relo-
cation and reorganization will impact
the quality and breadth of the work
these agencies support and perform—
work that is critical to informing and
supporting U.S. agriculture, food secu-
rity, and rural development. I appre-
ciate that the bill includes no addi-
tional funding for the move, and I hope
that the Secretary of Agriculture will
with us in Congress to repair the dam-
age that this relocation scheme has
done.
While I do have concerns about as-
pects of this bill, I believe it supports
critical health, education, and infra-
structure needs. I appreciate the hard
work of Senators SHELBY and LEAHY
and their staffs in crafting the bill and
their support for many priorities I have
pushed for on behalf of my constituents
in Maryland. It is an honor to serve on
the Appropriations Committee, and I
look forward to continuing our work to
responsibly fund the government and
its services for the American people in
the coming fiscal year.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
rise to speak on the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
The National Defense Authorization
Act conference agreement provides
crucial resources to our Armed Forces
and our national defense, including a
pay increase for our men and women in
uniform. I am proud that the Congress
was able to come together on a bipar-
tisan basis to pass this legislation to
support our servicemembers, strength-
en our national security, and invest in
critical projects in my home State of
Maryland.
While I have serious reservations
about a number of items included in
this legislation and am particularly
disappointed by the exclusion of impor-
tant priorities like the DETER Act to
prevent Russian interference in our
elections, I believe that, on balance,
this NDAA will strengthen our na-
tional security. For that reason, I
voted in favor of it.
With this bill, the Federal Govern-
ment will now provide 12 weeks of paid
parental leave to its workforce. We
have been fighting for years to provide
paid family and medical leave to work-
ers throughout the country. Now the
Federal Government will finally start
to lead by example. Paid leave will re-
duce employee turnover costs for the
Federal Government and help agencies
continue to recruit and retain top-
notch talent into the civil service. I
was proud to help secure this, and we
need to keep fighting until all workers
around the Nation receive paid family
and medical leave benefits.
The NDAA also repeals the military
widow’s tax. Currently, military wid-
ows and widowers who qualify for the
VA’s dependency and indemnity com-
pensation are forced to take a dollar-
for-dollar offset from the DOD Sur-
vivors Benefits Plan benefit, even
though their retired spouses elected to
pay into the program. No other Federal
surviving spouse is required to forfeit
his or her Federal annuity because
military service caused his or her spon-
sor’s death. This is fundamentally un-
just. In September, I met with a con-
stituent and military widow who was
subjected to this offset after the loss of
her husband. Hearing her story hard-
ened my resolve to ensure that we got
this done this year, and I am proud of
the Congress for coming together to re-
peal this offset.
Critically, this legislation also in-
cludes the Otto Warmbier North Korea
Nuclear Sanctions and Enforcement
Act, which I introduced with Senator
TOOMEY. This legislation offers foreign
banks and firms a stark choice: con-
tinue business with North Korea or
maintain access to the U.S. financial
system. Within 120 days of enactment
of the law, this legislation mandates
sanctions on the foreign banks and
companies that facilitate illicit finan-
cial transactions for the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea. North
Korea continues to perfect its ballistic
missile capabilities and produce more
fissile material for nuclear weapons.
Our aim is to cut off North Korea’s re-
maining access to the international fi-
nancial system and create the leverage
necessary for serious nuclear negotia-
tions to achieve the goal of the
denuclearization of the Korean Penin-
sula.
The NDAA also includes bipartisan
legislation that tracks the provision
Senator GRAHAM and I included in Sen-
ate Foreign Operations appropriations
bills over the years to prohibit the
transfer of the F–35 Joint Strike Fight-
er to Turkey until President Erdogan
relinquishes the Russian S–400 air and
missile defense system. Turkey has re-
cently started testing the S–400 missile
system, and they have said the system
will be operational early next year.
The administration must not only con-
tinue blocking the transfer of the F–
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.047 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7199
December 19, 2019
35s, but—as Senator GRAHAM and I in-
dicated in a recent letter to Secretary
Pompeo—it has a legal duty to impose
economic sanctions on Turkey.
The NDAA also includes a version of
a bill Senator COTTON and I introduced
to prevent the President from remov-
ing Chinese telecommunications giant
Huawei from the Commerce Depart-
ment’s Entity List without certifying
to Congress that it is complying with
U.S. laws and the administration has
mitigated the threat Huawei poses to
our national security. While I was dis-
appointed that our original bill was
watered down, the final version is still
better than the status quo.
This bill also includes a number of
measures I introduced to ensure that
we give proper recognition to Ameri-
cans who have bravely served our coun-
try in combat. One of them is Col.
Charles McGee. Colonel McGee, a dis-
tinguished Tuskegee Airman who re-
cently celebrated his 100th birthday, is
a living aviation legend and an Amer-
ican hero. From World War II to Korea,
Colonel McGee flew more combat mis-
sions than any other pilot in the serv-
ice of his country. The first African
American to command a stateside Air
Force wing and base, this Marylander’s
service to our Nation is truly remark-
able. That is why I worked with the Air
Force and introduced legislation to au-
thorize the honorary promotion of
Colonel McGee to brigadier general.
And today, on a bipartisan basis, the
Congress has authorized this honor.
Colonel McGee makes all Marylanders
proud and reminds us all of what it
means to serve.
The conference report also includes
the bipartisan World War I Valor Med-
als Review Act, which I introduced
with Senator BLUNT. This legislation
directs the Department of Defense to
review the service records of minority
service members who fought during
World War I and who may have been
passed over for the Medal of Honor be-
cause of their race or ethnicity. Many
of these individuals have never re-
ceived proper recognition for their acts
of valor.
Take, for example, William Butler of
Salisbury, MD. In 1916 he was living in
Harlem, where he enlisted in the New
York National Guard. His regiment
landed in France on Jan. 1, 1918. Sar-
gent Butler received the Distinguished
Service Cross and the French Croix de
Guerre for his bravery in rescuing sev-
eral members of his regiment from
their German captors. Sargent Butler
killed 10 Germans, took a German pris-
oner, freed all the American prisoners,
and brought them back to safety. He
returned home to a hero’s welcome.
The Baltimore Afro-American called
him ‘‘Maryland’s Greatest Hero.’’ The
New York Tribune called him a ‘‘hero
among heroes.’’ He and the rest of the
Harlem Hellfighters marched through
New York City. Upon his return to
Maryland, his small community gave
him a gold watch as a token of their re-
spect and appreciation. But despite a
recommendation for the Medal of
Honor, he never received it. In 1947,
after losing the ability to work, he
took his own life. He was buried at Ar-
lington—with a typo on his tombstone.
The living descendants of these vet-
erans deserve to know that their gov-
ernment, despite its past failings, rec-
ognizes their heroism. I am very proud
of the Congress for coming together to
honor those who chose to serve their
country, even at a time when their
country did not treat them as equal
citizens. In doing so we demonstrate
that it is never too late to right a his-
torical wrong.
I would also like to commend the
Valor Medals Review Task Force,
jointly established by the United
States Foundation for the Commemo-
ration of the World Wars and the
George S. Robb Centre for the Study of
the Great War, which has worked tire-
lessly to identify World War I veteran
service records for this review. I ap-
plaud the NDAA conferees for encour-
aging the Secretaries of the military
departments to consult with the Valor
Medals Review Task Force to identify
those service records that warrant fur-
ther review to determine whether such
veteran should be recommended for an
upgrade to the Medal of Honor for
valor.
The NDAA also addresses serious
concerns with the oversight of
privatized military housing. Over the
past year, I have engaged with leaders
at Fort Meade and Aberdeen Proving
Ground as they have addressed woe-
fully inadequate maintenance by pri-
vate housing contractors. The NDAA
includes key provisions of the Ensuring
Safe Housing for Our Military Act, of
which I am a cosponsor. This includes
withholding payment of the basic al-
lowance for housing under certain cir-
cumstances, the creation of a Tenant
Bill of Rights and the position of Chief
Housing Officer, a uniform code of
basic standards for privatized military
housing, and access for tenants to an
online work order system, among other
improvements.
Lastly, I am pleased that the bill in-
cludes language requiring congres-
sional notification and a 120-day wait-
ing period before the President gives
notice of his intent to withdraw from
the New START and Open Skies trea-
ties.
While I am pleased with many of the
provisions included in this bill and
voted for its passage, I do have signifi-
cant reservations.
First, the unchecked growth in the
defense budget is unsustainable, and
the continued use of the overseas con-
tingency operations budget to fund ele-
ments of the Pentagon’s regular base
budget activities with war funds is a
blatant abuse of the budget process. We
have a duty to ensure the readiness of
our forces, and I support efforts to re-
build our Armed Forces after years of
costly overseas engagements. But mas-
sive spending increases without clear
strategic direction do not make us
safer, and the use of off-budget ac-
counts to boost Pentagon spending is a
disservice to our children and grand-
children, who will pay for these spend-
ing increases regardless of whether or
not they are properly accounted for
today. Especially in a post-Budget Con-
trol Act environment, where we are not
constrained by artificial caps, we need
to be thoughtful about our spending
choices, recognize that every dollar
spent on defense is a dollar not spent
on health care, education, workforce
training, and other critical areas of
need. And we need to use OCO in a re-
sponsible manner consistent with its
original purpose, and not as an off-
budget slush fund.
Second, I am extremely disappointed
by the Congress’s failure to act to pro-
hibit U.S. military support for the
Saudi-led war in Yemen. This brutal
war has raged for more than 4 years.
Thousands have lost their lives in this
conflict. Millions are displaced from
their homes. The cycle of desperation,
destruction, and death continues
unabated. Earlier this year, Congress
voted to end U.S. support for the war in
Yemen—legislation that President
Trump vetoed. The refusal of Repub-
licans to address this issue as part of
the NDAA is shameful.
Third, this legislation supports the
President’s effort to spend $1.3 trillion
dollars on nuclear weapons. It contains
no prohibition on fielding low-yield nu-
clear warheads on submarine-launched
ballistic missiles, near-full funding for
research and development on INF-
range missiles, near-full funding to
build new ICBMs and associated war-
heads, and full funding to retain the
B83 megaton gravity bomb, which the
Obama administration had intended to
retire as part of its modernization ef-
forts. And while it affirms the benefits
of legally-binding verifiable limits on
Russian strategic nuclear forces, it
does not explicitly endorse the exten-
sion of New START. This, like so much
else in this bill, is a missed oppor-
tunity. Senator YOUNG and I have in-
troduced bipartisan legislation urging
a 5 year extension of the New START
agreement, and the Senate should pass
it expeditiously.
Fourth, Republicans blocked a provi-
sion in the House NDAA that prevented
the President from waging a war with
Iran without an explicit authorization
from the Congress. President Trump’s
Iran strategy has been blind unilateral
escalation with no end goal. That is
why his actions have produced exactly
the opposite result of what his so-
called ‘‘maximum pressure’’ campaign
intended. President Trump has dis-
membered the multilateral coalition
that forged the Iran deal. He has frayed
our alliances in Europe and empowered
our adversaries. All the while, the ad-
ministration has raised the specter of a
possible military intervention with
Iran. By blocking this provision, Re-
publicans are enabling the President to
subvert Congress’s constitutional pre-
rogative with respect to decisions of
war.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.048 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7200 December 19, 2019
Finally, Majority Leader MCCONNELL
blocked the inclusion the bipartisan
DETER Act, which I introduced with
Senator RUBIO to deter future Russian
interference in U.S. Federal elections.
The DETER Act sends a clear message
to Russian President Putin or any
other foreign adversary: If you attack
American elections, you will face se-
vere consequences. Leader MCCONNELL
blocked this measure from the NDAA,
even though the Senate unanimously
passed a resolution in the fall instruct-
ing the NDAA conferees to support its
inclusion. In addition, Republican lead-
ership removed a related provision in
the House-passed NDAA imposing sanc-
tions on Russian sovereign debt in re-
sponse to interference in U.S. elec-
tions.
Leader MCCONNELL’s decision to
block the DETER Act and the House
sanctions on Russian sovereign debt ef-
fectively green-lights Russian inter-
ference in future U.S. elections. It is a
gift to Russian President Vladimir
Putin and a subversion of the clear de-
sire expressed by both Chambers of
Congress to hold Russia accountable
for future interference. It reinforces
Putin’s belief that the costs of attack-
ing our democracy are low and the re-
wards are great. It is a dereliction of
his duty, as a representative of the peo-
ple, to protect our Nation from foreign
adversaries. I will continue fighting for
the passage of the DETER Act. The
next national election is less than a
year away, and we must make clear to
Putin that Russia will pay a steep
price if they interfere in another elec-
tion.
While I am strongly opposed to some
of the provisions in this bill and dis-
appointed by the omission of others, I
believe that, on balance, the NDAA
will strengthen our national security
and advance other important national
priorities. For that reason, I voted in
support of final passage.
f
TRIBUTE TO JOHNNY ISAKSON
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I rise to
pay tribute to Senator JOHNNY ISAKSON
from the great State of Georgia. I, like
all of my colleagues in the Senate, am
saddened by his retirement. His depar-
ture leaves a big hole in this Chamber
that may never be truly filled.
JOHNNY is a Senator’s Senator. He
embodies the best qualities of a public
servant. He is smart, hard-working, de-
termined, effective. He is humble, not
at all self-important, and never seeks
attention for himself. He has integrity.
He is a man of his word.
He is known throughout the Senate
as ready to reach across the aisle to
seek bipartisan solutions—one of the
main reasons he is so effective. As he
put it during his farewell speech on the
Senate floor, ‘‘I tell you, I am big on
bipartisanship.’’ JOHNNY encourages us
to take his lead and listen to and work
with the other side. We all can learn
from his example.
JOHNNY is kind. His heart is big. He
always has a smile or greeting for the
Senate custodians, Capitol police, cafe-
teria workers, Senate pages. He always
has the time to be kind to others.
JOHNNY is Georgian through and
through and loves his State and its
people. He has served them for 45
years—in both State houses and both
Congressional Chambers—and is now
Georgia’s most senior elected official.
JOHNNY is as beloved by the people of
his State as he is in the Senate—and
for good reason. He has worked to build
Georgia’s economy, its rural commu-
nities, its international trade, its har-
bors, the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention in Atlanta, and on and
on.
But JOHNNY is not only a champion
for his State, he is a champion for the
Nation, and he gets things done for our
country. JOHNNY’s legislative finger-
prints are everywhere. From protecting
workers’ pensions, to fighting child-
hood hunger, to increasing affordable
housing so families have a roof over
their heads, to helping people with dis-
abilities, to making sure children with
rare diseases get their medications, to
getting treatment for victims of the
opioid crisis—JOHNNY has been working
for the American people because he
cares deeply and genuinely about hu-
manity. It is not show for JOHNNY. You
see what you get. He is the real deal.
It is important to thank JOHNNY for
his extraordinary work on behalf of
veterans. He is a veteran himself, hav-
ing served 6 years in the Georgia Air
National Guard after college, and vet-
erans have no stronger champion than
JOHNNY. As chair of the Senate Vet-
erans’ Affairs Committee, he shep-
herded an amazing 57 bills through the
Senate. He helped extend the GI bill so
that veterans aren’t met with an arbi-
trary cutoff to take advantage of their
educational benefits. He made sure vet-
erans have access to community- and
home-based health services. And his
signature VA Mission legislation en-
sures that healthcare for veterans is
more responsive and more effective.
As I said, JOHNNY’s heart is big, and
he welcomes all people. Atlanta hosted
the 1996 summer Olympics. Cobb Coun-
ty is a suburban county of Atlanta and
was set to host some preliminary
Olympic events. But the Cobb County
Commission had passed an anti-gay,
discriminatory resolution. At that
time, JOHNNY was a Cobb County Re-
publican, serving in the State senate.
It might not have been the most pop-
ular position in his county, but he
urged the County Commission to re-
scind the resolution.
One of JOHNNY’s best friends is civil
rights icon JOHN LEWIS. On February
25, 1996, Representative LEWIS intro-
duced JOHNNY as the newest member of
Georgia’s congressional delegation, and
on November 19, 2019, he gave JOHNNY a
warm farewell, explaining to the House
that ‘‘when JOHNNY served in the House
of Representatives, we always found a
way to come together, and we contin-
ued that tradition when he was elected
to the Senate. . . . We always found a
way to get along and to do the good
work the people deserved. Time and
time again, he stood with us, he
worked with us to uplift African Amer-
icans in the State of Georgia, to recog-
nize individuals like Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr., and Jackie Robinson, natives
of Georgia.’’ At the end of the tribute,
Representative LEWIS called JOHNNY
his ‘‘brother,’’ and they gave each
other a long embrace.
During his farewell speech, JOHNNY
said:
We still have some people in the United
States of America who will play the hate
card. We have some politicians who will
dance around the issue of hate. They will not
use the buzz words, but they will get awful
close to it. They did it in Charlottesville. . .
. We have to stand up to the evils of society
today. If we don’t do it, nobody will.
JOHNNY has stood up for over four
decades for what he believes in. We will
miss his honesty, his integrity, and his
fine character. Jill and I wish JOHNNY
and Dianne, their three children, and
eight grandchildren the very best.
Enjoy life. And we will do our best to
follow your example in the Senate.
Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I want-
ed to spend a few moments to recognize
my colleague and friend, Senator ISAK-
SON from Georgia.
When I first came to the Senate in
2009—a decade ago, it surprises me to
say—I was on the Banking Committee.
We were in the middle of the worst fi-
nancial crisis since the Great Depres-
sion, and millions of Americans were
losing their homes each month.
We held a hearing on housing, and I
remember Senator ISAKSON coming to
testify because, before he was in poli-
tics, he had spent several years in the
private sector working in real estate. I
appreciated that moment because, one,
I had also spent some time in business
before politics, and two, because it was
so refreshing to hear from someone
who actually knew what they were
talking about.
Over the past 10 years, I have had the
benefit of Senator ISAKSON’s experi-
ence, friendship, and wisdom on both
the HELP and Finance Committees.
In JOHNNY, so many of us have had a
model for how to get things done even
in this moment of partisan division. He
was a welcome throwback to a time
when people didn’t come to this town
just to spend every moment on cable
news but to get things done for the
people they came here to represent.
JOHNNY’s record suggests there is
nothing quaint or naı̈ve about that ap-
proach to the work because over his 15
years in the Senate, he has managed to
secure quite a few bipartisan accom-
plishments, including several things we
have worked on together.
I remember JOHNNY really digging in
and getting his hands dirty on the
SAVE Act, our bill to make Federal
mortgage loan agencies consider the
returns from energy efficiency when
they determine your ability to make
your monthly payments. We passed
that out of the Senate, and it was a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.048 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7201
December 19, 2019
tremendous credit to JOHNNY’s deter-
mination and focus.
We passed a bill to modernize the
FDA’s medical device inspections and
to strengthen patient access to reha-
bilitation hospitals in Colorado and
Georgia. We passed an amendment to
strengthen funding for early learning
programs. And we introduced bills to-
gether to provide tax relief for
AmeriCorps members who earned Segal
Awards to help pay for college.
I could go on, and it is a credit to
JOHNNY’s broad record of bipartisan
work.
JOHNNY has been a particular cham-
pion for our veterans. As a former
member of the Georgia Air National
Guard, JOHNNY has been a steady and
effective advocate for those who have
served. Last year, he was instrumental
in passing a bipartisan bill to make it
far easier for veterans to take their
benefits to private doctors for care,
among other long-overdue reforms.
With our large population of veterans
in Colorado, we were especially grate-
ful to JOHNNY for his leadership.
There is a lot more I could share, but
the point is, JOHNNY has used his time
here well—with real results for the peo-
ple of Georgia. He didn’t do it through
bullying or shouting or threatening to
bring the Senate to its knees if he
didn’t get his way. He did it JOHNNY’s
way—with unfailing kindness, grace,
humor, and dogged persistence. It
would be easy to mistake JOHNNY’s
kindness for a lack of intensity or de-
termination, but behind his easy smile
is a fierce devotion to Georgia and a
welcome impatience with the inaction
of this town.
That approach is how JOHNNY leaves
this body not only with a considerable
record of accomplishment but with a
long list of admirers on both sides of
the aisle who are now wondering who is
going to host the annual bipartisan
BBQ. We are sad to see him go, and we
wish him all the best as he returns to
Georgia to focus on his health and
spend time with his wife, Diane, their
three kids and eight grandkids.
JOHNNY, I wish you the very best.
Know that the Senate will feel your ab-
sence and cherish the example you set
here.
f
100TH ANNIVESARY OF THE AMER-
ICAN METEOROLOGICAL SOCIETY
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, this
month we recognize the 100th anniver-
sary of the founding of the American
Meteorological Society, AMS, which
spent the last century advancing the
atmospheric and related sciences. The
work of AMS contributed to tech-
nologies and services that expand our
understanding of the world and the
risks associated with our water, weath-
er, and climate.
AMS was founded in 1919 in Milton,
MA, to advance, promote, and dissemi-
nate information about these impor-
tant sciences. The society now has over
13,000 members, including researchers,
educators, students, enthusiasts,
broadcasters, and other professionals
in weather, water, and climate. Its rig-
orously peer-reviewed scientific publi-
cations and scientific conferences have
contributed to knowledge growth
across the geosciences, especially in
the prediction of environmental phe-
nomena that has led to lifesaving serv-
ices. AMS also offers nationally recog-
nized certifications that serve the
public’s need to identify broadcast and
consulting meteorologists who have
achieved a high level of competency in
communicating complex weather,
water, and climate information.
AMS has been a leader in promoting
diversity, equity, and inclusion in the
science, technology, engineering, and
math STEM fields. Its activities in sup-
port of STEM education and develop-
ment activities for K-12 teachers have
positively impacted millions of stu-
dents nationwide. Its leadership in edu-
cation also brings AMS to the Halls of
Congress, where the society supports
congressional fellows, research studies
on environmental policy, and policy
briefings to ensure that policies are de-
veloped using the best available knowl-
edge and understanding.
AMS has also been crucial in devel-
oping the extensive scientific evidence
of manmade climate change and has
helped us understand the threat it
poses to society if we do not act. AMS
has been an international leader in pro-
viding peer-reviewed information to
support evidence-based decision mak-
ing related to climate change. Congress
owes a debt of gratitude to AMS for its
advocacy and education on this global
threat.
With the scope and size of the chal-
lenge that climate change presents,
Congress and the American people will
undoubtedly depend on another suc-
cessful century of leadership and sci-
entific advancements from the Amer-
ican Meteorological Society. We con-
gratulate and thank AMS for its cen-
tury-long effort to understand the nat-
ural world, and we pledge our contin-
ued support to the important sciences
AMS aims to advance.
f
TRIBUTE TO KAREN J. LEWIS
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
today to congratulate Karen J. Lewis
on her many years of service to Con-
gress. After a 45-year career distin-
guished by outstanding achievements,
Karen will retire from the Congres-
sional Research Service, CRS, in Janu-
ary 2020 after leading the Service’s
American Law Division, ALD, for
many years.
Karen joined CRS as a legislative at-
torney in 1974 after graduating from
Albany Law School earlier that year.
In the following decade, Karen provided
nonpartisan advice to Congress on
some of the most difficult legal mat-
ters facing the Nation in the 1970s and
1980s, including sex discrimination in
the workplace, abortion rights after
Roe v. Wade, and the Equal Rights
Amendment. She also advised Congress
on the implementation of numerous
civil rights laws, including title VII of
the Civil Rights Act, the Fair Housing
Act, title IX of the Higher Education
Act, and the Age Discrimination Act.
In 1984, Karen moved into CRS man-
agement, serving first as the section
head of ALD’s consumer law group be-
fore heading the Division’s administra-
tive law section. In the nearly 25 years
she served in these roles, Karen helped
mentor dozens of attorneys, engraining
in them CRS’s core values of providing
authoritative and objective legal ad-
vice regardless of partisan affiliation.
Any attorney trained under Karen’s tu-
telage is well familiar with her re-
peated advice to rely on primary
sources to ensure CRS’s legal advice is
trustworthy and reliable.
In 2007, Karen was promoted to senior
CRS leadership, serving in a variety of
capacities, including 11 years as the
Assistant Director of CRS’s ALD. As
the head of the law division, Karen
played a central role reviewing ALD’s
written work, helping to ensure its ac-
curacy, completeness, and quality. She
also led countless initiatives for the
Service. This included helping to estab-
lish the Legal Sidebar—CRS’s first ex-
clusively web-based product line to
provide succinct and timely analysis to
Congress on matters of pressing impor-
tance. She also was instrumental in
raising the profile of the Service’s Fed-
eral Law Update, a seminar series that
provides continued legal education for
Congress, which tripled its average at-
tendance under Karen’s leadership.
Karen also spearheaded the first major
revision since 1952 of the ‘‘Constitution
Annotated,’’ the Congress’ official trea-
tise of record on the Constitution. And
Karen has been instrumental in hiring
some of the finest attorneys in the
Federal Government to help Congress
in legal debates over executive power,
health care reform, immigration, and
the future of the Supreme Court. More-
over, throughout her time in manage-
ment, Karen served on countless advi-
sory panels that have helped establish
organizational practices and policies
for CRS.
While Karen’s retirement is a loss for
Congress, her imprint on the legisla-
tive branch will not soon disappear.
CRS and the ALD offer an invaluable
service to Congress by providing mem-
bers with reliable, nonpartisan infor-
mation to assist the legislative process
at every step. Karen spent nearly all of
her professional career supporting
Congress’s work and strengthening
CRS through her work in ALD. She
served as a role model for hundreds of
attorneys who can attest that her in-
tegrity, work ethic, and dedication to
CRS’s core values is second to none.
Her legacy will continue with the divi-
sion she helped build and the Service
more broadly. Congratulations to
Karen, and I wish her many long and
happy years in retirement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.034 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7202 December 19, 2019
TRIBUTE TO NATHAN
BERGERBEST
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
rise today to honor a long-time Senate
staffer who recently retired, Nathan
Bergerbest.
Many Members and staff who have
worked on judiciary, military and vet-
erans, homeland security, public safe-
ty, foreign relations, intelligence, or
Native American issues and national
and international disasters likely had
the opportunity to work with Nathan
during the 16 years he served the peo-
ple of Alaska and the Nation. I am sure
that many can share stories of the help
Nathan offered, ideas he pushed to fru-
ition, and wise counsel he provided. My
statement today will offer just a slice
of the many contributions this accom-
plished man has made in the lives of so
many.
Nathan began his interest in good
public policy and politics at a young
age growing up in New York City. I be-
lieve he once said that he got involved
in his first political campaign in ele-
mentary school because he was search-
ing for the candidate who could im-
prove his neighborhood. His quest for
what was right, what was fair, and
what was useful public policy has never
subsided.
An attorney, Nathan has been a liti-
gator, represented an Alaska Native re-
gional corporation, and worked at
FEMA. He started in my office in 2003
as legislative assistant and retired as
senior counsel and deputy chief of
staff. Throughout his service here in
the Senate, Nathan was the quintessen-
tial Senate staffer—working late,
knowing his subject cold, under-
standing the ways of the Senate and
navigating them brilliantly.
His portfolio was huge, complex, and
important. Yet he never shirked from
pitching in where he could be useful.
Nathan served not only as a mentor to
young staffers in my office but as the
conscience of Federal agency employ-
ees, military personnel, and elected
leaders—constantly challenging us to
do better, to be better versions of our-
selves.
While a tribute from a former em-
ployer is always gratifying, Nathan
made a lasting impression on so many
who have worked here in the Senate
over the years. I would like to share
some of their stories. Several of the
military fellows who have served in my
office and worked closely with Nathan
shared these words:
Nathan was part of the original group that
came to be known as the Fairbanks Tiger
Team, leading the red-shirted charge with
the Fairbanks community against the Air
Force’s proposed plan to remove the F–16 Ag-
gressor Squadron from Eielson Air Force
Base. He rallied community leaders, helped
leverage the effort on the Defense Appropria-
tions Committee, and ultimately helped the
Alaska delegation save Eielson. Then, only a
year later, he worked to support the Alaska
delegation’s strong push to bring the F–35 to
Eielson. In just over a year, the delegation
was able to take Eielson from a near-shut-
tered installation, to one that will soon have
the most capable fighter aircraft in the
world, with significant infrastructure invest-
ment to support it.
The Tiger Team still meets over telephone
or in person every other Friday to discuss
housing and other local community issues
related to the military. The team has
evolved over the years with new members
joining and old members retiring or moving
to different lines of work. Nathan will be
missed on these calls but his legacy will be
forever forged in the Fairbanks community
and the national defense of our country.
New commanders coming to Wash-
ington, DC, for their Hill visits would
often ask my military and veterans af-
fairs liaison in Anchorage for advice
about how to prepare. The advice they
received was ‘‘Don’t try to BS Nathan,
because he’ll be able to sniff it out.’’
Several of these commanders were re-
lieved when the meeting with Nathan
was over.
But Nathan would bend over back-
wards to help the military or a service-
member. ‘‘A Colonel who served in
Alaska attributed Nathan for saving
his career. He didn’t give any details.
Only that he owed him everything.’’
That is just like Nathan—to do good
for an American and move on to the
next task.
Nathan was a true friend to the Alaska Na-
tional Guard as well, very close to the Adju-
tant Generals, and always quick to help sup-
port their needs or tout their accomplish-
ments.
Nathan was extremely proud that Alaska
boasts the highest rate of veterans per capita
and worked to ensure strong representation
of the Total Force military and veteran com-
munities, always working to advance vet-
erans’ rights and benefits. His efforts helped
lead to improvements in VA hospitals in
Alaska as well as advances in telemedicine
and other support to veterans in remote
Alaskan communities.
Public safety and support for law en-
forcement were always priorities for
Nathan. He helped to lead collaborative
efforts among the Federal agencies and
State and local law enforcement to
keep drugs out of Alaskan commu-
nities, and he never missed honoring
the fallen at the National Fallen Offi-
cers Memorial ceremonies. He cared
deeply for all those who put themselves
in harm’s way.
While he was a policy expert in so
many areas, Nathan was never one to
ignore a plea for help from an indi-
vidual Alaskan. There are countless ex-
amples of ‘‘casework’’ that he took on
in addition to his legislative duties.
From arranging military honors for
veterans’ funerals, persuading the Ca-
nadian Border Security Agency to rein-
state 24-hour border crossings between
Hyder, AK, and British Columbia, en-
suring Alaskans’ concerns were heard
by the Navy prior to Northern Edge ex-
ercises, protecting National Guard
members from retaliation during an in-
vestigation of sexual misconduct com-
plaints, improving the standard of care
at VA medical facilities, or any num-
ber of efforts, Nathan started with the
question ‘‘What does the individual
need?’’ and went about getting it done.
In many instances, Nathan would help
my staff in Alaska navigate the bu-
reaucracy to help solve an Alaskan’s
problem.
A former attorney for FEMA, Nathan
was also the Alaska delegation’s go-to
staffer whenever disaster struck. After
the November 2018 earthquake struck
Anchorage, Mat-Su, and the Kenai Pe-
ninsula, Nathan helped disentangle
municipalities, school districts, busi-
ness owners, and individuals from the
byzantine red tape that often charac-
terizes FEMA. In call after call, Na-
than translated FEMA’s language and
policies for Alaskans and worked with
FEMA officials to do a better job as-
sessing and responding to the damage.
When FEMA sought to respond to a
flood in Galena but lacked a sense of
the challenges of rural Alaska, Nathan
helped prod and guide the agency in
improving the response.
Nathan took the same sense of dedi-
cation to his work on Indian, Alaska
Native, and Native Hawaiian issues.
Leading Alaska tribal rights attorney
Lloyd Miller called Nathan ‘‘one of the
most knowledgeable and talented law-
yers to ever work on the Hill. He com-
bined an unmatched mastery of Alaska
Native legal history with a deep sensi-
tivity to Alaska Native issues gained
from working inside one of the major
Alaska Native regional corporations.
And while his background before com-
ing to the Hill was predominantly with
Alaska Native corporations, he was
equally knowledgeable about the
unique challenges confronting Alaska
Native Tribes, and the importance of
supporting the critical role that Alas-
ka Tribes play alongside their corpora-
tions. Nathan’s remarkable intellect
and sage advice will be deeply missed.’’
Over the years, as protestors filled
the halls of Capitol Hill and individual
offices, Nathan would stay late to talk
with those who visited my office. He
would sit with them for long periods
and talk about how they can best navi-
gate the issues, and how they, as advo-
cates, could best approach offices for
meetings and how they can present
their issues in such a way that they
were truly being heard on both sides of
the aisle. On at least one or two occa-
sions, I have seen him go and literally
sit on the floor with protestors outside
of my office for an hour or two—just
listening to what they had to say so
that he could ensure I understood the
concerns of Americans who are so pas-
sionate about the important issues of
the day.
No matter what the time of day or
day of the week, Nathan made himself
available to me, to other members of
my staff, and to Alaskans. As my con-
stituent services director in Anchorage
put it, ‘‘I remember one time in par-
ticular in 2011 where he and I each took
12-hour shifts around the clock so we
could help Alaskan constituents after
the 9.0 magnitude earthquake struck in
the Pacific Ocean off the northeast
coast of Japan. A massive tsunami was
triggered that flooded Japan’s coastal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.067 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7203
December 19, 2019
communities and damaged infrastruc-
ture. We spent several days in commu-
nication with constituents stranded in
Japan that were trying to navigate the
treacherous environment, commu-
nicate with the State Department, and
ultimately obtain transportation
home. He was also helpful in working
with stranded Alaskan constituents
after the 2015 severe earthquake in
Nepal. He reached out to the lobbyist
for Orbitz, since many of the foreign
air carriers on their website raised
prices drastically when trying to book
flights out of Nepal after the earth-
quake.’’
There are so many stories illus-
trative of Nathan’s positive influence
here in the U.S. Senate and in Alaska.
I thank Nathan Bergerbest for his
service to Alaska and the Nation and
wish him well.
f
TRIBUTE TO FAISAL AMIN
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I rise
today to recognize the work of Mr.
Faisal Amin, who has been serving for
the past 4 months as a detailee on the
staff of the U.S. Senate Appropriations
Subcommittee on the Interior, Envi-
ronment, and Related Agencies.
Faisal is a senior attorney for the
Budget and Appropriations Law Group
at the U.S. Government Accountability
Office and joined the staff in Sep-
tember of this year to fill in for a long-
time staff member on maternity leave.
Faisal has been heavily involved in
the drafting, consideration, and pas-
sage of the fiscal year 2020 Interior ap-
propriations bill starting from the first
day of his assignment with the sub-
committee. In just 4 months, he par-
ticipated in almost all of the mile-
stones of the appropriations process: a
committee markup, floor consider-
ation, and conference negotiations.
He ably represented Vice Chairman
LEAHY and me throughout the process,
handling the day-to-day responsibil-
ities of overseeing the budgets of the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
and related agencies and working with
other congressional offices, Agency
staff, nongovernmental organizations,
and other stakeholders to ensure that
the priorities of Members of this Cham-
ber on both sides of the aisle were well
represented.
Faisal did tremendous work, stepping
in to handle complicated policy and
budgetary issues in an unusually expe-
dited process. He is smart, pragmatic,
thoughtful, and strategic—creating an
excellent rapport with his colleagues
on both sides of the aisle and serving as
an optimistic and positive presence on
the subcommittee. I am grateful for his
time with us, and I know his colleagues
on the subcommittee staff—Rachael
Taylor, Ryan Hunt and Melissa Zim-
merman—feel the same way.
On behalf of Vice Chairman LEAHY
and the committee, I also extend our
gratitude to the Comptroller General,
Mr. Gene Dodaro, and the staff of the
U.S. Government Accountability Office
for sharing Faisal with us during this
critical time.
Congratulations, Faisal, for a job
well done, and thank you for your serv-
ice to the United States Senate.
f
TRIBUTE TO GARY HARTZ
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I rise to
recognize Mr. Gary Hartz, who is retir-
ing from his position at the Indian
Health Service with 48 years of distin-
guished Federal service to the Nation.
Mr. Hartz is especially deserving of
this Chamber’s recognition because he
has spent his entire career on a single
and absolutely critical goal-improving
access to quality health care for Amer-
ican Indians and Alaska Natives. In his
current position, Mr. Hartz serves as
the Director of the Office of Environ-
mental Health and Engineering, over-
seeing the construction, maintenance,
and operations of Tribal health facili-
ties, sanitation, and environmental
health programs, a position that he has
performed for more than two decades
after working his way up through
ranks of the office. An engineer by
trade, Mr. Hartz also served as a mem-
ber of the Public Health Service Com-
missioned Corps—retiring with the
rank of rear admiral—and served brief-
ly as the agency’s Deputy Director. He
began his career in the field, working
as an engineer on projects in New Mex-
ico and Alaska.
I am fortunate to have had the oppor-
tunity to work with Mr. Hartz in my
roles as vice chairman of the Senate
Committee on Indian Affairs and the
ranking member of the Senate Interior
Appropriations Subcommittee on the
Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies. He has worked closely with
me and my staff and testified before
my committees, and I can say from
firsthand experience that he is one of
the most knowledgeable, dedicated,
and pragmatic public servants at the
Indian Health Service, and his wisdom
and experience will be deeply missed.
Finally, I want to thank him for all
that he has done for my home State of
New Mexico. Mr. Hartz has been instru-
mental in working to improve and re-
place Tribal health facilities, including
working most recently on plans to re-
place the Service’s Albuquerque,
Alamo, Pueblo Pintado, and Gallup fa-
cilities. While we have more to do, I
am tremendously grateful for the work
that he has done to improve access to
quality health care in Native commu-
nities across the State.
On behalf of the Nation, thank you
for a job well done, Mr. Hartz. I wish
you all the best as you begin your next
chapter.
f
TRIBUTE TO DELIA SCOTT
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I rise to
recognize Ms. Delia Scott, who is retir-
ing next month with more than 40
years of distinguished Federal service
in the executive and legislative
branches of government.
I have been lucky enough to work
with Delia twice, both when I served in
the House of Representatives and in
my current role as ranking member of
the Senate Appropriations Sub-
committee on the Interior, Environ-
ment, and Related Agencies.
Most recently, Delia has served as
the Congressional Liaison Officer at
the National Gallery of Art, shaping
the Gallery’s relationship with mem-
bers of the U.S. Senate and House of
Representatives. I know firsthand that
Delia has been an effective advocate
for the Gallery, playing an essential
role in shepherding its annual appro-
priations through Congress and secur-
ing critical funding increases for oper-
ating and infrastructure needs.
Beyond her role with the budget,
Delia has made it her goal to connect
Members of the House and Senate with
the world-class collection at the Gal-
lery so they are invested in its success.
My wife, Jill, and I are both grateful to
have visited countless times to enjoy
and learn about significant paintings,
sculpture, photographs, and other
works because of Delia’s thoughtful in-
vitations. The Gallery won’t be the
same without her.
For all her impressive work at the
Gallery, I also want to recognize her
enduring legacy of public service in
other positions. Prior to her current
position, Delia served as the staff di-
rector for the House Subcommittee on
the Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies, managing a $30-plus billion
funding bill and working to secure
funding for natural resources, environ-
mental protection, and Tribal and cul-
tural programs. She also worked as a
professional staff member for the com-
mittee and worked for more than two
decades at the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency.
Delia has devoted her entire career to
making sure that Federal agencies and
programs-from the arts to environ-
mental protection to foreign assist-
ance-have operated smoothly and re-
ceived ample funding to benefit the
people of this Nation. For that service
we should all be grateful.
I congratulate her on a job well done
and an outstanding Federal career, and
I wish her and her husband, John, the
very best as they move on to the next
chapter of their lives.
f
TRIBUTE TO COMMANDER
MICHAEL D. CASSADY
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I rise
today to pay special tribute to Com-
mander Michael D. Cassady, Medical
Service Corps, U.S. Navy. Commander
Cassady currently serves as the Pro-
gram Manager, Naval Advanced Med-
ical Development at the Naval Medical
Research Center and will be released
from Active Duty after almost 35 years
of Active military service on March 1,
2019. Commander Cassady is a native of
Millersport, OH, and I am pleased to
recognize his distinguished career.
Commander Cassady enlisted in the
U.S. Navy on May 21, 1985, and after
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.067 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7204 December 19, 2019
completing initial training at the
Naval Training Center in San Diego, he
earned designation as a hospital corps-
man third class. In 1991, Cassady grad-
uated from University of Maryland
University College and received a com-
mission on June 8, 1993 as an environ-
mental health officer.
From 1993 to 1999, Cassady completed
tours at the U.S. Naval Hospital
Keflavik in Iceland and Branch Medical
Clinic in Iwakuni, Japan, where he in-
creased the overall readiness and
health of hospital staff and improved
testing of the base drinking water. In
2001, he deployed to Australia in sup-
port of Exercise Tandem Thrust 2001
and later deployed to Thailand in sup-
port of Exercise Cobra Gold 2002 to im-
prove combat readiness, combined-
joint interoperability, and enhance se-
curity relationships between the
United States, Thailand, and Singapo-
rean forces. He subsequently served as
a medical department and safety in-
spector for the Board of Inspection and
Survey, providing direct support to the
fleet; and as chief, medical concept and
development, Joint Forces Command,
where he furthered joint warfighter ca-
pabilities and supported U.S. Northern
Command response and relief efforts
post Hurricane Katrina.
In 2006, he deployed to Iraq in support
of combat operations, where he served
as the civil affairs public health sec-
tion lead, Multi-National Division in
Baghdad. Upon returning from Iraq, he
served as the assistant officer in charge
for the Navy Environmental and Pre-
ventive Medicine Unit Two. Cassady
also deployed as the medical planning
officer in Expeditionary Strike Group
Two and U.S. Naval Forces Central
Command in Bahrain, where he was in-
strumental in coordinating medical
plans, guidance, and response to
counter piracy and Marine Corps oper-
ations, and health service support to
the U.S. FIFTH Fleet. His next two
tours of duty were as the Environ-
mental Health Officer at the U.S.
Naval Hospital Guantanamo Bay in
Cuba and the U.S. Naval Hospital in
Naples, Italy. During these tours he
provided public health oversight and
leadership. Commander Cassady re-
ported to his current and final tour of
duty in July 2014 at the Naval Medical
Research Center in Silver Spring,
where he provides program manage-
ment, leadership, and key administra-
tive direction.
Commander Cassady has spent the
entirety of his adult life and over 15 of
his 35 years of naval service deployed
or stationed overseas in the defense of
the United States. Additionally, he
holds a master of science in manage-
ment from Troy State University, a
master of public health degree from
the Ohio State University, a master of
arts in national security and strategy
from the Naval War College in 2007, and
a master of science in education from
Old Dominion University, which he
completed in December of 2011.
Mr. President, I ask that you join
me, our colleagues, and Commander
Mike Cassady’s family and friends in
saluting this distinguished officer’s
many contributions and sacrifices in
defense of our great Nation. It is fit-
ting that the Senate today publicly
recognizes his service and wishes him,
his wife Rohini, and their children,
Rhyan, Kassandra, Briana, and David,
health, happiness, and success in the
years to come.
Congratulations, Commander
Cassady, on completing an exemplary
career.
f
TRIBUTE TO YVETTE LEWIS
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
rise today to recognize Yvette Lewis
for her excellent service as part of my
team in support of the people of Mary-
land. Yvette has been our director of
external relations and community out-
reach in my Senate office since I began
my service in the Senate. In that ca-
pacity, she has organized forums
throughout Maryland to provide sup-
port to our veterans, our senior citi-
zens, and others. Her signature pro-
gram was organizing consumer protec-
tion forums across our State so we
could alert Marylanders to the wide
array of schemes and scams designed to
cheat consumers out of their hard-
earned money. She has been deeply
committed to the principle that the
health of our entire State depends on
the success of all our communities.
I have had the pleasure of knowing
Yvette for over a decade and am grate-
ful for all her good works in our State
and beyond. She is a longtime resident
of Bowie, MD, and has worked for years
in public service and civic engagement.
She has previously worked as the presi-
dent of the Voter Empowerment Action
Project. Moreover, she has also served
on the White House Commission for
Presidential Scholars. Additionally,
she has an accomplished background in
music as an opera singer and music
teacher in Baltimore City, Baltimore
County, and Montgomery county
schools. Yvette is married to Ed Lewis,
and they have two children, Shannon
and Eric.
Various events have led to a sudden
vacancy in the position of the chair of
the Maryland Democratic Party.
Yvette was the consensus choice as the
right person for the job at this mo-
ment. While we will miss her on Cap-
itol Hill, I am glad that her enormous
talents will also be put to good use in
her new role.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
REMEMBERING DENISE D’ASCENZO
∑ Mr. BLUMENTHAL. I rise today with
a heavy heart to pay tribute to Denise
D’Ascenzo, the longtime anchor at
WFSB Channel 3 Eyewitness News, the
CBS station in Hartford, CT. She was a
trusted journalist, a devoted mother
and wife, and a dear friend. Sadly,
Denise passed away suddenly on De-
cember 7, 2019. She will be remembered
for her tireless grace, integrity, and
humor.
Denise was born Washington, DC, and
grew up in Rockville, MD, where she
became editor-in-chief of her high
school newspaper. She attended Syra-
cuse University, where she got her first
break in television at WIXT-TV doing
the nightly weather forecast. Also at
Syracuse, she met the love of her life
and future husband, Wayne. After Syr-
acuse there were stops at television
stations in St. Louis and Cleveland, be-
fore moving to Connecticut in 1986 to
join WFSB.
In Connecticut, she provided special
coverage of political conventions, the
U.S. visit of Pope John the II, 9/11, the
arrest of the DC sniper, and the tragic
shootings at Sandy Hook Elementary
School. Denise had a passion for health
and medical reporting, taking viewers
inside operating rooms, cardiac cath-
eterization labs, and neonatal intensive
care units, as well as onboard Life
Star, the critical care helicopter serv-
ice. She was a leading voice in raising
awareness for conditions such as breast
cancer, heart disease, obesity, and pre-
ventive healthcare.
During her 33 year career at WFSB,
she was honored with 2 Edward R. Mur-
row Awards, 7 Associated Press
Awards, 11 Emmy’s, and a national Ga-
briel Award. She was recognized for her
work with a number of charities, in-
cluding the Muscular Dystrophy Asso-
ciation, Mary’s Place, and the Channel
3 Kids Camp. In 2013, Denise was elect-
ed to the Silver Circle by the National
Academy of Television Arts and
Sciences for her significant contribu-
tions to broadcasting. In 2015, she be-
came the first woman to be inducted
into the Connecticut Broadcasters As-
sociation Hall of Fame.
Connecticut has lost a broadcasting
legend. We all also lost a dear friend
who came into our homes with dignity
and decency to tell them the news of
the day. She was deeply dedicated to
uncovering and conveying the truth of
every story. She was there for almost
30 years to guide us through tragedy
and triumph, and we miss her im-
mensely.
My wife, Cynthia, and I extend our
deepest sympathies to Denise’s family
during this difficult time, particularly
to her husband, daughter, and cowork-
ers. May their many wonderful memo-
ries of Denise provide them solace and
comfort in the days ahead.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO DAN FREEDMAN
∑ Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
today I wish to recognize Dan Freed-
man on the occasion of his retirement.
Throughout his impressive 32 years as
a correspondent in the Hearst Wash-
ington Bureau, Dan set an example of
tireless, honest reporting. He under-
took the monumental task of covering
the Connecticut and New York delega-
tions with rigor and expertise. Even as
the media environment grows more
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.058 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7205
December 19, 2019
partisan, Dan has remained fair and
dedicated to the facts.
Dan has helped build an essential
professional foundation for countless
reporters, mentoring hundreds of new-
comers and interns and holding every-
one—including himself—to the highest
standards. Regarded with immense re-
spect by his colleagues, he routinely
challenged himself in order to set a
better example for his team and raise
the expectations for outstanding re-
porting.
In DC, legislators trust Dan to de-
liver a truthful and balanced story.
This integrity is essential for the peo-
ple of Connecticut who rely on report-
ers like Dan to inform them about the
Nation’s Capital with a focus on the
stories that matter most to them and
their communities. Constituents need
to know their voices are being heard,
and Dan is there to ask the tough ques-
tions and to deliver the most complete
and honest reporting possible.
During an over four-decade career in
journalism, Dan did it all—everything
from dodging bullets in wars and insur-
rections in Central America to cov-
ering eight Supreme Court confirma-
tion hearings and even a stint on the
George W. Bush Presidential campaign
in 2000. His unfailing commitment to
his profession was recognized in 2018,
when he won the David Lynch Memo-
rial Award for Regional Reporting.
Dan’s outstanding record of thought-
ful, honest, and determined reporting
sets a model and demonstrates the crit-
ical role of reporters in keeping people
throughout the country well informed.
I applaud his lifetime of dogged devo-
tion to bringing the truth to light
through fair, fact-filled pieces, and I
know my colleagues will join me in
thanking Dan for his extraordinary
contributions to regional reporting.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ROBERT GREENSTEIN
∑ Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I rise
today to recognize Robert Greenstein,
founder and president of the Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities, for his
work over nearly four decades, fighting
for a more just and equal society.
Bob founded CBPP in 1981 to push for
policies that expand opportunity for
the lowest income children and fami-
lies, and ensure that this country’s
prosperity is shared with the workers
who create it, not just the wealthiest
CEOs and the largest corporations. He
built CBPP from the ground up and
transformed it from a tiny organiza-
tion with a shoestring budget to one of
the most influential policy shapers in
the country.
Under Bob’s leadership, CBPP com-
bined in-depth analysis and research
with clear-headed strategy to drive the
debate and deliver results. We worked
together to spearhead efforts to perma-
nently expand the earned income tax
credit and child tax credit in 2015, and
Bob was vital to our success. It is prob-
ably the most important thing we have
done to life people out of poverty in the
last 25 years, and it could not have
happened without Bob’s leadership on
this issue, stretching back decades.
Of course it is not only tax credits;
from passing the Affordable Care Act
to strengthening SNAP, from pro-
tecting and expanding Medicaid, to
fighting for more affordable housing,
Bob’s work at CBPP has meant that
millions of ordinary Americans have
more food on the table, more money in
their pockets, and a little more eco-
nomic security. Over his career he has
touched so many lives, and he has so
much to be proud of.
We know we have a lot more work to
do, and while Bob has earned his retire-
ment, I have faith that he will con-
tinue to be a force for the progressive
change that our country needs.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CHARLOTTE
KINNOMAN
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Charlotte Kinnoman of Lake County
for her dedication to Montana’s first
responders during Christmas.
When Charlotte met a law enforce-
ment officer at an event with her fam-
ily, she learned of the sacrifices our
first responders make to protect Mon-
tana’s families and communities.
After that meeting, and at just 12
years old, Charlotte decided she wanted
to give back to our first responders.
She has been writing 125 Christmas
cards a day to give to every first re-
sponder she meets. She even has a goal
of writing 12,000 total. Charlotte’s mom
and classmates have also been helpful
in writing Christmas cards to make
sure they are spreading holiday cheer
all across Big Sky Country.
I commend Charlotte for her compas-
sion. Charlotte is a great role model for
all young Montanans, and I thank her
for supporting our first responders this
Christmas season.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO WERNER GELLERT
∑ Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, Werner
Gellert survived the Holocaust and
never forgot that terrible injustice.
Werner went on to found a museum in
Albuquerque dedicated not only to edu-
cating people about the Holocaust but
dedicated to stopping intolerance
wherever it is found.
Werner Gellert was born on June 14,
1926 in Breslau, Germany. During No-
vember 9 and 10, 1938, Nazi para-
military forces carried out a pogrom
throughout Germany demolishing and
ransacking Jewish homes, businesses,
synagogues, schools, and hospitals. At
that time, 267 synagogues in Germany
and surrounding areas and 7,000 Jewish
businesses were destroyed and over
30,000 Jewish men were arrested and in-
carcerated in concentration camps.
That pogrom was called Night of the
Broken Glass, or Kristallnacht, mean-
ing ‘‘Crystal Night,’’ because of all the
broken glass scattered throughout the
streets from the shattered windows of
Jewish buildings.
After the Night of the Broken Glass,
Werner and his adopted parents fled
Germany for Shanghai, one of the only
places in the world at that time that
accepted Jews unconditionally. How-
ever, the Japanese who were occupying
Shanghai became allied with the Ger-
mans, and, on February 18, 1943, they
issued a proclamation establishing a
restricted area where ‘‘stateless refu-
gees’’ must live and work. Werner and
his family were relocated to this re-
stricted area, Hongkew, which became
plagued with disease and starvation.
On one of his birthdays, Werner asked
only for a loaf of bread and jar of jam
for himself, but he didn’t get his wish.
During this period, he suffered through
starvation, typhus, yellow fever, and
hepatitis, and he was brutalized by a
bully and permanently lost most of the
sight in one of his eyes.
After the end of World War II, Werner
remained in Shanghai, working as a
typewriter repairman for the U.S.
Army. The Army recognized his intel-
ligence and linguistic skills—he spoke
seven languages—and recruited him
into Army intelligence as a civilian
consultant. He worked undercover for
the United States in China, Tibet, and
the Philippines.
The Chinese Cultural Revolution of
the late 1960s and early 1970s drove out
Werner and his family, and they fortu-
nately were able to escape on the last
boat out of Shanghai to the United
States. They relocated to Denver,
where Werner attended Denver Univer-
sity and met his future wife, Frances
Silverman—known as ‘‘Frankie’’—to
whom he was married for 54 years,
until her passing in 2007.
After a successful career in the sav-
ings and loan business in California,
Werner and Frankie retired to Albu-
querque. Werner fervently believed
that education was the most effective
weapon against hate and intolerance.
With that guiding principal in mind, in
2001, he and Frankie founded the Albu-
querque Holocaust and Intolerance Mu-
seum.
The museum is dedicated to edu-
cating the public through its exhibi-
tions on the horrors and injustices of
hate—from the Holocaust, to the Afri-
can-American experience here in the
United States to genocide of minority
peoples around the world. Its goal is to
promote ‘‘upstanders,’’ not bystanders:
people who speak out and act to sup-
port individuals, groups, or causes at-
tacked or bullied. The museum is home
to the Library of Remembrance, a com-
pilation of more than 4,500 books, docu-
ments, and videos about the injustice
of genocide, bullying, and intolerance.
As long as he was able, well into his
eighties, Werner spoke to school groups
at the museum and around the State
teaching them about his experience
during the Holocaust and as a refugee
in Shanghai. Werner took his own ter-
rible experience and set about to make
a better, more understanding, more
tolerant world for others. While we lost
Werner on November 9, 2019, at age 93,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.062 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7206 December 19, 2019
his commitment to ending genocide,
intolerance, and bullying will live on
through the Albuquerque Holocaust
and Intolerance Museum.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 9:32 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bills
S. 50. An act to authorize the Secretary of
the Interior to assess sanitation and safety
conditions at Bureau of Indian Affairs facili-
ties that were constructed to provide af-
fected Columbia River Treaty tribes access
to traditional fishing grounds and expend
funds on construction of facilities and struc-
tures to improve those conditions, and for
other purposes.
S. 216. An act to provide for equitable com-
pensation to the Spokane Tribe of Indians of
the Spokane Reservation for the use of tribal
land for the production of hydropower by the
Grand Coulee Dam, and for other purposes.
S. 256. An act to amend the Native Amer-
ican Programs Act of 1974 to provide flexi-
bility and reauthorization to ensure the sur-
vival and continuing vitality of Native
American languages.
S. 737. An act to direct the National
Science Foundation to support STEM edu-
cation research focused on early childhood.
H.R. 150. An act to modernize Federal
grant reporting, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1138. An act to reauthorize the West
Valley demonstration project, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 2333. An act to direct the Comptroller
General of the United States to conduct an
assessment of the responsibilities, workload,
and vacancy rates of Department of Veterans
Affairs suicide prevention coordinators, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 4566. An act to accelerate the income
tax benefits for charitable cash contribu-
tions for the relief of the families of victims
of the mass shooting in Virginia Beach, Vir-
ginia, on May 31, 2019.
The enrolled bills were subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
At 5:03 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bill:
S. 1790. An act to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and
for other purposes.
The enrolled bill was subsequently
signed by the Acting President pro
tempore (Mr. PORTMAN).
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bills were read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 397. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to create a Pension Re-
habilitation Trust Fund, to establish a Pen-
sion Rehabilitation Administration within
the Department of the Treasury to make
loans to multiemployer defined benefit
plans, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1759. An act to amend title III of the
Social Security Act to extend reemployment
services and eligibility assessments to all
claimants for unemployment benefits, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 4018. An act to provide that the
amount of time that an elderly offender
must serve before being eligible for place-
ment in home detention is to be reduced by
the amount of good time credits earned by
the prisoner, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
S. 3148. A bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act to list fentanyl-related sub-
stances as schedule I controlled substances.
f
ENROLLED BILLS PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, December 19, 2019, she
had presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bills:
S. 50. An act to authorize the Secretary of
the Interior to assess sanitation and safety
conditions at Bureau of Indian Affairs facili-
ties that were constructed to provide af-
fected Columbia River Treaty tribes access
to traditional fishing grounds and expend
funds on construction of facilities and struc-
tures to improve those conditions, and for
other purposes.
S. 216. An act to provide for equitable com-
pensation to the Spokane Tribe of Indians of
the Spokane Reservation for the use of tribal
land for the production of hydropower by the
Grand Coulee Dam, and for other purposes.
S. 256. An act to amend the Native Amer-
ican Programs Act of 1974 to provide flexi-
bility and reauthorization to ensure the sur-
vival and continuing vitality of Native
American languages.
S. 737. An act to direct the National
Science Foundation to support STEM edu-
cation research focused on early childhood.
S. 1790. An act to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and
for other purposes.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 7:42 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bills:
S. 151. An act to deter criminal robocall
violations and improve enforcement of sec-
tion 227(b) of the Communications Act of
1934, and for other purposes.
H.R. 777. An act to reauthorize programs
authorized under the Debbie Smith Act of
2004.
H.R. 1158. An act making consolidated ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1865. An act making further consoli-
dated appropriations for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 3196. An act to designate the Large
Synoptic Survey Telescope as the ‘‘Vera C.
Rubin Observatory’’.
The enrolled bills were subsequently
signed by the Acting President pro
tempore (Mr. HOEVEN).
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–3576. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulations Management Division,
Rural Development, Department of Agri-
culture, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Single Family
Housing Guaranteed Loan Program’’
(RIN0575–AD09) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on December 17, 2019;
to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–3577. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and
Reserve Affairs, performing the duties of the
Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel
and Readiness, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a review of mental health professionals
and challenges in recruiting and retaining,
to accompany the fiscal year 2020 Defense
Health Program budget submission; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–3578. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community
Eligibility’’ ((44 CFR Part 64) (Docket No.
FEMA–2019–0003)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on December 18,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–3579. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Office of Proceedings, Surface
Transportation Board, Department of Trans-
portation, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Limiting Exten-
sions of Trail Use Negotiating Periods; Rails-
To-Trails Conservancy—Petition for Rule-
making’’ ((RIN2140–AB42) (Docket No. EP 749
(Sub–No. 1))) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on December 13, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3580. A communication from the Attor-
ney, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Home-
land Security, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘2013 Liquid
Chemical Categorization Updates’’
((RIN1625–AB94) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0423)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on December 18, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–3581. A communication from the Gen-
eral Counsel, Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final Rule on
Public Utility Transmission Rate Changes to
Address Accumulated Deferred Income
Taxes’’ ((RIN1902–AF57) (Docket No. RM19–5–
000)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on December 18, 2019; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
EC–3582. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0118–2019–0125); to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–3583. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant General Counsel for Regu-
latory Affairs, Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Allocation of
Assets in Single-Employer Plans; Valuation
of Benefits and Assets; Expected Retirement
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.061 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7207
December 19, 2019
Age’’ (29 CFR Part 4044) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Decem-
ber 18, 2019; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–3584. A communication from the Board
Members, Railroad Retirement Board, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the Board’s Per-
formance and Accountability Report for fis-
cal year 2019, including the Office of Inspec-
tor General’s Auditor’s Report; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–3585. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development
Semiannual Report of the Inspector General
for the period from April 1, 2019 through Sep-
tember 30, 2019; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–3586. A joint communication from the
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Oper-
ating Officer of the Armed Forces Retire-
ment Home, transmitting, pursuant to law, a
report entitled ‘‘Armed Forces Retirement
Home Performance and Accountability Re-
port and Senior Medical Advisor Report for
Fiscal Year 2019’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–3587. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘An-
nual Report to Congress on Investigation,
Enforcement, and Implementation of the Sex
Offender Registration and Notification Act
Requirements’’; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petition or memorial
was laid before the Senate and was re-
ferred or ordered to lie on the table as
indicated:
POM–172. A petition from a citizen of the
State of Texas relative to immigration and
the English language; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
without amendment:
S. 496. A bill to preserve United States
fishing heritage through a national program
dedicated to training and assisting the next
generation of commercial fishermen, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–83).
By Mr. SHELBY, from the Committee on
Appropriations:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Further Revised
Allocation to Subcommittees of Budget To-
tals for Fiscal Year 2020’’ (Rept. No. 116–181).
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute:
S. 149. A bill to establish a Senior Scams
Prevention Advisory Council (Rept. No. 116–
182).
S. 893. A bill to require the President to de-
velop a strategy to ensure the security of
next generation mobile telecommunications
systems and infrastructure in the United
States and to assist allies and strategic part-
ners in maximizing the security of next gen-
eration mobile telecommunications systems,
infrastructure, and software, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–184).
S. 2166. A bill to designate Regional Ocean
Partnerships of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–185).
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Measuring the
Economic Impact of Broadband Act of 2019’’
(Rept. No. 116–186).
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Veterans Expe-
dited TSA Screening Safe Travel Act’’ (Rept.
No. 116–187).
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Special Report entitled ‘‘TSA Credential
and Endorsement Harmonization Act of
2019’’ (Rept. No. 116–188).
By Mr. HOEVEN, from the Committee on
Indian Affairs, with an amendment in the
nature of a substitute:
S. 886. A bill to amend the Omnibus Public
Land Management Act of 2009 to make the
Reclamation Water Settlements Fund per-
manent (Rept. No. 116–189).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, and Ms. STABENOW):
S. 3106. A bill to amend the Forest and
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning
Act of 1974 to promote reforestation fol-
lowing unplanned events on Federal land,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. HEINRICH:
S. 3107. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish a tax credit for
installation of regionally-significant electric
power transmission lines; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. JONES (for himself, Mr.
MORAN, and Mr. PERDUE):
S. 3108. A bill to amend the Federal De-
posit Insurance Act to provide that the con-
sumer transaction account deposits of an in-
sured depository institution are not consid-
ered to be funds obtained by or through a de-
posit broker, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Mr. HEINRICH:
S. 3109. A bill to require the Federal En-
ergy Regulatory Commission to initiate a
rulemaking to reform the interregional
transmission planning process, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mr. TILLIS:
S. 3110. A bill to direct the Comptroller
General of the United States to conduct a
study on disability and pension benefits pro-
vided to members of the National Guard and
members of reserve components of the
Armed Forces by the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. PERDUE (for himself, Mr.
JONES, and Mr. MORAN):
S. 3111. A bill to amend the Federal De-
posit Insurance Act to exclude affiliates and
subsidiaries of insured depository institu-
tions from the definition of deposit broker,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr.
BRAUN):
S. 3112. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand and improve
health savings accounts, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. TESTER:
S. 3113. A bill to provide for the settlement
of the water rights claims of the Fort
Belknap Indian Community, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Indian Af-
fairs.
By Mr. ENZI:
S. 3114. A bill to require that all institu-
tions of higher education participating in
student financial assistance programs under
title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965
meet certain revenue requirements; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, and Mr. ROMNEY):
S. 3115. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide for comprehen-
sive student achievement information; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
JONES, Ms. MCSALLY, and Mr. MENEN-
DEZ):
S. 3116. A bill to enable States to better
provide access to whole genome sequencing
clinical services for certain undiagnosed
children under the Medicaid program, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HIRONO, and Ms.
ROSEN):
S. 3117. A bill to create dedicated funds to
conserve butterflies in North America,
plants in the Pacific Islands, freshwater
mussels in the United States, and desert fish
in the Southwest United States, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 3118. A bill to establish a unified data-
base and public reporting for purposes of
tracking and evaluating domestic terrorism
incidents, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 3119. A bill to modify the boundary of
the Casa Grande Ruins National Monument,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 3120. A bill to reauthorize the Yuma
Crossing National Heritage Area; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 3121. A bill to establish the Chiricahua
National Park in the State of Arizona as a
unit of the National Park System, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Ms. MCSALLY:
S. 3122. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to submit to Congress an an-
nual report on suicide among veterans, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 3123. A bill to amend the Home Owners’
Loan Act with respect to the registration
and supervision of insurance savings and
loan holding companies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and
Mr. MARKEY):
S. 3124. A bill to improve passenger vessel
security and safety, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.066 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7208 December 19, 2019
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL:
S. 3125. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow for contributions
to the Alzheimer’s Research and Caregiving
Trust Fund, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mr. UDALL,
Mr. TESTER, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, and
Ms. WARREN):
S. 3126. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to authorize a special behavioral
health program for Indians; to the Com-
mittee on Indian Affairs.
By Ms. SINEMA:
S. 3127. A bill to protect, for current and
future generations, the watershed, eco-
system, and cultural heritage of the Grand
Canyon region in the State of Arizona, to
provide for a study relating to the uranium
stockpile in the United States, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and
Mr. INHOFE):
S. 3128. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to reorganize the Chaplain
Service of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr. ENZI,
Mr. BURR, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. TILLIS,
and Mr. RISCH):
S. 3129. A bill to provide for certain re-
forms with respect to the Medicare program
under title XVIII of the Social Security Act,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. PAUL:
S. 3130. A bill to amend titles 10 and 18, to
permit members of the Armed Forces to pos-
sess firearms on military installations in ac-
cordance with applicable State law, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr.
UDALL, and Mr. RISCH):
S. 3131. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
the Interior to establish a Maya Security
and Conservation Partnership program, to
authorize appropriations for that program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 3132. A bill to extend the Undertaking
Spam, Spyware, And Fraud Enforcement
With Enforcers beyond Borders Act of 2006,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. BRAUN:
S. 3133. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to establish a time-
limited conditional approval pathway, sub-
ject to specific obligations, for certain drugs,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr.
DURBIN):
S. 3134. A bill to add Ireland to the E–3
nonimmigrant visa program; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MARKEY:
S. 3135. A bill to provide for the establish-
ment of clean technology consortia to en-
hance the economic, environmental, and en-
ergy security of the United States by pro-
moting domestic development, manufacture,
and deployment of clean technologies, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 3136. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish small business
start-up savings accounts; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. CRAMER, and Mr.
BRAUN):
S. 3137. A bill to amend titles XIX and XXI
of the Social Security Act to require hos-
pitals and certain other participating pro-
viders under Medicaid or the Children’s
Health Insurance Program to disclose the
provider’s policy on parental access to the
medical records of minors, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. HAWLEY,
Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. CRAMER, and Mr.
BRAUN):
S. 3138. A bill to amend titles XIX and XXI
of the Social Security Act to require hos-
pitals and certain other participating pro-
viders under Medicaid or the Children’s
Health Insurance Program to disclose the
provider’s policy on parental consent from
the provision, withdrawal, or denial of life-
sustaining treatment for minors, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. CRAPO,
and Mr. CRUZ):
S. 3139. A bill to amend chapter 44 of title
18, United States Code, to more comprehen-
sively address the interstate transportation
of firearms or ammunition; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. ROMNEY,
Mr. DAINES, and Mr. JOHNSON):
S. 3140. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Interior to issue a final rule relating to
the delisting of the gray wolf under the En-
dangered Species Act of 1973; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 3141. A bill to amend the Bill Emerson
Good Samaritan Food Donation Act to clar-
ify and expand food donation, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mr.
JOHNSON):
S. 3142. A bill to establish the Interagency
United States-Based Terrorism Threat Infor-
mation Sharing Commission, and for other
purposes; to the Select Committee on Intel-
ligence.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL:
S. 3143. A bill to ban certain rare earth
magnets, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mr.
PERDUE, Mr. GRAHAM, and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 3144. A bill to establish a competitive
grant program to support out-of-school-time
youth workforce readiness programs, pro-
viding employability skills development, ca-
reer exploration, employment readiness
training, mentoring, work-based learning,
and workforce opportunities for eligible
youth; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions .
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 3145. A bill to extend the withdrawal and
reservation of certain public land in the
State of Nevada for the continued use of the
Nevada test and training range, to designate
certain land in the Desert National Wildlife
Refuge as wilderness, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. BOOKER,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. SMITH, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. WARNER, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. COONS, Mr. KAINE, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. SANDERS, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
REED, and Mr. KING):
S. 3146. A bill to ensure a fair process for
negotiations of collective bargaining agree-
ments under chapter 71 of title 5, United
States Code; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself and Mrs.
CAPITO):
S. 3147. A bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress re-
ports on patient safety and quality of care at
medical centers of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, and for other purposes; consid-
ered and passed.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mr.
COTTON, Mr. CASSIDY, Mrs. BLACK-
BURN, Ms. ERNST, Mr. BRAUN, Mr.
ALEXANDER, Mr. MCCONNELL, and Mr.
LANKFORD):
S. 3148. A bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act to list fentanyl-related sub-
stances as schedule I controlled substances;
read the first time.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and
Mr. COONS):
S. Res. 458. A resolution calling for the
global repeal of blasphemy, heresy, and apos-
tasy laws; to the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations.
By Mr. MCCONNELL:
S. Res. 459. A resolution to constitute the
majority party’s membership on certain
committees for the One Hundred Sixteenth
Congress, or until their successors are cho-
sen; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S. Res. 460. A resolution congratulating the
American Geophysical Union on the occasion
of its centennial; considered and agreed to.
By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and
Mrs. MURRAY):
S. Res. 461. A resolution congratulating Se-
attle Sounders FC on winning the 2019 Major
League Soccer Cup; considered and agreed
to.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms.
MCSALLY, Ms. SMITH, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
KING, Mr. CASEY, and Mr. PETERS):
S. Res. 462. A resolution designating Janu-
ary 2020 as ‘‘National One Health Awareness
Month’’ to promote awareness of organiza-
tions focused on public health, animal
health, and environmental health collabora-
tion throughout the United States and to
recognize the critical contributions of those
organizations to the future of the United
States; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 182
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mr. SASSE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 182, a bill to prohibit discrimina-
tion against the unborn on the basis of
sex, and for other purposes.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
names of the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. MCCONNELL) and the Senator from
Wyoming (Mr. BARRASSO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 460, a bill to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to
extend the exclusion for employer-pro-
vided education assistance to employer
payments of student loans.
S. 481
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
his name was added as a cosponsor of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.055 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7209
December 19, 2019
S. 481, a bill to encourage States to re-
quire the installation of residential
carbon monoxide detectors in homes,
and for other purposes.
S. 500
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. PERDUE) and the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 500, a bill to amend
title 54, United States Code, to estab-
lish, fund, and provide for the use of
amounts in a National Park Service
Legacy Restoration Fund to address
the maintenance backlog of the Na-
tional Park Service, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 604
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
604, a bill to limit the authority of
States to tax certain income of em-
ployees for employment duties per-
formed in other States.
S. 614
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from Montana (Mr.
DAINES) was added as a cosponsor of S.
614, a bill to direct the Secretary of the
Interior to reissue a final rule relating
to removing the Greater Yellowstone
Ecosystem population of grizzly bears
from the Federal list of endangered and
threatened wildlife.
S. 712
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 712, a bill to provide as-
sistance for United States citizens and
nationals taken hostage or unlawfully
or wrongfully detained abroad, and for
other purposes.
S. 800
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 800, a bill to establish a postsec-
ondary student data system.
S. 877
At the request of Mr. UDALL, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
877, a bill to prohibit the sale of shark
fins, and for other purposes.
S. 944
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 944, a bill to enhance the security
operations of the Transportation Secu-
rity Administration and the stability
of the transportation security work-
force by applying a unified personnel
system under title 5, United States
Code, to employees of the Transpor-
tation Security Administration who
are responsible for screening pas-
sengers and property, and for other
purposes.
S. 1125
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1125, a bill to amend the Health
Insurance Portability and Account-
ability Act.
S. 1267
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1267, a bill to establish within
the Smithsonian Institution the Na-
tional Museum of the American
Latino, and for other purposes.
S. 1374
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1374, a bill to amend
title II of the Social Security Act to
eliminate the waiting periods for dis-
ability insurance benefits and Medicare
coverage for individuals with meta-
static breast cancer, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1527
At the request of Mr. KING, his name
was added as a cosponsor of S. 1527, a
bill to require the Secretary of Trans-
portation to conduct, and submit to
Congress a report describing the re-
sults of, an assessment of the total
amount of nonhighway recreational
fuel taxes received by the Secretary of
the Treasury and transferred to the
Highway Trust Fund, and for other
purposes.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN), the Senator from
New York (Mr. SCHUMER) and the Sen-
ator from Michigan (Ms. STABENOW)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1590, a
bill to amend the State Department
Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to author-
ize rewards for thwarting wildlife traf-
ficking linked to transnational orga-
nized crime, and for other purposes.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mr. MANCHIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1757, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively,
to the United States Army Rangers
Veterans of World War II in recogni-
tion of their extraordinary service dur-
ing World War II.
S. 1762
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1762, a bill to amend the Foreign
Agents Registration Act of 1938 to pro-
vide the Attorney General with greater
authority to promote enforcement and
disclosure requirements for agents of
foreign principals, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1766
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) and the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1766, a bill to
implement policies to end preventable
maternal, newborn, and child deaths
globally.
S. 1781
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1781, a bill to authorize
appropriations for the Department of
State for fiscal years 2020 through 2022
to provide assistance to El Salvador,
Guatemala, and Honduras through bi-
lateral compacts to increase protection
of women and children in their homes
and communities and reduce female
homicides, domestic violence, and sex-
ual assault.
S. 1820
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) and
the Senator from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1820, a
bill to improve the integrity and safety
of horseracing by requiring a uniform
anti-doping and medication control
program to be developed and enforced
by an independent Horseracing Anti-
Doping and Medication Control Au-
thority.
S. 1908
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1908, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to improve the efficiency of summer
meals.
S. 2322
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2322, a bill to amend the
Animal Welfare Act to allow for the re-
tirement of certain animals used in
Federal research.
S. 2330
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2330, a bill to amend the
Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur
Sports Act to provide for congressional
oversight of the board of directors of
the United States Olympic and
Paralympic Committee and to protect
amateur athletes from emotional,
physical, and sexual abuse, and for
other purposes.
S. 2379
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2379, a bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to clarify the au-
thority of State Medicaid fraud and
abuse control units to investigate and
prosecute cases of Medicaid patient
abuse and neglect in any setting, and
for other purposes.
S. 2381
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2381, a bill to require re-
view by the Government Account-
ability Office of screening protocols of
the Transportation Security Adminis-
tration relating to breast milk and for-
mula, and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.067 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7210 December 19, 2019
S. 2469
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2469, a bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to require the use of ad-
vanced leak detection technology for
pipelines, and for other purposes.
S. 2491
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2491, a bill to terminate
certain rules issued by the Secretary of
the Interior and the Secretary of Com-
merce relating to endangered and
threatened species, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2549
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2549, a bill to allow nonprofit child care
providers to participate in the loan
programs of the Small Business Admin-
istration.
S. 2556
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2556, a bill to amend the Federal Power
Act to provide energy cybersecurity in-
vestment incentives, to establish a
grant and technical assistance program
for cybersecurity investments, and for
other purposes.
S. 2570
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2570, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Greg
LeMond in recognition of his service to
the United States as an athlete, activ-
ist, role model, and community leader.
S. 2590
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
names of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mr. SASSE) and the Senator from
South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2590, a bill to pro-
tect the dignity of fetal remains, and
for other purposes.
S. 2695
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
names of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Mr. JOHNSON) and the Senator from
Michigan (Mr. PETERS) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2695, a bill to authorize
the Secretary of Agriculture to provide
for the defense of United States agri-
culture and food through the National
Bio and Agro-Defense Facility, and for
other purposes.
S. 2702
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2702, a bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish an integrated en-
ergy systems research, development,
and demonstration program, and for
other purposes.
S. 2741
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator from
North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2741, a bill to amend
title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to expand access to telehealth services,
and for other purposes.
S. 2743
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2743, a bill to establish
the China Censorship Monitor and Ac-
tion Group, and for other purposes.
S. 2745
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mr. SASSE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2745, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to prohibit dis-
crimination by abortion against an un-
born child on the basis of Down syn-
drome.
S. 2748
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2748, a bill to repeal the
section of the Middle Class Tax Relief
and Job Creation Act of 2012 that re-
quires the Federal Communications
Commission to reallocate and auction
the T-Band spectrum.
S. 2766
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2766, a bill to support and
expand civic engagement and political
leadership of adolescent girls around
the world, and other purposes.
S. 2831
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2831, a bill to
amend title 51, United States Code, to
modify the national space grant col-
lege and fellowship program, and for
other purposes.
S. 2836
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2836, a bill to prohibit the
Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices from taking any action to imple-
ment, enforce, or otherwise give effect
to the final rule, entitled ‘‘Protecting
Statutory Conscience Rights in Health
Care; Delegations of Authority’’.
S. 2886
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2886, a bill to prohibit the use of
animal testing for cosmetics and the
sale of cosmetics tested on animals.
S. 2943
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2943, a bill to amend ti-
tles XVIII and XIX of the Social Secu-
rity Act to revise minimum nurse
staffing requirements for skilled nurs-
ing facilities under the Medicare pro-
gram and for nursing facilities under
the Medicaid program, and for other
purposes.
S. 2970
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2970, a bill to improve the
fielding of newest generations of per-
sonal protective equipment to the
Armed Forces, and for other purposes.
S. 2974
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2974, a bill to require the
Postmaster General to establish a com-
prehensive organizational strategy to
combat the use of the mail in the dis-
tribution of illicit drugs.
S. 3004
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3004, a bill to protect human
rights and enhance opportunities for
LGBTI people around the world, and
for other purposes.
S. 3016
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
names of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mr. SASSE) and the Senator from
Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE) were added as
cosponsors of S. 3016, a bill to amend
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act to ensure that consumers can
make informed decisions in choosing
between meat products such as beef
and imitation meat products, and for
other purposes.
S. 3020
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3020, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to authorize the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter
into contracts with States or to award
grants to States to promote health and
wellness, prevent suicide, and improve
outreach to veterans, and for other
purposes.
S. 3055
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 3055, a bill to amend the High-
er Education Act of 1965 to permit a
Federal student loan borrower to elect
to terminate repayment pursuant to
income-based repayment and repay
such loan under any other repayment
plan for which the borrower is other-
wise eligible.
S. 3062
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN), the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. REED) and the Senator from
Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 3062, a bill to amend
the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal
a certain exemption for hydraulic frac-
turing, and for other purposes.
S. 3104
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:11 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.069 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7211
December 19, 2019
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3104, a bill to make technical cor-
rections relating to parental leave for
Federal employees.
S.J. RES. 6
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. BENNET), the Senator from
Connecticut (Mr. MURPHY), the Senator
from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO), the Senator
from Michigan (Mr. PETERS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
SMITH), the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN), the Senator from
New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER), the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ), the
Senator from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO), the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN), the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) and the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) were
added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 6, a
joint resolution removing the deadline
for the ratification of the equal rights
amendment.
S. RES. 73
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 73, a resolution call-
ing on the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to
immediately release Saudi Women’s
Rights activists and respect the funda-
mental rights of all Saudi citizens.
S. RES. 452
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 452, a resolution
commemorating and supporting the
goals of World AIDS Day.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
JONES, Ms. MCSALLY, and Mr.
MENENDEZ):
S. 3116. A bill to enable States to bet-
ter provide access to whole genome se-
quencing clinical services for certain
undiagnosed children under the Med-
icaid program, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Finance.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I rise
today to introduce the Ending the Di-
agnostic Odyssey Act. This legislation
gives States the option of providing
whole genome sequencing WSG clinical
services through Medicaid for children
with a disease that is suspected to have
a genetic cause, at an enhanced Fed-
eral matching rate for 3 years. I am
pleased to be joined by Senators JONES,
MCSALLY, and MENENDEZ.
Children with rare diseases will spend
on average 5 to 7 years on diagnostic
odyssey, and 30 percent of those chil-
dren will not survive beyond the age of
5 years old. The average patient sees
seven different physicians in that time.
The wait to find a cause—nevermind a
cure—can be excruciating. Parents try
to project a calm and reassuring pres-
ence for their child while facing a
whirlwind of doctor appointments, hos-
pital visits, and unanswered questions.
Undeniably, we are making progress
in both accelerating research funding
for rare diseases as well as in the devel-
opment of diagnostics. In 2014, the Na-
tional Institutes of Health, NIH
launched a program called the
Undiagnosed Disease Network UDN. In
its first 20 months, the UDN accepted
601 participants undiagnosed by tradi-
tional medical practices. Of those who
completed their UDN evaluation during
this time, 35 percent were given a diag-
nosis. Many of these diagnoses were
rare genetic diseases, including 31 pre-
viously unknown syndromes.
In May, the Director of the National
Institutes of Health, Dr. Francis Col-
lins, wrote a blog post on how whole
genome sequencing—combined with ar-
tificial intelligence, AI—can now be
used to diagnose genetic diseases in se-
riously ill babies in fewer than 24
hours. Dr. Collins writes: ‘‘I would sub-
mit that there is no other technology
in the history of planet Earth that has
experienced this degree of progress in
speed and affordability.’’
For parents of children with an
undiagnosed illness, answers cannot
come soon enough. There are approxi-
mately 7,000 rare diseases known
today. Approximately 80 percent of
rare diseases are genetic, and about
one-half of all rare diseases affect chil-
dren. For example, Alström syndrome
is an extremely rare and complex ge-
netic disorder. Approximately 1,200 af-
fected individuals have been identified
worldwide, which makes a obtaining a
correct diagnosis challenging. Charac-
teristics of Alström syndrome include
vision disturbances, sensorineural
hearing impairment, cardiomyopathy,
obesity, kidney dysfunction, and diabe-
tes.
Robin Marshall, executive director of
the Alström Syndrome International,
located in Mount Desert Islanas, ME,
has said that ‘‘whole Genome Sequenc-
ing has changed the lives of those we
represent by enabling earlier and more
accurate diagnosis, fostering more
timely and appropriate medical care,
and unlocking a host of social services
to combat the educational and psycho-
social complications that our children
confront.’’
By giving States an incentive to pro-
vide whole genome sequencing for eli-
gible children through Medicaid my
legislation will ensure that more chil-
dren and their families can obtain the
right diagnosis and treatment the
start. The Ending the Diagnostic Odys-
sey Act has the support of more than
100 patient advocacy organizations, in-
cluding Alström Syndrome Inter-
national, the Genetic Alliance, the Per-
sonalized Medicine Coalition, and
many others. I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself
and Mrs. CAPITO):
S. 3147. A bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to submit to
Congress reports on patient safety and
quality of care at medical centers of
the Department of Veterans Affairs,
and for other purposes; considered and
passed.
S. 3147
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Improving
Safety and Security for Veterans Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS RE-
PORTS ON PATIENT SAFETY AND
QUALITY OF CARE.
(a) REPORT ON PATIENT SAFETY AND QUAL-
ITY OF CARE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of
the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs of the House of Representatives a re-
port regarding the policies and procedures of
the Department relating to patient safety
and quality of care and the steps that the
Department has taken to make improve-
ments in patient safety and quality of care
at medical centers of the Department.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A description of the policies and proce-
dures of the Department and improvements
made by the Department with respect to the
following:
(i) How often the Department reviews or
inspects patient safety at medical centers of
the Department.
(ii) What triggers the aggregated review
process at medical centers of the Depart-
ment.
(iii) What controls the Department has in
place for controlled and other high-risk sub-
stances, including the following:
(I) Access to such substances by staff.
(II) What medications are dispensed via au-
tomation.
(III) What systems are in place to ensure
proper matching of the correct medication
to the correct patient.
(IV) Controls of items such as medication
carts and pill bottles and vials.
(V) Monitoring of the dispensing of medi-
cation within medical centers of the Depart-
ment, including monitoring of unauthorized
dispensing.
(iv) How the Department monitors contact
between patients and employees of the De-
partment, including how employees are mon-
itored and tracked at medical centers of the
Department when entering and exiting the
room of a patient.
(v) How comprehensively the Department
uses video monitoring systems in medical
centers of the Department to enhance pa-
tient safety, security, and quality of care.
(vi) How the Department tracks and re-
ports deaths at medical centers of the De-
partment at the local level, Veterans Inte-
grated Service Network level, and national
level.
(vii) The procedures of the Department to
alert local, regional, and Department-wide
leadership when there is a statistically ab-
normal number of deaths at a medical center
of the Department, including—
(I) the manner and frequency in which such
alerts are made; and
(II) what is included in such an alert, such
as the nature of death and where within the
medical center the death occurred.
(viii) The use of root cause analyses with
respect to patient deaths in medical centers
of the Department, including—
(I) what threshold triggers a root cause
analysis for a patient death;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:11 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.071 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7212 December 19, 2019
(II) who conducts the root cause analysis;
and
(III) how root cause analyses determine
whether a patient death is suspicious or not.
(ix) What triggers a patient safety alert,
including how many suspicious deaths cause
a patient safety alert to be triggered.
(x) The situations in which an autopsy re-
port is ordered for deaths at hospitals of the
Department, including an identification of—
(I) when the medical examiner is called to
review a patient death; and
(II) the official or officials that decide such
a review is necessary.
(xi) The method for family members of a
patient who died at a medical center of the
Department to request an investigation into
that death.
(xii) The opportunities that exist for fam-
ily members of a patient who died at a med-
ical center of the Department to request an
autopsy for that death.
(xiii) The methods in place for employees
of the Department to report suspicious
deaths at medical centers of the Department.
(xiv) The steps taken by the Department if
an employee of the Department is suspected
to be implicated in a suspicious death at a
medical center of the Department, includ-
ing—
(I) actions to remove or suspend that indi-
vidual from patient care or temporarily reas-
sign that individual and the speed at which
that action occurs; and
(II) steps taken to ensure that other med-
ical centers of the Department and other
non-Department medical centers are aware
of the suspected role of the individual in a
suspicious death.
(xv) In the case of the suspicious death of
an individual while under care at a medical
center of the Department, the methods used
by the Department to inform the family
members of that individual.
(xvi) The policy of the Department for
communicating to the public when a sus-
picious death occurs at a medical center of
the Department.
(B) A description of any additional au-
thorities or resources needed from Congress
to implement any of the actions, changes to
policy, or other matters included in the re-
port required under paragraph (1)
(b) REPORT ON DEATHS AT LOUIS A. JOHNSON
MEDICAL CENTER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date on which the Attorney Gen-
eral indicates that any investigation or trial
related to the suspicious deaths of veterans
at the Louis A. Johnson VA Medical Center
in Clarksburg, West Virginia, (in this sub-
section referred to as the ‘‘Facility’’) that
occurred during 2017 and 2018 has sufficiently
concluded, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives a report describing—
(A) the events that occurred during that
period related to those suspicious deaths;
and
(B) actions taken at the Facility and
throughout the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs to prevent any similar reoccurrence of
the issues that contributed to those sus-
picious deaths.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A timeline of events that occurred at
the Facility relating to the suspicious deaths
described in paragraph (1) beginning the mo-
ment those deaths were first determined to
be suspicious, including any notifications
to—
(i) leadership of the Facility;
(ii) leadership of the Veterans Integrated
Service Network in which the Facility is lo-
cated;
(iii) leadership at the central office of the
Department; and
(iv) the Office of the Inspector General of
the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(B) A description of the actions taken by
leadership of the Facility, the Veterans Inte-
grated Service Network in which the Facil-
ity is located, and the central office of the
Department in response to the suspicious
deaths, including responses to notifications
under subparagraph (A).
(C) A description of the actions, including
root cause analyses, autopsies, or other ac-
tivities that were conducted after each of the
suspicious deaths.
(D) A description of the changes made by
the Department since the suspicious deaths
to procedures to control access within med-
ical centers of the Department to controlled
and non-controlled substances to prevent
harm to patients.
(E) A description of the changes made by
the Department to its nationwide controlled
substance and non-controlled substance poli-
cies as a result of the suspicious deaths.
(F) A description of the changes planned or
made by the Department to its video surveil-
lance at medical centers of the Department
to improve patient safety and quality of care
in response to the suspicious deaths.
(G) An analysis of the review of sentinel
events conducted at the Facility in response
to the suspicious deaths and whether that re-
view was conducted consistent with policies
and procedures of the Department.
(H) A description of the steps the Depart-
ment has taken or will take to improve the
monitoring of the credentials of employees
of the Department to ensure the validity of
those credentials, including all employees
that interact with patients in the provision
of medical care.
(I) A description of the steps the Depart-
ment has taken or will take to monitor and
mitigate the behavior of employee bad ac-
tors, including those who attempt to conceal
their mistreatment of veteran patients.
(J) A description of the steps the Depart-
ment has taken or will take to enhance or
create new monitoring systems that—
(i) automatically collect and analyze data
from medical centers of the Department and
monitor for warnings signs or unusual health
patterns that may indicate a health safety
or quality problem at a particular medical
center; and
(ii) automatically share those warnings
with other medical centers of the Depart-
ment, relevant Veterans Integrated Service
Networks, and officials of the central office
of the Department.
(K) A description of the accountability ac-
tions that have been taken at the Facility to
remove or discipline employees who signifi-
cantly participated in the actions that con-
tributed to the suspicious deaths.
(L) A description of the system-wide re-
porting process that the Department will or
has implemented to ensure that relevant em-
ployees are properly reported, when applica-
ble, to the National Practitioner Data Bank
of the Department of Health and Human
Services, the applicable State licensing
boards, the Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion, and other relevant entities.
(M) A description of any additional au-
thorities or resources needed from Congress
to implement any of the recommendations
or findings included in the report required
under paragraph (1).
(N) Such other matters as the Secretary
considers necessary.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself,
Mr. COTTON, Mr. CASSIDY, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
BRAUN, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr.
MCCONNELL, and Mr.
LANKFORD):
S. 3148. A bill to amend the Con-
trolled Substances Act to list fentanyl-
related substances as schedule I con-
trolled substances; read the first time.
S. 3148
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Stopping
Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogues Act’’.
SEC. 2. FENTANYL-RELATED SUBSTANCES.
Section 202(c) of the Controlled Substances
Act (21 U.S.C. 812) is amended—
(1) by adding at the end of subsection (b) of
Schedule I the following:
‘‘(23) Isobutyryl fentanyl.
‘‘(24) Para-Methoxybutyrylfentanyl.
‘‘(25) Valeryl fentanyl.
‘‘(26) Cyclopentyl fentanyl.
‘‘(27) Para-Chloroisobutyryl fentanyl.’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end of Schedule I the
following:
‘‘(e)(1) Unless specifically exempted or un-
less listed in another schedule, any material,
compound, mixture, or preparation which
contains any quantity of fentanyl-related
substances, or which contains their salts,
isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the
existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of
isomers is possible within the specific chem-
ical designation.
‘‘(2) In paragraph (1), the term ‘fentanyl-re-
lated substances’ includes the following:
‘‘(A) Any substance that is structurally re-
lated to fentanyl by one or more of the fol-
lowing modifications:
‘‘(i) By replacement of the phenyl portion
of the phenethyl group by any monocycle,
whether or not further substituted in or on
the monocycle.
‘‘(ii) By substitution in or on the
phenethyl group with alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy,
hydroxy, halo, haloalkyl, amino or nitro
groups.
‘‘(iii) By substitution in or on the piper-
idine ring with alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, ester,
ether, hydroxy, halo, haloalkyl, amino or
nitro groups.
‘‘(iv) By replacement of the aniline ring
with any aromatic monocycle whether or not
further substituted in or on the aromatic
monocycle.
‘‘(v) By replacement of the N-propionyl
group by another acyl group.
‘‘(B) 4′-Methyl acetyl fentanyl.
‘‘(C) Crotonyl fentanyl.
‘‘(D) 2′-Fluoro ortho-fluorofentanyl.
‘‘(E) Ortho-Methyl acetylfentanyl.
‘‘(F) Thiofuranyl fentanyl.
‘‘(G) Ortho-Fluorobutyryl fentanyl.
‘‘(H) Ortho-Fluoroacryl fentanyl.
‘‘(I) Beta-Methyl fentanyl.
‘‘(J) Phenyl fentanyl.
‘‘(K) Para-Methylfentanyl.
‘‘(L) Beta′-Phenyl fentanyl.
‘‘(M) Benzodioxole fentanyl.’’.
This act shall take effect one day after the
date of enactment.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 458—CALL-
ING FOR THE GLOBAL REPEAL
OF BLASPHEMY, HERESY, AND
APOSTASY LAWS
Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and Mr.
COONS) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:16 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.086 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7213
December 19, 2019
S. RES. 458
Whereas Article 18 of the International
Declaration of Human Rights states that
‘‘[e]veryone has the right to freedom of
thought, conscience and religion; this right
includes freedom to change his religion or
belief, and freedom, either alone or in com-
munity with others and in public or private,
to manifest his religion or belief in teaching,
practice, worship and observance’’;
Whereas many countries continue to have
criminal blasphemy laws and punish people
who engage in expression deemed by the gov-
ernment to be blasphemous, heretical, apos-
tate, defamatory of religion, or insulting to
religion or to religious symbols, figures, or
feelings, and such punishment can include
fines, imprisonment, and capital punishment
including by beheading;
Whereas blasphemy laws have affected
Christians, Muslims, Hindus, Baha’i,
secularists, and many other groups, are in-
consistent with international human rights
standards because they establish and pro-
mote official religious orthodoxy and dogma
over individual liberty, and often result in
violations of the freedoms of religion,
thought, and expression that are protected
under international instruments, including
Articles 18 and 19 of the International Cov-
enant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR);
Whereas the United Nations Human Rights
Committee stated in General Comment 34
that ‘‘[p]rohibitions of displays of lack of re-
spect for a religion or other belief system,
including blasphemy laws, are incompatible
with the [ICCPR].’’;
Whereas the United States Commission on
International Religious Freedom (USCIRF)
has found that blasphemy charges are often
based on false accusations, are used for sec-
tarian or political purposes, and foster reli-
gious intolerance, discrimination, and vio-
lence;
Whereas USCIRF has found that at least 70
countries had blasphemy laws as of 2018;
Whereas these laws were present in 18 Mid-
dle East and North African countries, 8 coun-
tries in the Americas, 18 Asia-Pacific coun-
tries, 14 European countries, and 12 Sub-Sa-
haran African countries;
Whereas the Pew Research Center found
that countries with laws against blasphemy,
apostasy, or defamation of religion were
more likely to have severe governmental re-
strictions on religion, and to experience so-
cial hostilities based on religion, than coun-
tries that did not have such laws;
Whereas restrictive laws beyond those pe-
nalizing blasphemy, heresy, and apostasy
further limit religious freedom, such as ex-
tremism laws—
(1) in Russia that have been used to ban Je-
hovah’s Witnesses as an extremist organiza-
tion and fueled persecution of this religious
group;
(2) in China, to arbitrarily detain an esti-
mated 800,000 to 2,000,000 Uighur Muslims in
internment camps because they followed Is-
lamic rituals and practices; and
(3) in North Korea, to detain an estimated
50,000 to 70,000 Christians in labor camps be-
cause they followed the tenets of Christi-
anity;
Whereas an international group of experts
convened by the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights rec-
ommended in 2012 that ‘‘[s]tates that have
blasphemy laws should repeal the[m] as such
laws have a stifling impact on the enjoyment
of freedom of religion or belief and healthy
dialogue and debate about religion.’’;
Whereas blasphemy laws are inconsistent
with United Nations resolutions adopted by
consensus since 2011 recognizing that reli-
gious intolerance is best fought through
positive measures, such as education, out-
reach, and counter-speech, and that crim-
inalization of speech is warranted only for
the prevention of imminent violence;
Whereas, according to the annual religious
freedom report published by the Department
of State in 2015, attackers in Bangladesh
killed five allegedly anti-Islamic or
secularist writers and publishers, and injured
three others;
Whereas, in response to these killings, the
Home Minister of Bangladesh, rather than
condemning the murders, called on bloggers
and others to refrain from writings that
could hurt the religious feelings of others
and added that violators of the warning
would be subject to prosecution under the re-
strictive religious freedom laws of Ban-
gladesh;
Whereas a 2016 report by USCIRF on Ban-
gladesh found that religious and civil society
groups fear that increasing religious extre-
mism will result in more criminal attacks
and threats;
Whereas restrictive religious freedom laws
validate and promote social violence tar-
geted at religious minorities and dissenters,
whether Christian, Muslim, secularist, or
other;
Whereas USCIRF has found that in Paki-
stan, blasphemy laws have been used to pros-
ecute and persecute Muslims, Christians,
secularists, and others;
Whereas, according to a Pew Center report
on religion and public life, Pakistan stands
out for having one of the highest levels of re-
strictions on religion when both government
restrictions and social hostilities are taken
into account;
Whereas USCIRF has found egregious ex-
amples of the enforcement of blasphemy
laws and vigilante violence connected to
blasphemy allegations in Pakistan, where
blasphemy charges are common and numer-
ous individuals are in prison, with a high
percentage sentenced to death or to life in
prison;
Whereas, as of May 2018, USCIRF was
aware of approximately 40 individuals on
death row for blasphemy in Pakistan or serv-
ing life sentences;
Whereas Asia Bibi was sentenced to death
for blasphemy in 2010 and was held on death
row for 8 years, until the Supreme Court of
Pakistan overturned her conviction in 2018,
and has since received asylum in Canada;
Whereas Pakistan selectively enforces the
blasphemy law against minority religious
groups, including specifically targeting the
Ahmadis, such as Abdul Shakoor, an 82-year
old bookseller who was recently released
after serving four years in prison on blas-
phemy charges;
Whereas blasphemy laws in Pakistan have
fostered a climate of impunity, as those who
falsify evidence go unpunished and allega-
tions often result in violent mob attacks or
assassinations, with little to no police re-
sponse;
Whereas, in 2017, the Christian Governor of
Jakarta, Indonesia, was convicted for blas-
phemy of Islam and sentenced to two years
in jail;
Whereas several countries that maintained
blasphemy laws have recently taken steps
towards removing these provisions, including
Greece, Ireland and Canada;
Whereas blasphemy laws in the United
States were invalidated by the adoption of
the First Amendment to the Constitution,
which protects the freedoms of thought, con-
science, expression, and religious exercise;
and
Whereas the United States has become a
beacon of religious freedom and tolerance
around the world: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes that blasphemy, heresy, and
apostasy laws inappropriately position gov-
ernments as arbiters of religious truth and
empower officials to impose religious dogma
on individuals or minorities through the
power of the government or through violence
sanctioned by the government;
(2) calls on the President and the Secretary
of State to make the repeal of blasphemy,
heresy, and apostasy laws a priority in the
bilateral relationships of the United States
with all countries that have such laws,
through direct interventions in bilateral and
multilateral fora;
(3) encourages the President and the Sec-
retary of State to oppose—
(A) any efforts, by the United Nations or
by other international or multilateral fora,
to create an international anti-blasphemy
norm, such as the ‘‘defamation of religions’’
resolutions introduced in the United Nations
between 1999 and 2010; and
(B) any attempts to expand the inter-
national norm on incitement to include blas-
phemy or defamation of religions;
(4) supports efforts by the United Nations
to combat intolerance, discrimination, or vi-
olence against persons based on religion or
belief without restricting expression, includ-
ing United Nations Human Rights Council
Resolution 16/18 (2011) and the Istanbul Proc-
ess meetings pursuant to such resolution,
that are consistent with the First Amend-
ment to the Constitution;
(5) calls on the President and the Secretary
of State to designate countries that enforce
blasphemy, heresy, or apostasy laws as
‘‘countries of particular concern for religious
freedom’’ under section 402(b)(1)(A)(ii) of the
International Religious Freedom Act of 1998
(22 U.S.C. 6442(b)(1)(A)(ii)) for engaging in or
tolerating severe violations of religious free-
dom, as a result of the abuses flowing from
the enforcement of such laws and from
unpunished vigilante violence often gen-
erated by blasphemy allegations;
(6) urges the governments of countries that
enforce blasphemy, heresy, or apostasy laws
to amend or repeal such laws, as they pro-
vide pretext and impunity for vigilante vio-
lence against religious minorities; and
(7) urges the governments of countries that
have prosecuted, imprisoned, and persecuted
people on charges of blasphemy, heresy, or
apostasy to release such people uncondition-
ally and, once released, to ensure their safe-
ty and that of their families.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 459—TO CON-
STITUTE THE MAJORITY PAR-
TY’S MEMBERSHIP ON CERTAIN
COMMITTEES FOR THE ONE HUN-
DRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS, OR
UNTIL THEIR SUCCESSORS ARE
CHOSEN
Mr. MCCONNELL submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 459
Resolved, That the following shall con-
stitute the majority party’s membership on
the following committee for the One Hun-
dred Sixteenth Congress, or until their suc-
cessors are chosen:
SELECT COMMITTEE ON ETHICS: Mr.
Lankford (Chairman), Mr. Roberts, Mr.
Risch.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 460—CON-
GRATULATING THE AMERICAN
GEOPHYSICAL UNION ON THE OC-
CASION OF ITS CENTENNIAL
Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Ms.
MURKOWSKI) submitted the following
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.073 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7214 December 19, 2019
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 460
Whereas, in December 1919, the National
Research Council organized the American
Geophysical Union—
(1) to represent the United States in the
International Union of Geodesy and Geo-
physics of the International Research Coun-
cil; and
(2) to serve as the Committee on Geo-
physics of the National Research Council to
promote work in the fields of astronomy, ge-
odesy, geology, meteorology, seismology,
terrestrial electricity and magnetism, and
volcanology;
Whereas, in 1972, the American Geo-
physical Union was incorporated as an inde-
pendent organization;
Whereas, in 2019, the American Geo-
physical Union has more than 60,000 mem-
bers in 137 countries;
Whereas the mission of the American Geo-
physical Union is to promote discovery in
Earth and space sciences for the benefit of
humanity;
Whereas Earth and space sciences are
international endeavors that transform
human understanding of the planet, from the
core through the atmosphere of the planet
and into the universe beyond;
Whereas Earth and space sciences drive
basic and applied research that has led to
critical health, environmental, commercial,
and technological breakthroughs that have
inspired individuals throughout the world,
strengthened economies, and raised stand-
ards of living;
Whereas Earth and space sciences help in-
dividuals—
(1) understand and formulate solutions for
the critical challenges facing the planet;
(2) become better stewards of natural re-
sources, such as energy, water, and minerals,
for current and future generations; and
(3) comprehend and mitigate the effects of
terrestrial, manmade, and space disasters,
which protects communities worldwide;
Whereas Earth and space sciences are crit-
ical components of a science, technology, en-
gineering, arts, and mathematics (in this
preamble referred to as ‘‘STEAM’’) edu-
cation and inspire students of all ages to be-
come citizen scientists and future leaders in
STEAM fields;
Whereas Earth and space sciences seek to
discover the origins of humanity, the planet,
and the universe, and are a source of awe for
past, current, and future generations; and
Whereas December 2019 marks the 100th
anniversary of the establishment of the
American Geophysical Union: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates the American Geo-
physical Union on the occasion of its centen-
nial;
(2) supports increasing the understanding
of and interest in Earth and space sciences
at the local, national, and international lev-
els;
(3) encourages the scientific community to
engage in public outreach so that individuals
of all ages and backgrounds gain a better un-
derstanding of and appreciation for the value
of Earth and space sciences to daily life and
quality of life;
(4) expresses support for the free and open
exchange of ideas in Earth and space
sciences;
(5) recognizes the important role of govern-
ments in fostering Earth and space scientific
research, including contributing to higher-
risk and longer-term investigations and pro-
viding funding for the basic and applied re-
search necessary for human welfare;
(6) encourages international cooperation in
efforts relating to Earth and space sciences
to foster the global exchange of knowledge
and collaboration among scientists world-
wide for the benefit of humanity; and
(7) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of
this resolution to the executive director and
chief executive officer of the American Geo-
physical Union.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 461—CON-
GRATULATING SEATTLE SOUND-
ERS FC ON WINNING THE 2019
MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER CUP
Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and Mrs.
MURRAY) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 461
Whereas, on November 10, 2019, Seattle
Sounders FC won the 2019 Major League Soc-
cer Cup;
Whereas that win on November 10, 2019, is
the second Major League Soccer champion-
ship won by Seattle Sounders FC in the 11
years that Seattle Sounders FC has been in
Major League Soccer;
Whereas Seattle Sounders FC beat the To-
ronto Football Club 3–1 in the 2019 Major
League Soccer Cup;
Whereas Seattle Sounders FC—
(1) dominated the competition in the reg-
ular season, with 16 wins and 10 losses;
(2) qualified for the Major League Soccer
Cup Playoffs for an unprecedented 11th
straight season; and
(3) earned the number 2 seed in the Major
League Soccer Western Conference;
Whereas Seattle Sounders FC plays home
games at CenturyLink Field in Seattle,
Washington, and, on November 10, 2019, 69,274
Seattle Sounders FC fans from across the
State of Washington packed CenturyLink
Field and set the record for the largest crowd
at a sporting event in the 17-year history of
the stadium;
Whereas the 2019 roster of Seattle Sound-
ers FC players includes—
(1) Saad Abdul-Salaam;
(2) Xavier Arreaga;
(3) Will Bruin;
(4) Handwalla Bwana;
(5) Jonathan Campbell;
(6) Emanuel Cecchini;
(7) Jordy Delem;
(8) Justin Dhillon;
(9) Stefan Frei;
(10) Bheem Goyal;
(11) Joevin Jones;
(12) Kim Kee-hee;
(13) Kelvin Leerdam;
(14) Danny Leyva;
(15) Nicolás Lodeiro;
(16) Chad Marshall;
(17) Bryan Meredith;
(18) Jordan Morris;
(19) Trey Muse;
(20) Alfonso Ocampo-Chavez;
(21) Vı́ctor Rodrı́guez;
(22) Cristian Roldan;
(23) Alex Roldan;
(24) Raúl Ruidı́az;
(25) Harry Shipp;
(26) Luis Silva;
(27) Brad Smith;
(28) Gustav Svensson;
(29) Nouhou; and
(30) Román Torres;
Whereas Seattle Sounders FC defender Kel-
vin Leerdam scored the first goal in the 57th
minute of the championship game;
Whereas Seattle Sounders FC midfielder
Vı́ctor Rodrı́guez—
(1) scored the second goal in the 76th
minute; and
(2) received the 2019 Major League Soccer
Cup Most Valuable Player award;
Whereas Seattle Sounders FC forward Raúl
Ruidı́az scored the third and final goal in the
90th minute;
Whereas Seattle Sounders FC forward Jor-
dan Morris—
(1) scored a career-high 13 goals and a ca-
reer-high 8 assists throughout the 2019 sea-
son; and
(2) received the 2019 Major League Soccer
Comeback Player of the Year award after
suffering a torn anterior cruciate ligament
(ACL) in 2018;
Whereas Seattle Sounders FC Head Coach
Brian Schmetzer won his second Major
League Soccer Cup;
Whereas the 2019 Seattle Sounders FC
coaching and technical staff includes—
(1) Head Coach Brian Schmetzer;
(2) Assistant Coach Gonzalo Pineda;
(3) Assistant Coach Djimi Traore;
(4) Assistant Coach Preki;
(5) Club Director of Goalkeeping Tom
Dutra;
(6) General Manager and President of Soc-
cer Garth Lagerwey; and
(7) Vice President of Soccer Chris Hender-
son;
Whereas Seattle Sounders FC is owned by
Adrian Hanauer, Drew Carey, Jody Allen,
and Peter Tomozawa, and the 11 families
that joined the ownership contingent in 2019,
namely—
(1) Terry Myerson and Katie Myerson;
(2) Russell Wilson and Ciara;
(3) Benjamin Haggerty ‘‘Macklemore’’ and
Tricia Davis;
(4) Satya Nadella and Anu Nadella;
(5) Amy Hood and Max Kleinman;
(6) Joe Belfiore and Kristina Belfiore;
(7) Soma Somasegar and Akila Somasegar;
(8) Chee Chew and Christine Chew;
(9) David Nathanson and Sabina
Nathanson;
(10) Brian McAndrews and Elise Holschuh;
and
(11) Mark Agne and Tomoko Agne;
Whereas the owners of Seattle Sounders
FC have built a culture of success and con-
tributed greatly to Seattle, Washington, and
the surrounding region through philan-
thropy;
Whereas Seattle Sounders FC has exhibited
dedication to positive social impacts by
strengthening communities through the
RAVE Foundation partnership with organi-
zations in Seattle, Washington, and the sur-
rounding region; and
Whereas the dedication and hard work of
Seattle Sounders FC has inspired and em-
powered girls, boys, women, and men of all
ages: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes Seattle Sounders FC for win-
ning the 2019 Major League Soccer Cup;
(2) applauds the people of Seattle, Wash-
ington, and the surrounding region for their
enthusiastic support of Seattle Sounders FC;
(3) supports equity in men’s and women’s
professional sports; and
(4) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of
this resolution to Seattle Sounders FC Head
Coach Brian Schmetzer, General Manager
and President of Soccer Garth Lagerwey, and
Vice President of Soccer Chris Henderson.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.075 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7215
December 19, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 462—DESIG-
NATING JANUARY 2020 AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL ONE HEALTH AWARE-
NESS MONTH’’ TO PROMOTE
AWARENESS OF ORGANIZATIONS
FOCUSED ON PUBLIC HEALTH,
ANIMAL HEALTH, AND ENVIRON-
MENTAL HEALTH COLLABORA-
TION THROUGHOUT THE UNITED
STATES AND TO RECOGNIZE THE
CRITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS OF
THOSE ORGANIZATIONS TO THE
FUTURE OF THE UNITED STATES
Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms.
MCSALLY, Ms. SMITH, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
KING, Mr. CASEY, and Mr. PETERS) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 462
Whereas One Health is a collaborative,
multisectoral, and transdisciplinary ap-
proach, working at the local, regional, na-
tional, and global levels, with the goal of
achieving optimal health outcomes recog-
nizing the interconnection between people,
animals, plants, and their shared environ-
ment;
Whereas the mission of One Health is to es-
tablish closer professional interactions, col-
laborations, and educational opportunities
across the various medical, veterinary, and
environmental health professions and their
allied science professions to simultaneously
improve public health, animal health, and
environmental health;
Whereas the increasing threats posed by
emerging diseases shared between animals
and people, foodborne, vector-borne, and wa-
terborne diseases, and other environmental
factors may support the need for an inte-
grated effort by professionals from multiple
disciplines, including health, science, tech-
nology, and engineering;
Whereas, according to the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention, up to 75 per-
cent of new or emerging infectious diseases
in people are spread by animals;
Whereas, each year, International One
Health Day is November 3; and
Whereas One Health is essential to com-
bating and strengthening the surveillance of
emerging and reemerging diseases: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate designates Janu-
ary 2020 as ‘‘National One Health Awareness
Month’’ to—
(1) promote awareness of organizations
that focus on One Health efforts to improve
the quality of life for people and animals;
(2) recognize the efforts made by such orga-
nizations in using a One Health approach to
prevent epidemics; and
(3) recognize the importance of using the
One Health approach to simultaneously pro-
tect the health of people, animals, plants,
and the environment in the United States.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise to speak on the resolution that
Senator McSally and I introduced to
declare January as ‘‘National One
Health Awareness Month.’’
‘‘One Health’’ is a term used by
health experts—including those at the
Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention—to focus on the connections
between human, animal, and environ-
mental health.
Our resolution will help raise aware-
ness for the ‘‘One Health’’ approach
and promote efforts that simulta-
neously improve the health of people,
animals, plants, and the environment.
By using the One Health approach,
global health problems including anti-
biotic resistance, infectious disease
spread, and sequestered medical knowl-
edge can be addressed.
Antibiotic resistance is of grave con-
cern for both people and animals. Pub-
lic health specialists are working with
physicians and veterinarians to mini-
mize inappropriate antibiotic usage in
their patients.
By 2050, according to the United
Kingdom’s 2014 Review on Anti-
microbial Resistance, experts expect
that more people will die from anti-
biotic resistant microbes than die from
cancer today. The best way to solve
this growing problem is for specialists
across a variety of disciplines to col-
laborate to reduce antibiotic use by
promoting good sanitation and devel-
oping alternatives for antibiotics.
According to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, up to 75 per-
cent of new or emerging infectious dis-
eases in people are spread by animals.
Examples include Ebola, Zika, Rabies,
Tuberculosis, and Plague. By destroy-
ing natural animal habitats through
deforestation, natural disasters, and
climate change, we are forcing animals
and insects to migrate to new areas,
thereby exposing humans to new dis-
eases.
In 2013, a two-year-old boy was the
first victim of the Ebola epidemic in
Western Africa. In his small village,
deforestation forced the bats suspected
of carrying the Ebola virus to move
closer to people.
Collaboration between physicians,
nurses, physician assistants, nurse’s
aids, veterinarians, hygienists, anthro-
pologists, epidemiologists, community
engagement specialists, and military
workers helped end the Ebola epidemic
by attacking it from different angles.
This was an example of One Health in
action. Today, a similar collaborative
approach is working to end the current
Ebola epidemic in Central Africa.
In the United States, diseases such as
Lyme disease, Anaplasma, Bartonella,
and Zika carried by ticks, fleas, and
mosquitoes, respectively, are also
spreading to new areas.
In 2015, an 11-year-old Louisiana boy
was accidently scratched by a kitten
with fleas. He was misdiagnosed by
more than thirty doctors and he be-
came wheelchairbound. However, a
‘‘One Health’’ approach saved his life.
The boy was finally correctly diag-
nosed with a bacterial disease acquired
by the kitten’s scratch once he met
with a medical team that included both
a physician and a veterinarian. The
veterinarian understood that fleas can
give cats bacteria and the physician
understood that a cat’s scratch can
transmit the bacteria to humans. The
boy was prescribed the antibiotics he
needed, and he can now walk again.
It is time that everybody under-
stands the importance of One Health.
With diminishing resources in the envi-
ronment and a growing human popu-
lation, now more than ever, fighting
problems with a One Health approach
must be encouraged.
Thank you Mr. President. I yield the
floor.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 1268. Mr. WICKER proposed an amend-
ment to the bill S. 1822, to require the Fed-
eral Communications Commission to issue
rules relating to the collection of data with
respect to the availability of broadband serv-
ices, and for other purposes.
SA 1269. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
PORTMAN) proposed an amendment to the bill
S. 1434, to prohibit the use of reverse auc-
tions for design and construction services
procurements, and for other purposes.
SA 1270. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. CARDIN)
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 439, to
allow Members of Congress to opt out of the
Federal Employees Retirement System, and
allow Members who opt out of the Federal
Employees Retirement System to continue
to participate in the Thrift Savings Plan.
SA 1271. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. GARD-
NER (for himself and Mr. MANCHIN)) proposed
an amendment to the bill S. 221, to amend
title 38, United States Code, to require the
Under Secretary of Health to report major
adverse personnel actions involving certain
health care employees to the National Prac-
titioner Data Bank and to applicable State
licensing boards, and for other purposes.
SA 1272. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. BOOZ-
MAN) proposed an amendment to the bill S.
2096, to amend title 38, United States Code,
to authorize States and tribal organizations
that receive grants from the National Ceme-
tery Administration for establishment, ex-
pansion, or improvement of a veterans’
cemeteries to use amounts of such grants for
State and tribal organization cemetery per-
sonnel to train at the training center of the
National Cemetery Administration, and for
other purposes.
SA 1273. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. CRUZ)) proposed
an amendment to the bill H.R. 550, to award
a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to
the United States Merchant Mariners of
World War II, in recognition of their dedi-
cated and vital service during World War II.
SA 1274. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. CORNYN)
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 1029, to
allow the use of certified facility dogs in
criminal proceedings in Federal courts, and
for other purposes.
SA 1275. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. CARDIN)
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 1309, to
identify and combat corruption in countries,
to establish a tiered system of countries
with respect to levels of corruption by their
governments and their efforts to combat
such corruption, and to assess United States
assistance to designated countries in order
to advance anti-corruption efforts in those
countries and better serve United States tax-
payers.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 1268. Mr. WICKER proposed an
amendment to the bill S. 1822, to re-
quire the Federal Communications
Commission to issue rules relating to
the collection of data with respect to
the availability of broadband services,
and for other purposes; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Broadband
Deployment Accuracy and Technological
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.080 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7216 December 19, 2019
Availability Act’’ or the ‘‘Broadband DATA
Act’’.
SEC. 2. BROADBAND DATA.
The Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
151 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘TITLE VIII—BROADBAND DATA
‘‘SEC. 801. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this title:
‘‘(1) BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERV-
ICE.—The term ‘broadband internet access
service’ has the meaning given the term in
section 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations, or any successor regulation.
‘‘(2) BROADBAND MAP.—The term
‘Broadband Map’ means the map created by
the Commission under section 802(c)(1)(A).
‘‘(3) CELL EDGE PROBABILITY.—The term
‘cell edge probability’ means the likelihood
that the minimum threshold download and
upload speeds with respect to broadband
internet access service will be met or exceed-
ed at a distance from a base station that is
intended to indicate the ultimate edge of the
coverage area of a cell.
‘‘(4) CELL LOADING.—The term ‘cell loading’
means the percentage of the available air
interface resources of a base station that are
used by consumers with respect to broadband
internet access service.
‘‘(5) CLUTTER.—The term ‘clutter’ means a
natural or man-made surface feature that af-
fects the propagation of a signal from a base
station.
‘‘(6) FABRIC.—The term ‘Fabric’ means the
Broadband Serviceable Location Fabric es-
tablished under section 802(b)(1)(B).
‘‘(7) FORM 477.—The term ‘Form 477’ means
Form 477 of the Commission relating to local
telephone competition and broadband report-
ing.
‘‘(8) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘Indian Tribe’
has the meaning given the term ‘Indian
tribe’ in section 4 of the Indian Self-Deter-
mination and Education Assistance Act (25
U.S.C. 5304).
‘‘(9) MOBILITY FUND PHASE II.—The term
‘Mobility Fund Phase II’ means the second
phase of the proceeding to provide universal
service support from the Mobility Fund (WC
Docket No. 10–90; WT Docket No. 10–208).
‘‘(10) PROPAGATION MODEL.—The term
‘propagation model’ means a mathematical
formulation for the characterization of radio
wave propagation as a function of frequency,
distance, and other conditions.
‘‘(11) PROVIDER.—The term ‘provider’
means a provider of fixed or mobile
broadband internet access service.
‘‘(12) QUALITY OF SERVICE.—The term ‘qual-
ity of service’ means, with respect to
broadband internet access service, the
download and upload speeds (and, for rel-
evant services, latency) with respect to that
service, as determined by, and to the extent
otherwise collected by, the Commission.
‘‘(13) SHAPEFILE.—The term ‘shapefile’
means a digital storage format containing
geospatial or location-based data and at-
tribute information—
‘‘(A) regarding the availability of
broadband internet access service; and
‘‘(B) that can be viewed, edited, and
mapped in geographic information system
software.
‘‘(14) STANDARD BROADBAND INSTALLA-
TION.—The term ‘standard broadband instal-
lation’—
‘‘(A) means the initiation by a provider of
fixed broadband internet access service in an
area in which the provider has not pre-
viously offered that service, with no charges
or delays attributable to the extension of the
network of the provider; and
‘‘(B) includes the initiation of fixed
broadband internet access service through
routine installation that can be completed
not later than 10 business days after the date
on which the service request is submitted.
‘‘SEC. 802. BROADBAND MAPS.
‘‘(a) RULES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this title, the
Commission shall issue final rules that
shall—
‘‘(A) require the biannual collection and
dissemination of granular data, as deter-
mined by the Commission—
‘‘(i) relating to the availability and quality
of service with respect to terrestrial fixed,
fixed wireless, satellite, and mobile
broadband internet access service; and
‘‘(ii) that the Commission shall use to com-
pile the maps created under subsection (c)(1)
(referred to in this section as ‘coverage
maps’), which the Commission shall make
publicly available; and
‘‘(B) establish—
‘‘(i) processes through which the Commis-
sion can verify the accuracy of data sub-
mitted under subsection (b)(2);
‘‘(ii) processes and procedures through
which the Commission, and, as necessary,
other entities or individuals submitting non-
public or competitively sensitive informa-
tion under this title, can protect the secu-
rity, privacy, and confidentiality of that
non-public or competitively sensitive infor-
mation, including—
‘‘(I) information contained in the Fabric;
‘‘(II) the dataset created under subsection
(b)(1)(A) supporting the Fabric; and
‘‘(III) the data submitted under subsection
(b)(2);
‘‘(iii) the challenge process described in
subsection (b)(5); and
‘‘(iv) the process described in section
804(b).
‘‘(2) OTHER DATA.—In issuing the rules
under paragraph (1), the Commission shall
develop a process through which the Com-
mission can collect verified data for use in
the coverage maps from—
‘‘(A) State, local, and Tribal governmental
entities that are primarily responsible for
mapping or tracking broadband internet ac-
cess service coverage for a State, unit of
local government, or Indian Tribe, as appli-
cable;
‘‘(B) third parties, if the Commission deter-
mines that it is in the public interest to use
such data in—
‘‘(i) the development of the coverage maps;
or
‘‘(ii) the verification of data submitted
under subsection (b); and
‘‘(C) other Federal agencies.
‘‘(3) UPDATES.—The Commission shall re-
vise the rules issued under paragraph (1) to—
‘‘(A) reflect changes in technology;
‘‘(B) ensure the accuracy of propagation
models, as further provided in subsection
(b)(3); and
‘‘(C) improve the usefulness of the coverage
maps.
‘‘(b) CONTENT OF RULES.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF A SERVICEABLE LO-
CATION FABRIC REGARDING FIXED
BROADBAND.—
‘‘(A) DATASET.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
create a common dataset of all locations in
the United States where fixed broadband
internet access service can be installed, as
determined by the Commission.
‘‘(ii) CONTRACTING.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subclauses (II)
and (III), the Commission may contract with
an entity with expertise with respect to geo-
graphic information systems (referred to in
this subsection as ‘GIS’) to create and main-
tain the dataset under clause (i).
‘‘(II) APPLICATION OF THE FEDERAL ACQUISI-
TION REGULATION.—A contract into which the
Commission enters under subclause (I) shall
in all respects comply with applicable provi-
sions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
‘‘(III) LIMITATIONS.—With respect to a con-
tract into which the Commission enters
under subclause (I)—
‘‘(aa) the entity with which the Commis-
sion enters into the contract shall be se-
lected through a competitive bid process
that is transparent and open; and
‘‘(bb) the contract shall be for a term of
not longer than 5 years, after which the
Commission may enter into a new contract—
‘‘(AA) with an entity, and for the purposes,
described in clause (i); and
‘‘(BB) that complies with the requirements
under subclause (II) and this subclause; and
‘‘(cc) the contract shall—
‘‘(AA) prohibit the entity described in item
(aa) from selling, leasing, or otherwise dis-
closing for monetary consideration any per-
sonally identifiable information to any other
entity other than for purposes authorized
under this title; and
‘‘(BB) require the entity described in item
(aa) to include in any contract with any
other entity a provision that prohibits that
other entity from engaging in an action that
is prohibited under subitem (AA).
‘‘(B) FABRIC.—The rules issued by the Com-
mission under subsection (a)(1) shall estab-
lish the Broadband Serviceable Location
Fabric, which shall—
‘‘(i) contain geocoded information for each
location identified under subparagraph
(A)(i);
‘‘(ii) serve as the foundation upon which all
data relating to the availability of fixed
broadband internet access service collected
under paragraph (2)(A) shall be reported and
overlaid;
‘‘(iii) be compatible with commonly used
GIS software; and
‘‘(iv) at a minimum, be updated every 6
months by the Commission.
‘‘(C) IMPLEMENTATION PRIORITY.—The Com-
mission shall prioritize implementing the
Fabric for rural and insular areas of the
United States.
‘‘(2) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—The
rules issued by the Commission under sub-
section (a)(1) shall include uniform standards
for the reporting of broadband internet ac-
cess service data that the Commission shall
collect—
‘‘(A) from each provider of terrestrial
fixed, fixed wireless, or satellite broadband
internet access service, which shall include
data that—
‘‘(i) documents the areas where the pro-
vider—
‘‘(I) has actually built out the broadband
network infrastructure of the provider such
that the provider is able to provide that
service; and
‘‘(II) could provide that service, as deter-
mined by identifying where the provider is
capable of performing a standard broadband
installation, if applicable;
‘‘(ii) includes information regarding
download and upload speeds, at various
thresholds established by the Commission,
and, if applicable, latency with respect to
broadband internet access service that the
provider makes available;
‘‘(iii) can be georeferenced to the GIS data
in the Fabric;
‘‘(iv) the provider shall report as—
‘‘(I) with respect to providers of fixed wire-
less broadband internet access service—
‘‘(aa) propagation maps and propagation
model details that—
‘‘(AA) satisfy standards that are similar to
those applicable to providers of mobile
broadband internet access service under sub-
paragraph (B) with respect to propagation
maps and propagation model details, taking
into account material differences between
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.079 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7217
December 19, 2019
fixed wireless and mobile broadband internet
access service; and
‘‘(BB) reflect the speeds and latency of the
service provided by the provider; or
‘‘(bb) a list of addresses or locations that
constitute the service area of the provider,
except that the Commission—
‘‘(AA) may only permit, and not require, a
provider to report the data using that means
of reporting; and
‘‘(BB) in the rules issued under subsection
(a)(1), shall provide a method for using that
means of reporting with respect to Tribal
areas; and
‘‘(II) with respect to providers of terres-
trial fixed and satellite broadband internet
access service—
‘‘(aa) polygon shapefiles; or
‘‘(bb) a list of addresses or locations that
constitute the service area of the provider,
except that the Commission—
‘‘(AA) may only permit, and not require, a
provider to report the data using that means
of reporting; and
‘‘(BB) in the rules issued under subsection
(a)(1), shall provide a method for using that
means of reporting with respect to Tribal
areas; and
‘‘(v) the Commission determines is appro-
priate with respect to certain technologies in
order to ensure that the Broadband Map is
granular and accurate; and
‘‘(B) from each provider of mobile
broadband internet access service, which
shall include propagation maps and propaga-
tion model details that indicate the current
(as of the date on which the information is
collected) fourth generation Long-Term Evo-
lution (commonly referred to as ‘4G LTE’)
mobile broadband internet access service
coverage of the provider, which shall—
‘‘(i) take into consideration the effect of
clutter; and
‘‘(ii) satisfy—
‘‘(I) the requirements of having—
‘‘(aa) a download speed of not less than 5
megabits per second and an upload speed of
not less than 1 megabit per second with a
cell edge probability of not less than 90 per-
cent; and
‘‘(bb) cell loading of not less than 50 per-
cent; and
‘‘(II) any other parameter that the Com-
mission determines to be necessary to create
a map under subsection (c)(1)(C) that is more
precise than the map produced as a result of
the submissions under the Mobility Fund
Phase II information collection.
‘‘(3) UPDATE OF REPORTING STANDARDS FOR
MOBILE BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERV-
ICE.—For the purposes of paragraph (2)(B), if
the Commission determines that the report-
ing standards under that paragraph are in-
sufficient to collect accurate propagation
maps and propagation model details with re-
spect to future generations of mobile
broadband internet access service tech-
nologies, the Commission shall immediately
commence a rule making to adopt new re-
porting standards with respect to those tech-
nologies that—
‘‘(A) shall be the functional equivalent of
the standards required under paragraph
(2)(B); and
‘‘(B) allow for the collection of propagation
maps and propagation model details that are
as accurate and granular as, or more accu-
rate and granular than, the maps and model
details collected by the Commission under
paragraph (2)(B).
‘‘(4) CERTIFICATION AND VERIFICATION.—
With respect to a provider that submits in-
formation to the Commission under para-
graph (2)—
‘‘(A) the provider shall include in each sub-
mission a certification from a corporate offi-
cer of the provider that the officer has exam-
ined the information contained in the sub-
mission and that, to the best of the officer’s
actual knowledge, information, and belief,
all statements of fact contained in the sub-
mission are true and correct; and
‘‘(B) the Commission shall verify the accu-
racy and reliability of the information in ac-
cordance with measures established by the
Commission.
‘‘(5) CHALLENGE PROCESS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the rules issued under
subsection (a), and subject to subparagraph
(B), the Commission shall establish a user-
friendly challenge process through which
consumers, State, local, and Tribal govern-
mental entities, and other entities or indi-
viduals may submit coverage data to the
Commission to challenge the accuracy of—
‘‘(i) the coverage maps;
‘‘(ii) any information submitted by a pro-
vider regarding the availability of broadband
internet access service; or
‘‘(iii) the information included in the Fab-
ric.
‘‘(B) CONSIDERATIONS; VERIFICATION; RE-
SPONSE TO CHALLENGES.—In establishing the
challenge process required under subpara-
graph (A), the Commission shall—
‘‘(i) consider—
‘‘(I) the types of information that an enti-
ty or individual submitting a challenge
should provide to the Commission in support
of the challenge;
‘‘(II) the appropriate level of granularity
for the information described in subclause
(I);
‘‘(III) the need to mitigate the time and ex-
pense incurred by, and the administrative
burdens placed on, entities or individuals
in—
‘‘(aa) challenging the accuracy of a cov-
erage map; and
‘‘(bb) responding to challenges described in
item (aa);
‘‘(IV) the costs to consumers and providers
resulting from a misallocation of funds be-
cause of a reliance on outdated or otherwise
inaccurate information in the coverage
maps;
‘‘(V) any lessons learned from the chal-
lenge process established under Mobility
Fund Phase II, as determined from com-
ments solicited by the Commission; and
‘‘(VI) the need for user-friendly challenge
submission formats that will promote par-
ticipation in the challenge process;
‘‘(ii) include a process for verifying the
data submitted through the challenge proc-
ess in order to ensure the reliability of that
data;
‘‘(iii) allow providers to respond to chal-
lenges submitted through the challenge proc-
ess; and
‘‘(iv) develop an online mechanism,
which—
‘‘(I) shall be integrated into the coverage
maps;
‘‘(II) allows for an entity described in sub-
paragraph (A) to submit a challenge under
the challenge process;
‘‘(III) makes challenge data available in
both geographic information system and
non-geographic information system formats;
and
‘‘(IV) clearly identifies the areas in which
broadband internet access service is avail-
able, and the upload and download speeds at
which that service is available, as reported
to the Commission under this section.
‘‘(C) USE OF CHALLENGES.—The rules issued
to establish the challenge process under sub-
paragraph (A) shall include—
‘‘(i) a process for the speedy resolution of
challenges; and
‘‘(ii) a process for the regular and expedi-
tious updating of the coverage maps and
granular data disseminated by the Commis-
sion as challenges are resolved.
‘‘(D) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not earlier
than 1 year, and not later than 18 months,
after the date on which the rules issued
under subsection (a)(1) take effect, the Com-
mission shall, after an opportunity for notice
and comment, submit to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of
the Senate and the Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the House of Representa-
tives a report that—
‘‘(i) evaluates the challenge process de-
scribed in subparagraph (A); and
‘‘(ii) considers whether the Commission
should commence an inquiry on the need for
other tools to help—
‘‘(I) identify potential inaccuracies in the
data relating to broadband internet access
service that providers report; and
‘‘(II) improve the accuracy of the data de-
scribed in subclause (I).
‘‘(6) REFORM OF FORM 477 PROCESS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date on which the rules issued
under subsection (a) take effect, the Com-
mission shall—
‘‘(i) reform the Form 477 broadband deploy-
ment service availability collection process
of the Commission—
‘‘(I) to achieve the purposes of this title;
and
‘‘(II) in a manner that—
‘‘(aa) enables the comparison of data and
maps produced before the implementation of
this title with data and coverage maps pro-
duced after the implementation of this title;
and
‘‘(bb) maintains the public availability of
data relating to the deployment of
broadband internet access service; and
‘‘(ii) harmonize reporting requirements and
procedures regarding the deployment of
broadband internet access service that are in
effect on the day before the date on which
the rules issued under subsection (a)(1) take
effect with those requirements and proce-
dures in those rules.
‘‘(B) CONTINUED COLLECTION AND REPORT-
ING.—On and after the date on which the
Commission carries out subparagraph (A),
the Commission shall continue to collect and
publicly report subscription data that the
Commission collected through the Form 477
broadband deployment service availability
process, as in effect on July 1, 2019.
‘‘(7) SHARING DATA WITH NTIA.—The Com-
mission shall establish a process to make the
data collected under paragraph (2) available
to the National Telecommunications and In-
formation Administration.
‘‘(c) MAPS.—The Commission shall—
‘‘(1) after consultation with the Federal
Geographic Data Committee established
under section 753(a) of the Geospatial Data
Act of 2018, create—
‘‘(A) the Broadband Map, which shall de-
pict—
‘‘(i) the extent of the availability of
broadband internet access service in the
United States, without regard to whether
that service is fixed broadband internet ac-
cess service or mobile broadband internet ac-
cess service, which shall be based on data
collected by the Commission from all pro-
viders; and
‘‘(ii) the areas of the United States that re-
main unserved by providers;
‘‘(B) a map that depicts the availability of
fixed broadband internet access service,
which shall be based on data collected by the
Commission from providers under subsection
(b)(2)(A); and
‘‘(C) a map that depicts the availability of
mobile broadband internet access service,
which shall be based on data collected by the
Commission from providers under subsection
(b)(2)(B);
‘‘(2) use the maps created under paragraph
(1)—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.079 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7218 December 19, 2019
‘‘(A) to determine the areas in which ter-
restrial fixed, fixed wireless, mobile, and sat-
ellite broadband internet access service is
and is not available; and
‘‘(B) when making any new award of fund-
ing with respect to the deployment of
broadband internet access service;
‘‘(3) update the maps created under para-
graph (1) not less frequently than biannually
using the most recent data collected from
providers under subsection (b)(2);
‘‘(4) consult with—
‘‘(A) the Secretary of Agriculture to enable
the Secretary of Agriculture to consult the
maps created under paragraph (1) when con-
sidering the awarding of funds for the de-
ployment of broadband internet access serv-
ice under any program administered by the
Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service;
and
‘‘(B) the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration to enable the
Administration to consult the maps created
under paragraph (1) when considering the
awarding of funds for the deployment of
broadband internet access service under any
future program administered by the Admin-
istration;
‘‘(5) make available to any Federal agency,
upon request, the maps created under para-
graph (1); and
‘‘(6) make public at an appropriate level of
granularity—
‘‘(A) the maps created under paragraph (1);
and
‘‘(B) the data collected by the Commission
with respect to the availability of broadband
internet access service and the quality of
service with respect to broadband internet
access service.
‘‘(d) DELAYED EFFECTIVE DATE FOR QUALITY
OF SERVICE RULES.—Any requirement of a
rule issued under subsection (a)(1) that re-
lates to quality of service shall take effect
not earlier than the date that is 180 days
after the date on which the Commission
issues that rule.
‘‘SEC. 803. ENFORCEMENT.
‘‘It shall be unlawful for an entity or indi-
vidual to willfully and knowingly, or reck-
lessly, submit information or data under this
title that is materially inaccurate or incom-
plete with respect to the availability of
broadband internet access service or the
quality of service with respect to broadband
internet access service.
‘‘SEC. 804. IMPROVING DATA ACCURACY.
‘‘(a) AUDITS.—The Commission shall con-
duct regular audits of information submitted
to the Commission by providers under sec-
tion 802(b)(2) to ensure that the providers are
complying with this title.
‘‘(b) CROWDSOURCING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
develop a process through which entities or
individuals in the United States may submit
specific information about the deployment
and availability of broadband internet access
service in the United States on an ongoing
basis so that the information may be used to
verify and supplement information provided
by providers of broadband internet access
service for inclusion in the maps created
under section 802(c)(1).
‘‘(2) COLLABORATION.—As part of the efforts
of the Commission to facilitate the ability of
entities and individuals to submit informa-
tion under paragraph (1), the Commission
shall—
‘‘(A) prioritize the consideration of data
provided by data collection applications used
by consumers that the Commission has de-
termined—
‘‘(i) are highly reliable; and
‘‘(ii) have proven methodologies for deter-
mining network coverage and network per-
formance;
‘‘(B) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this title, conclude a process
that tests the feasibility of partnering with
Federal agencies that operate delivery fleet
vehicles, including the United States Postal
Service, to facilitate the collection and sub-
mission of information described in that
paragraph; and
‘‘(C) not later than 14 months after the
date of enactment of this title, publish on
the website of the Commission, and submit
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate and the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives, a report regarding
the testing described in subparagraph (B),
which shall include—
‘‘(i) a determination regarding whether the
partnerships with Federal agencies described
in that subparagraph are able to facilitate
the collection and submission of information
described in paragraph (1); and
‘‘(ii) any steps that the Commission plans
to take to facilitate the partnerships de-
scribed in that subparagraph.
‘‘(c) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO INDIAN
TRIBES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Commission shall hold workshops for
Tribal governments in each of the 12 Bureau
of Indian Affairs regions to provide technical
assistance with the collection and submis-
sion of data under section 802(a)(2).
‘‘(2) ANNUAL REVIEW.—Each year, the Com-
mission, in consultation with Indian Tribes,
shall review the need for continued work-
shops required under paragraph (1).
‘‘(d) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL
SERVICE PROVIDERS.—The Commission shall
establish a process through which a provider
that has fewer than 100,000 active broadband
internet access service connections may re-
quest and receive assistance from the Com-
mission with respect to geographic informa-
tion system data processing to ensure that
the provider is able to comply with the re-
quirements under section 802(b) in a timely
and accurate manner.
‘‘(e) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO STATE,
LOCAL, AND TRIBAL GOVERNMENTS AND CON-
SUMERS.—The Commission shall provide
technical assistance to consumers and State,
local, and Tribal governmental entities with
respect to the challenge process established
under section 802(b)(5), which shall include—
‘‘(1) detailed tutorials and webinars; and
‘‘(2) the provision of staff of the Commis-
sion to provide assistance, as needed,
throughout the entirety of the challenge
process.
‘‘(f) GAO ASSESSMENT OF FABRIC SOURCE
DATA.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General
of the United States shall conduct an assess-
ment of key data sources that are used for
purposes of the Fabric to identify and
geocode locations where fixed broadband
internet access service can be installed in
order for the Comptroller General to develop
recommendations for how the quality and
completeness of those data sources can be
improved as data sources for the Fabric.
‘‘(2) SOURCES INCLUDED.—For the purposes
of the assessment conducted under para-
graph (1), the key data sources described in
that paragraph shall include—
‘‘(A) any relevant sources of Federal data,
including the National Address Database ad-
ministered by the Department of Transpor-
tation;
‘‘(B) State- and county-level digitized par-
cel data; and
‘‘(C) property tax attribute recording.
‘‘(3) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this title, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate and the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives a
report that contains the recommendations
developed under paragraph (1).
‘‘SEC. 805. COST.
‘‘(a) USF.—The Commission may not use
funds from the universal service programs of
the Commission established under section
254, and the regulations issued under that
section, to pay for any costs associated with
this title.
‘‘(b) OTHER FUNDS.—The Commission may
recover costs associated with this title under
section 9 to the extent provided for in an ap-
propriation Act, as required under sub-
section (a) of that section.
‘‘SEC. 806. OTHER PROVISIONS.
‘‘(a) OMB.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the initial rule making re-
quired under section 802(a)(1) shall be exempt
from review by the Office of Management
and Budget.
‘‘(b) PRA.—Chapter 35 of title 44, United
States Code (commonly known as the ‘Paper-
work Reduction Act’) shall not apply to the
initial rule making required under section
802(a)(1).
‘‘(c) EXECUTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES.—Ex-
cept as provided in section 802(b)(1)(A)(ii),
the Commission—
‘‘(1) including the offices of the Commis-
sion, shall carry out the responsibilities as-
signed to the Commission under this title;
and
‘‘(2) may not delegate any of the respon-
sibilities assigned to the Commission under
this title to any third party, including the
Universal Service Administrative Company.
‘‘(d) REPORTING.—Each fiscal year, the
Commission shall submit to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate and the Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the House of Representa-
tives a report that summarizes the imple-
mentation of this title and associated en-
forcement activities conducted during the
previous fiscal year.
‘‘(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—If the Com-
mission, before the date of enactment of this
title, has taken an action that, in whole or
in part, implements this title, the Commis-
sion shall not be required to revisit such ac-
tion to the extent that such action is con-
sistent with this title.’’.
SA 1269. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
PORTMAN) proposed an amendment to
the bill S. 1434, to prohibit the use of
reverse auctions for design and con-
struction services procurements, and
for other purposes; as follows:
On page 3, line 12, strike ‘‘, in whole or in
part, based’’ and insert ‘‘is solely based’’.
SA 1270. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
CARDIN) proposed an amendment to the
bill S. 439, to allow Members of Con-
gress to opt out of the Federal Employ-
ees Retirement System, and allow
Members who opt out of the Federal
Employees Retirement System to con-
tinue to participate in the Thrift Sav-
ings Plan; as follows:
On page 2, strike lines 1 through 3 and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Members of
Congress Pension Opt Out Clarification
Act’’.
SA 1271. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
MANCHIN)) proposed an amendment to
the bill S. 221, to amend title 38, United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.079 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7219
December 19, 2019
States Code, to require the Under Sec-
retary of Health to report major ad-
verse personnel actions involving cer-
tain health care employees to the Na-
tional Practitioner Data Bank and to
applicable State licensing boards, and
for other purposes; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Veterans Affairs Provider Accountability
Act’’.
SEC. 2. ACCOUNTABILITY WITHIN VETERANS
HEALTH ADMINISTRATION.
(a) REPORTING MAJOR ADVERSE ACTIONS TO
NATIONAL PRACTITIONER DATA BANK AND
STATE LICENSING BOARDS.—Section 7461 of
title 38, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(f)(1) Whenever the Under Secretary for
Health (or an official designated by the
Under Secretary) brings charges based on
conduct or performance against a section
7401(1) employee and as a result of those
charges a covered major adverse action is
taken against the employee, the Under Sec-
retary shall, not later than 30 days after the
date on which such covered major adverse
action is carried out—
‘‘(A) transmit to the National Practitioner
Data Bank of the Department of Health and
Human Services and the applicable State li-
censing board the name of the employee, a
description of the covered major adverse ac-
tion, and a description of the reason for the
covered major adverse action; and
‘‘(B) update the VetPro System, or suc-
cessor system, with a record of the covered
major adverse action taken and an indica-
tion that information was transmitted under
subparagraph (A).
‘‘(2) The Under Secretary for Health—
‘‘(A) shall enroll all 7401(1) employees in a
continuous query of their record within the
National Practitioner Data Bank; and
‘‘(B) shall develop and implement a mecha-
nism for maintaining and updating the infor-
mation collected through such continuous
query within the VetPro System, or suc-
cessor system, to facilitate the sharing of
such information between Veterans Inte-
grated Service Networks.
‘‘(3) In this subsection, the term ‘covered
major adverse action’ means a major adverse
action with respect to a section 7401(1) em-
ployee that originated from circumstances
in which the behavior of the employee so
substantially failed to meet generally-ac-
cepted standards of clinical practice as to
raise reasonable concern for safety of pa-
tients.’’.
(b) PROHIBITION ON SIGNING SETTLEMENTS
WITH CERTAIN CLAUSES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs may not enter into a settlement agree-
ment relating to an adverse action against a
section 7401(1) employee under which the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs would be re-
quired to conceal a serious medical error or
a lapse in generally-accepted standards of
clinical practice.
(2) EXCEPTION.—Paragraph (1) shall not
apply to a negative record if the head of the
Office of Accountability and Whistleblower
Protection of the Department and the Spe-
cial Counsel (established by section 1211 of
title 5, United States Code) jointly certify
that the negative record is not legitimate.
(c) TRAINING ON CREDENTIALING AND PRIVI-
LEGING.—The Under Secretary for Health of
the Department of Veterans Affairs shall
provide to all staff of the Veterans Health
Administration who handle hiring, privi-
leging, and credentialing mandatory train-
ing on—
(1) all policies of the Veterans Health Ad-
ministration for credentialing and privi-
leging; and
(2) when and how to report adverse actions
to the National Practitioner Data Bank of
the Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, State licensing boards, and other rel-
evant entities.
(d) SENSE OF CONGRESS ON UPDATES TO THE
VHA HANDBOOK.—It is the sense of Congress
that—
(1) Congress recognizes that the confusion
regarding practices in the Veterans Health
Administration for reporting to State licens-
ing boards stems from a lack of guidance in
the Veterans Health Administration hand-
book 1100.18;
(2) Congress strongly recommends that the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs update such
handbook to ensure that employees of the
Veterans Health Administration, officials of
the Veterans Integrated Services Networks,
and officials of the Department of Veterans
Affairs understand and are able to utilize the
role of State licensing boards to effectively
prevent instances of failed reporting and fu-
ture patient safety concerns;
(3) Congress recognizes the broad authority
of the Veterans Health Administration to re-
port to State licensing boards those em-
ployed or separated health care professionals
whose behavior and clinical practice so sub-
stantially failed to meet generally-accepted
standards of clinical practice as to raise rea-
sonable concern for safety of patients and re-
quests that such handbook is updated to re-
flect appropriate reporting channels to en-
sure employee understanding of those proce-
dures and authorities; and
(4) in developing the new handbook, the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs should consult
with—
(A) State licensing boards;
(B) the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services;
(C) the National Practitioner Data Bank of
the Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices; and
(D) the exclusive representative of section
7401(1) employees.
(e) SECTION 7401(1) EMPLOYEE DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘section 7401(1) em-
ployee’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 7461(c)(1) of title 38, United States
Code.
SA 1272. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
BOOZMAN) proposed an amendment to
the bill S. 2096, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to authorize
States and tribal organizations that re-
ceive grants from the National Ceme-
tery Administration for establishment,
expansion, or improvement of a vet-
erans’ cemeteries to use amounts of
such grants for State and tribal organi-
zation cemetery personnel to train at
the training center of the National
Cemetery Administration, and for
other purposes; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. TRAINING OF STATE VETERANS CEM-
ETERY PERSONNEL BY NATIONAL
CEMETERY ADMINISTRATION.
Section 2408 of title 38, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘and (ii) the cost’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(ii) the cost’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘; and (iii) training costs,
including travel expenses, associated with
attendance at training provided by the Na-
tional Cemetery Administration’’ before the
semicolon; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘and (ii) the cost’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(ii) the cost’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘; and (iii) training costs,
including travel expenses, associated with
attendance at training provided by the Na-
tional Cemetery Administration’’ before the
period;
(2) by redesignating subsections (c)
through (f) as subsections (d) through (g), re-
spectively; and
(3) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing new subsection (c):
‘‘(c) A grant under this section for a pur-
pose described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of
subsection (a)(1) may be used, solely or in
part, for training costs, including travel ex-
penses, associated with attendance at train-
ing provided by the National Cemetery Ad-
ministration.’’.
SA 1273. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr. CRUZ))
proposed an amendment to the bill
H.R. 550, to award a Congressional Gold
Medal, collectively, to the United
States Merchant Mariners of World
War II, in recognition of their dedi-
cated and vital service during World
War II; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Merchant
Mariners of World War II Congressional Gold
Medal Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) 2019 marked the 74th anniversary of Al-
lied victory in World War II.
(2) The United States Merchant Marine (in
this section referred to as the ‘‘Merchant
Marine’’) was integral in providing the link
between domestic production and the fight-
ing forces overseas, providing combat equip-
ment, fuel, food, commodities, and raw ma-
terials to troops stationed abroad.
(3) Fleet Admiral Ernest J. King acknowl-
edged the indispensability of the Merchant
Marine to the victory in a 1945 letter stating
that, without the support of the Merchant
Marine, ‘‘the Navy could not have accom-
plished its mission’’.
(4) President, and former Supreme Com-
mander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces,
Dwight D. Eisenhower acknowledged that
‘‘through the prompt delivery of supplies and
equipment to our armed forces overseas, and
of cargoes representing economic and mili-
tary aid to friendly nations, the American
Merchant Marine has effectively helped to
strengthen the forces of freedom throughout
the world’’.
(5) Military missions and war planning
were contingent upon the availability of re-
sources and the Merchant Marine played a
vital role in this regard, ensuring the effi-
cient and reliable transoceanic transport of
military equipment and both military and
civilian personnel.
(6) The Merchant Marine provided for the
successful transport of resources and per-
sonnel despite consistent and ongoing expo-
sure to enemy combatants from both the air
and the sea, including from enemy bomber
squadrons, submarines, and naval mines.
(7) The efforts of the Merchant Marine
were not without sacrifices as the Merchant
Marine likely bore a higher per-capita cas-
ualty rate than any of the military branches
during the war.
(8) The Merchant Marine proved to be an
instrumental asset on an untold number of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.077 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7220 December 19, 2019
occasions, participating in every landing op-
eration by the United States Marine Corps,
from Guadalcanal to Okinawa.
(9) The Merchant Marine provided the bulk
tonnage of material necessary for the inva-
sion of Normandy, an invasion which, ac-
cording to a 1944 New York Times article,
‘‘would not have been possible without the
Merchant Marine’’.
(10) In assessing the performance of the
Merchant Marine, General Eisenhower stat-
ed, ‘‘every man in this Allied command is
quick to express his admiration for the loy-
alty, courage, and fortitude of the officers
and men of the Merchant Marine. We count
upon their efficiency and their utter devo-
tion to duty as we do our own; they have
never failed us’’.
(11) During a September 1944 speech, Presi-
dent Franklin D. Roosevelt stated that the
Merchant Marine had ‘‘delivered the goods
when and where needed in every theater of
operations and across every ocean in the big-
gest, the most difficult, and dangerous trans-
portation job ever undertaken. As time goes
on, there will be greater public under-
standing of our merchant fleet’s record dur-
ing this war’’.
(12) The feats and accomplishments of the
Merchant Marine are deserving of broader
public recognition.
(13) The United States will be forever
grateful and indebted to these merchant
mariners for their effective, reliable, and
courageous transport of goods and resources
in enemy territory throughout theaters of
every variety in World War II.
(14) The goods and resources transported
by the Merchant Marine saved thousands of
lives and enabled the Allied Powers to claim
victory in World War II.
(15) The Congressional Gold Medal would
be an appropriate way to shed further light
on the service of the merchant mariners in
World War II and the instrumental role they
played in winning that war.
(16) Many students of the Merchant Marine
Academy lost their lives as they sailed
through enemy-controlled waters or un-
loaded cargo in overseas combat areas, and,
as a result, the United States Merchant Ma-
rine Academy is the only institution among
the 5 Federal academies to be authorized to
carry a battle standard as part of its color
guard.
SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.
(a) AWARD AUTHORIZED.—The Speaker of
the House of Representatives and the Presi-
dent pro tempore of the Senate shall make
appropriate arrangements for the award, on
behalf of Congress, of a single gold medal of
appropriate design to the United States mer-
chant mariners of World War II, in recogni-
tion of their dedicated and vital service dur-
ing World War II.
(b) DESIGN AND STRIKING.—For the pur-
poses of the award described in subsection
(a), the Secretary of the Treasury (in this
Act referred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall
strike the gold medal with suitable emblems,
devices, and inscriptions, to be determined
by the Secretary.
(c) AMERICAN MERCHANT MARINE MU-
SEUM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Following the award of
the gold medal under subsection (a), the gold
medal shall be given to the American Mer-
chant Marine Museum, where it will be
available for display as appropriate and
available for research.
(2) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the American Merchant Ma-
rine Museum should make the gold medal
given to the Museum under paragraph (1)
available for display elsewhere, particularly
at appropriate locations associated with the
United States Merchant Marine and that
preference should be given to locations affili-
ated with the United States Merchant Ma-
rine.
SEC. 4. DUPLICATE MEDALS.
Under such regulations as the Secretary
may prescribe, the Secretary may strike and
sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal
struck under section 3, at a price sufficient
to cover the costs of the medals, including
labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and
overhead expenses.
SEC. 5. STATUS OF MEDALS.
(a) NATIONAL MEDALS.—Medals struck
under this Act are national medals for pur-
poses of chapter 51 of title 31, United States
Code.
(b) NUMISMATIC ITEMS.—For purposes of
section 5134 of title 31, United States Code,
all medals struck under this Act shall be
considered to be numismatic items.
SA 1274. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
CORNYN) proposed an amendment to
the bill S. 1029, to allow the use of cer-
tified facility dogs in criminal pro-
ceedings in Federal courts, and for
other purposes; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Courthouse
Dogs Act’’.
SEC. 2. USE OF CERTIFIED FACILITY DOG FOR
TESTIMONY IN CRIMINAL PRO-
CEEDINGS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 223 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 3502 the following:
‘‘§ 3503. Use of certified facility dog for testi-
mony in criminal proceedings
‘‘(a) DEFINED TERM.—In this section, the
term ‘certified facility dog’ means a dog that
has graduated from an assistance dog organi-
zation that is a member of an internation-
ally recognized assistance dog association
that has a primary purpose of granting ac-
creditation based on standards of excellence
in areas of—
‘‘(1) assistance dog acquisition;
‘‘(2) dog training;
‘‘(3) dog handler training; and
‘‘(4) dog placement.
‘‘(b) REQUESTS FOR USE OF CERTIFIED FA-
CILITY DOGS.—Either party in a criminal pro-
ceeding in a Federal court may apply for an
order from the court to allow a certified fa-
cility dog, if available, to be present with a
witness testifying before the court through—
‘‘(1) in-person testimony; or
‘‘(2) testimony televised by 2-way, closed-
circuit television.
‘‘(c) CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL.—A Federal
court may enter an order authorizing an
available certified facility dog to accompany
a witness while testifying at a hearing in ac-
cordance with subsection (b) if the court
finds that—
‘‘(1) the dog to be used qualifies as a cer-
tified facility dog;
‘‘(2) the use of a certified facility dog will
aid the witness in providing testimony; and
‘‘(3) upon a showing by the party seeking
an order under subsection (b), the certified
facility dog is insured for liability protec-
tion.
‘‘(d) HANDLERS.—Each certified facility dog
authorized to accompany a witness under
subsection (c) shall be accompanied by a
handler who is—
‘‘(1) trained to manage the certified facil-
ity dog by an assistance dog organization de-
scribed in subsection (a); and
‘‘(2) a professional working in the legal
system with knowledge about the legal and
criminal justice processes.
‘‘(e) DEADLINE.—The party seeking an
order under subsection (b) shall apply for
such order not later than 14 days before the
preliminary hearing, trial date, or other
hearing to which the order is to apply.
‘‘(f) OTHER ORDERS.—A Federal court may
make such orders as may be necessary to
preserve the fairness of the proceeding, in-
cluding imposing restrictions on, and in-
structing the jury regarding, the presence of
the certified facility dog during the pro-
ceedings.
‘‘(g) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in this
section may be construed to prevent a Fed-
eral court from providing any other accom-
modations to a witness in accordance with
applicable law.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The chapter
analysis for chapter 223 of title 18, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 3502 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘3503. Use of certified facility dog for testi-
mony in criminal pro-
ceedings.’’.
SA 1275. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
CARDIN) proposed an amendment to the
bill S. 1309, to identify and combat cor-
ruption in countries, to establish a
tiered system of countries with respect
to levels of corruption by their govern-
ments and their efforts to combat such
corruption, and to assess United States
assistance to designated countries in
order to advance anti-corruption ef-
forts in those countries and better
serve United States taxpayers; as fol-
lows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) it is in the foreign policy interest of the
United States to help foreign countries pro-
mote good governance and combat public
corruption;
(2) multiple Federal departments and agen-
cies operate programs that promote good
governance in foreign countries and enhance
such countries’ ability to combat public cor-
ruption; and
(3) the Department of State should—
(A) promote coordination among the Fed-
eral departments and agencies implementing
programs to promote good governance and
combat public corruption in foreign coun-
tries in order to improve effectiveness and
efficiency; and
(B) identify areas in which United States
efforts to help other countries promote good
governance and combat public corruption
could be enhanced.
SEC. 2. ANNUAL ASSESSMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—For each of the fiscal
years 2020 through 2026, the Secretary of
State shall assess the capacity and commit-
ment of foreign governments to which the
United States provides foreign assistance
under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
U.S.C. 2151 et seq.) or the Arms Export Con-
trol Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) to combat
public corruption. Each such assessment
shall—
(1) utilize independent, third party indica-
tors that measure transparency, account-
ability, and corruption in the public sector
in such countries, including the extent to
which public power is exercised for private
gain, to identify those countries that are
most vulnerable to public corruption;
(2) consider, to the extent reliable informa-
tion is available, whether the government of
a country identified under paragraph (1)—
(A) has adopted measures to prevent public
corruption, such as measures to inform and
educate the public, including potential vic-
tims, about the causes and consequences of
public corruption;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.084 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7221
December 19, 2019
(B) has enacted laws and established gov-
ernment structures, policies, and practices
that prohibit public corruption;
(C) enforces such laws through a fair judi-
cial process;
(D) vigorously investigates, prosecutes,
convicts, and sentences public officials who
participate in or facilitate public corruption,
including nationals of such country who are
deployed in foreign military assignments,
trade delegations abroad, or other similar
missions who engage in or facilitate public
corruption;
(E) prescribes appropriate punishment for
serious, significant corruption that is com-
mensurate with the punishment prescribed
for serious crimes;
(F) prescribes appropriate punishment for
significant corruption that provides a suffi-
ciently stringent deterrent and adequately
reflects the nature of the offense;
(G) convicts and sentences persons respon-
sible for such acts that take place wholly or
partly within the country of such govern-
ment, including, as appropriate, requiring
the incarceration of individuals convicted of
such acts;
(H) holds private sector representatives ac-
countable for their role in public corruption;
and
(I) addresses threats for civil society to
monitor anti-corruption efforts; and
(3) further consider—
(A) verifiable measures taken by the gov-
ernment of a country identified under para-
graph (1) to prohibit government officials
from participating in, facilitating, or
condoning public corruption, including the
investigation, prosecution, and conviction of
such officials;
(B) the extent to which such government
provides access, or, as appropriate, makes
adequate resources available, to civil society
organizations and other institutions to com-
bat public corruption, including reporting,
investigating, and monitoring;
(C) the extent to which an independent ju-
diciary or judicial body in such country is
responsible for, and effectively capable of,
deciding public corruption cases impartially,
on the basis of facts and in accordance with
law, without any improper restrictions, in-
fluences, inducements, pressures, threats, or
interferences, whether direct or indirect,
from any source or for any reason;
(D) the extent to which such government
cooperates meaningfully with the United
States to strengthen government and judi-
cial institutions and the rule of law to pre-
vent, prohibit, and punish public corruption;
(E) the extent to which such government—
(i) is assisting in international investiga-
tions of transnational public corruption net-
works and in other cooperative efforts to
combat serious, significant corruption, in-
cluding cooperating with the governments of
other countries to extradite corrupt actors;
(ii) recognizes the rights of victims of pub-
lic corruption, ensures their access to jus-
tice, and takes steps to prevent such victims
from being further victimized or persecuted
by corrupt actors, government officials, or
others; and
(iii) refrains from prosecuting legitimate
victims of public corruption or whistle-
blowers due to such persons having assisted
in exposing public corruption, and refrains
from other discriminatory treatment of such
persons; and
(F) contain such other information relat-
ing to public corruption as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate.
(b) IDENTIFICATION.—After conducting each
assessment under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary of State shall identify, of the coun-
tries described in subsection (a)(1)—
(1) which countries are meeting minimum
standards to combat public corruption;
(2) which countries are not meeting such
minimum standards, but are making signifi-
cant efforts to do so; and
(3) which countries are not meeting such
minimum standards and are not making sig-
nificant efforts to do so.
(c) REPORT.—Except as provided in sub-
section (d), not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, and annu-
ally thereafter through fiscal year 2026, the
Secretary of State shall submit a report to
the appropriate congressional committees,
and make such report publicly available.
Such report shall—
(1) identify the countries described in sub-
section (a)(1) and paragraphs (2) and (3) of
subsection (b);
(2) describe the methodology and data uti-
lized in the assessments under subsection (a);
and
(3) identify the reasons for the identifica-
tions referred to in paragraph (1).
(d) BRIEFING IN LIEU OF REPORT.—The Sec-
retary of State may waive the requirement
to submit and make publicly available a
written report under subsection (c) if the
Secretary—
(1) determines that publication of such re-
port would—
(A) undermine existing United States anti-
corruption efforts in 1 or more countries; or
(B) threaten the national interests of the
United States; and
(2) provides a briefing to the appropriate
congressional committees that—
(A) identifies the countries described in
subsection (a)(1) and paragraphs (2) and (3) of
subsection (b);
(B) describes the methodology and data
utilized in the assessment under subsection
(a); and
(C) identifies the reasons for such identi-
fications.
(e) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COM-
MITTEE DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate;
(3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives; and
(4) the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives.
SEC. 3. TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
For each country identified under para-
graphs (2) and (3) of section 2(b), the Sec-
retary of State, in coordination with the Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, as appropriate,
shall—
(1) ensure that a corruption risk assess-
ment and mitigation strategy is included in
the integrated country strategy for such
country; and
(2) utilize appropriate mechanisms to com-
bat corruption in such countries, including
by ensuring—
(A) the inclusion of anti-corruption clauses
in contracts, grants, and cooperative agree-
ments entered into by the Department of
State or the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development for or in such coun-
tries, which allow for the termination of
such contracts, grants, or cooperative agree-
ments, as the case may be, without penalty
if credible indicators of public corruption are
discovered;
(B) the inclusion of appropriate clawback
or flowdown clauses within the procurement
instruments of the Department of State and
the United States Agency for International
Development that provide for the recovery of
funds misappropriated through corruption;
(C) the appropriate disclosure to the
United States Government, in confidential
form, if necessary, of the beneficial owner-
ship of contractors, subcontractors, grant-
ees, cooperative agreement participants, and
other organizations implementing programs
on behalf of the Department of State or the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment; and
(D) the establishment of mechanisms for
investigating allegations of misappropriated
resources and equipment.
SEC. 4. DESIGNATION OF EMBASSY ANTI-COR-
RUPTION POINTS OF CONTACT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State
shall annually designate an anti-corruption
point of contact at the United States diplo-
matic post to each country identified under
paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 2(b), or
which the Secretary otherwise determines is
in need of such a point of contact. The point
of contact shall be the Chief of Mission or
the Chief of Mission’s designee.
(b) RESPONSIBILITIES.—Each anti-corrup-
tion point of contact designated under sub-
section (a) shall be responsible for coordi-
nating and overseeing the implementation of
a whole-of-government approach among the
relevant Federal departments and agencies
operating programs that—
(1) promote good governance in foreign
countries; and
(2) enhance the ability of such countries—
(A) to combat public corruption; and
(B) to develop and implement corruption
risk assessment tools and mitigation strate-
gies.
(c) TRAINING.—The Secretary of State shall
implement appropriate training for anti-cor-
ruption points of contact designated under
subsection (a).
SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) CORRUPT ACTOR.—The term ‘‘corrupt
actor’’ means—
(A) any foreign person or entity that is a
government official or government entity re-
sponsible for, or complicit in, an act of pub-
lic corruption; and
(B) any company, in which a person or en-
tity described in subparagraph (A) has a sig-
nificant stake, which is responsible for, or
complicit in, an act of public corruption.
(2) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE.—The term ‘‘for-
eign assistance’’ means assistance made
available under—
(A) the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
U.S.C. 2151 et seq.); or
(B) the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C.
2751 et seq.).
(3) GRAND CORRUPTION.—The term ‘‘grand
corruption’’ means public corruption com-
mitted at a high level of government that—
(A) distorts policies or the central func-
tioning of the country; and
(B) enables leaders to benefit at the ex-
pense of the public good.
(4) PETTY CORRUPTION.—The term ‘‘petty
corruption’’ means the unlawful exercise of
entrusted public power for private gain by
low- or mid-level public officials in their
interactions with ordinary citizens, includ-
ing by bribery, nepotism, fraud, or embezzle-
ment.
(5) PUBLIC CORRUPTION.—The term ‘‘public
corruption’’ means the unlawful exercise of
entrusted public power for private gain, in-
cluding by bribery, nepotism, fraud, or em-
bezzlement.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have a request for one committee to
meet during today’s session of the Sen-
ate. It has the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.084 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7222 December 19, 2019
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committee is author-
ized to meet during today’s session of
the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, December 19, 2019, at 9:30
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Virginia Flo-
res, a detailee of the Transportation,
Housing and Urban Development, and
Related Agencies Subcommittee, be
granted floor privileges for the debate
and action on H.R. 1158 and H.R. 1865.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO HAROLD THUNE
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, in 1906,
two brothers named Nikolai and Mat-
thew Gjelsvik arrived at Ellis Island
from Norway. The only English they
knew were the words ‘‘apple pie’’ and
‘‘coffee,’’ which evidently they learned
on the boat on the way over.
The immigration officials at Ellis Is-
land thought that their name would be
too difficult to spell and pronounce in
this country, so they asked them to
change their name. The names, when
they got to this country, were Nikolai
Gjelsvik, spelled G-J-E-L-S-V-I-K, and
his brother was named Matthew.
So the immigration officials asked
them to change their name, and they
picked the name from the farm where
they worked near Bergen, Norway,
which was called the Thune farm. So
Nikolai Gjelsvik became Nick Thune,
my grandfather.
He and his brother worked on the
railroad as they built it west across
South Dakota. They learned English
and saved up enough money to start a
small merchandising company and
then later a hardware store in Mitch-
ell, SD. To this day, there is a Thune
Hardware in Mitchell, although the
family sold it many years ago.
In 1916, Nick Thune married an Iowa
girl who had moved to South Dakota to
teach school, and they had three sons.
The middle son, Harold, will turn 100 in
a few days, and that middle son hap-
pens to be my dad.
Like many of my colleagues, I send
congratulatory notes to constituents
for big birthdays and anniversaries. I
never thought I would have the occa-
sion to send one to my dad. I figured
for this one, instead of writing a letter,
I would come to the floor.
My dad is a World War II veteran. He
is a member of that ‘‘greatest genera-
tion,’’ and he shares the qualities of so
many in that generation—humility, pa-
triotism, quiet service. Dad was a Navy
pilot who flew Hellcats off the USS In-
trepid, and he was an excellent pilot. He
received the Distinguished Flying
Cross for shooting down four enemy
planes in one engagement. As a side
note to that, that accommodation was
issued to him by none other than ADM
John McCain, Senator John McCain’s
grandfather.
But my dad didn’t and still doesn’t
talk about his own exploits. In fact,
had it not been for my mom, I am quite
sure I never would have known about
my dad’s record in World War II. I did
have the opportunity to interview him
for the Library of Congress’s Veterans
History Project a few years back, and
he shared some wonderful details about
his service. As usual, his focus was
never on his own achievements but on
those of his fellow pilots.
I also probably would never have
learned what an outstanding athlete
my dad was, had it not been for my
mom. My dad grew up in the small
town of Murdo, SD, during the Great
Depression. They didn’t have a lot, but
there were a lot of basketball hoops
around Murdo. They put them on
barns, poles, garages, and my dad
learned to play. In fact, he learned to
play so well that he took his high
school basketball team to the State
championship game where, although
they lost narrowly, he was named the
tournament’s most valuable player.
My dad had hoped to attend college
in South Dakota, but there was a doc-
tor in Murdo named Joseph Murphy
who thought my dad was good enough
to play at the University of Minnesota
and used his contacts to get my dad up
to Hibbing Junior College in hopes that
the Minnesota Gophers would notice
him. Well, they did. He went to the
Twin Cities on a scholarship and
played three seasons for the Gophers.
He was the team’s most valuable play-
er in his junior year. In fact, he was
high point man in Madison Square Gar-
den on his birthday, December 28, 1940.
In another example of how things
have changed through the years, my
dad said that when his team came out
to play for the second game that night
at the Garden, you couldn’t see the
upper deck because of all the cigarette
smoke. Some things do change for the
better.
While at the University of Min-
nesota, my dad met a girl who served
sodas at a drugstore just off campus.
They were married within a couple of
years while my dad was in flight train-
ing for the Navy, and they spent the
next almost 69 years together.
After the war, they came back to
South Dakota. My dad had been think-
ing about a career in the Navy, but his
dad asked him to come back and run
the family hardware store. My dad said
that his heart sank, but he knew that
is what he had to do. So he went home
and went to work for his dad. The hard-
ware store did OK for a while, but
started to struggle. My dad sold it and
went back to school and got a teaching
degree.
All parents are teachers for their
kids, but my parents were teachers sev-
eral times over. Kids usually get a
break from their parents when they are
at school. My dad was a teacher at my
high school. He was also a coach and
the athletic director, and he drove the
bus. My mom was the school librarian.
So I think it is safe to say that my
brothers and sister and I were pretty
much always under the watchful eye of
my parents. I have to say that I never
had my dad for a class in high school,
but my brother Rich did. Rich was the
valedictorian of his high school class,
and the only B he got in high school
was from my dad. That was my dad for
you. He never showed any preference or
gave any of his kids better treatment
than anybody else. In fact, some of us
might argue that he gave us a harder
time because we were his kids. But he
believed very firmly that you had to
earn your achievements.
As a coach, my dad taught us about
being a team player. He made it clear
that being on a team was not about
building your personal statistics but
about making the players around you
better. It is a lesson I have carried
throughout my life and one that I try
to live by every day.
A few years ago, the Jones County
School District in Murdo named the
auditorium in Murdo after my dad in
recognition of his service and achieve-
ments at the school. It was particu-
larly special since my dad was one of
the volunteers who originally built the
auditorium back in the 1950s. My dad
would tell me the story that he was
more scared up on the scaffolding of
that building than he had ever been
flying off a carrier during World War
II.
You might think that with my dad as
coach and athletic director, sports
were the main focus around our house.
They certainly were a big part of our
lives. But my mom was determined
that we would grow up to be well-
rounded people, and my dad always
supported her in that. They worked
hard to ensure that we grew up with a
perspective on life that went beyond
just the latest sporting event. Mom
made us take piano lessons and, during
the summers, come in from outside and
read for an hour every day. We com-
plained at the time, but I know all of
us today are grateful to her and my fa-
ther for their investments in that.
Mom and Dad made a good team.
Mom was an optimist, and Dad was a
pessimist—or, as he would put it, a re-
alist—and they balanced each other
out well. We didn’t have material
riches growing up, but we were beyond
rich in those things that money can’t
buy but that lend purpose, joy, and
meaning to life. All of us Thune kids
are very, very grateful for that herit-
age.
I can’t close without talking about
something that was life-changing for
my parents, and that was their strong
faith in Christ. My dad always had real
discernment and wisdom in no small
part because of his daily dependence
upon God in his life. God blessed him
with it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.085 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7223
December 19, 2019
As we celebrate my dad’s 100th birth-
day, I want to say thank you to you for
the example of faith, integrity, char-
acter, and humility that you have
given to me and to Bob and to Rich and
to Karen and to Tim. Thank you for
faithfully serving God’s purpose for
your generation and happy 100th birth-
day.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
f
REMEMBERING WILLIAM
EBELTOFT
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, we have
had a fruitful day here today. We
passed a lot of bills. We did it in a bi-
partisan way. I want to thank both
Leader MCCONNELL and Leader SCHU-
MER for their good work, as well as
Chairman SHELBY and Ranking Mem-
ber LEAHY for their good work on these
bills.
Today, I am going to do something
that I have never done before. I am
going to read an obituary about a man
I don’t believe I have ever met, even
though I was in the Veterans’ Home of
Columbia Falls while he was there.
This obituary was passed on to me by
my wife, who got it from a friend. It is
incredibly powerful because, quite
frankly, it is about one man, but it is
actually about a generation of men and
women who served in Vietnam.
This guy’s name was William
Ebeltoft. The obituary goes like this:
‘‘Not everyone who lost his life in Vietnam
died there.’’ The saying is true for CW2 Wil-
liam C. Ebeltoft. He died on December 15,
2019 at the Veteran’s Home in Columbia
Falls, Montana. He died 50 years after he
lost, in Vietnam, all that underpinned his
life. He was 73 years old.
Everyone called him ‘‘Bill.’’ He was loved
by the nursing staff who cared for him. He
was loved by the fellow veterans with whom
he lived; those he helped when he was able
and entertained with funny German slang
and a stint at the piano when he could. He
was a virtuoso when playing ‘‘Waltzing Ma-
tilda.’’
His small family loved him dearly. He was
preceded in death by his parents, Paul and
Mary Ebeltoft of Dickinson, North Dakota,
whose devotion and care for their war-dam-
aged boy was strong and unfailing. He is sur-
vived by his brother, Paul Ebeltoft, and the
one he loved as the sister he never had,
Paul’s wife, Gail. . . . It is difficult to write
about Bill. He lived three lives: before, dur-
ing and after Vietnam. Before Vietnam, Bill
was a handsome man, who wore clothing
well; a man with white, straight teeth that
showed in his ready smile. A state champion
trap shooter, a low handicap golfer, a 218-av-
erage bowler, a man of quick, earthy wit,
with a fondness for children, old men, hunt-
ing, fast cars, and a cold Schlitz. He told
jokes well.
During Vietnam, he lived with horrors of
which he would only seldom speak. Slow Mo-
tion Four, Bill’s personal call sign, logged
thousands of helicopter flight hours per-
forming Forward Support Base resupply
landings, medical evacuations, exfils and gun
ship runs. We know of him there mostly
through medals for valor he received, and
these were many. . . . While attempting to
resupply B Company, [Warrant Officer]
Ebeltoft’s co-pilot became wounded. Real-
izing the importance of the mission WO
Ebeltoft elected to attempt completion of
the mission. Due to his superior knowledge
of the aircraft, the helicopter was kept under
control during the period in which the pilot
was wounded and the ship was under fire. Re-
maining under attack from automatic weap-
ons fire, the supply mission was successfully
completed. While unloading the supplies, WO
Ebeltoft received word that there were five
emergency medical evacuation cases located
200 meters to his rear. WO Ebeltoft re-posi-
tioned his helicopter and picked up the
wounded personnel. While evacuating the
wounded, the commanding officer of Com-
pany B was injured. WO Ebeltoft again ma-
neuvered his aircraft to enable evacuation of
the injured officer. WO Ebeltoft then pro-
ceeded to evacuate all injured personnel by
the fastest possible means. Upon completion,
examination of the aircraft revealed that the
aircraft had sustained nine enemy .30 caliber
hits.
Bill got the medal, of course, but he would
have been the last to say anything about it.
The citation shows the type of man that he,
and many of his brothers-in-arms in Vietnam
were; and still are today, albeit battered
hard and unfairly by the cruel winds of the
time in which they fought.
After being discharged as a decorated hero,
Bill had a rough re-entry into civilian life. It
is not necessary to recount Bill’s portion of
what is an all-too-common story for wartime
veterans, particularly those of the Vietnam
era. It may be sufficient to say that after a
run at business, a marriage and while grap-
pling daily with his demons, his mental fac-
ulties escaped him. Bill became a resident of
the Veteran’s Home in Columbia Falls, Mon-
tana in 1994. He lived there for the next 26
years.
At the Home, the patina of his memory
covered life’s sorrows, and it was a blessing.
Bill was happy there, living a life that was a
strange mixture of hunting stories, pickup
trucks and memories of some of his better
times with women, friends and the outdoor
life. Bill denied that anyone he loved had
died; could not understand why anyone
would fill with gas at four bucks a gallon
when ‘‘Johnny’s Standard sells it for 27
cents;’’ and still ‘‘drove’’ his 1968 Dodge
Charger. He was unfailingly courteous. His
largest concerns were making his smoke
breaks and finding his wallet (a search of 26
years.)
In the past year, Bill’s shaky grip on phys-
ical health also slipped through his fingers.
Yet, despite this, what we loved in him re-
mained, if only sometimes as a shadow. Even
after his serious decline, suffering fractures
because of falls, Bill would tell the staff that
he was ‘‘just fine’’ and not to worry about
him. Thin, hunched over, propelling himself
with one foot, he would wheel himself into
the room of a bed-ridden veteran and sit
there, next to the bed, unspeaking. The nurs-
ing staff was certain that Bill thought that
the man in bed was lonely and needed com-
pany.
Bill was always a proud man, remembering
himself as he was in 1969, not as he became.
Who are we to suggest differently? His was
not a life that many would wish for, but in
some ways, Bill was a lucky man. He was
surrounded to the end by staff who enjoyed
and respected him. He had a chance to be
helpful to others who were doing less well
than he. And the passing of the seasons never
diminished his plans for another elk hunt or
to ‘‘see that beautiful girl again this week-
end.’’
When a small slice of reality penetrated
his pleasant confusion, Bill struggled to un-
derstand why he was where he was. Pre-
maturely aged, his worldly goods in a small
dresser, not knowing who the President
might be or remembering why he should
care, Bill’s losses were greater than most of
us could endure. Yet, to those who love him,
his brother and his brother’s wife, and their
sons, he will always be a brave, accomplished
man, more generous than was wise, more
trusting than was safe.
It is not possible to wrap your arms around
a loved one who leaves. But it is possible to
wrap your heart around a memory. Bill’s will
be well taken care of.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
f
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA
TRADE AGREEMENT
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I am
here on the floor again for the third
time in 3 weeks to talk about the U.S.-
Mexico agreement, USMCA.
Just a few moments ago, this trade
agreement passed the House of Rep-
resentatives by a vote of 385 to 41. That
is extraordinary. Trade agreements
sometimes tend to be pretty controver-
sial and, more recently in our history,
pretty partisan. In this case, Repub-
licans and Democrats alike helped ne-
gotiate a good agreement, and Repub-
licans and Democrats alike supported
it.
Let’s now get that agreement over
here. Let’s not wait. The people in Ohio
and all around in country who are
going to benefit from it need those ben-
efits now.
So I am very pleased that the Presi-
dent and his U.S. Trade Representa-
tive, Bob Lighthizer, patiently nego-
tiated with Speaker PELOSI and House
Democrats and were able to get some-
thing done, and now it is close to be-
coming the law of the land. All it needs
is a vote over here from the Senate and
then the President will sign it into law.
Thanks to important measures de-
signed to strengthen our economy, cre-
ate more jobs, and increase market ac-
cess, this new agreement, the USMCA,
actually helps to level the playing field
between the United States and Canada
and Mexico.
First of all, it is going to result in
more jobs. The independent Inter-
national Trade Commission has said
over 170,000 new jobs. That is mid-
range. It could be a lot more than that.
But they have also said that these
are good-paying jobs. Jobs in trade
tend to pay about 15 percent higher on
average, and they have better benefits.
So this is a bunch of good jobs.
By the way, they estimate that at
least 20,000 jobs in the auto industry
will come to the United States that
would not have come otherwise. I come
from Ohio, a big auto State. It is a
State that cares a lot about manufac-
turing and, specifically, autos, and
they are both going to be helped by
this agreement.
Part of the way that it is going to
create jobs here is by leveling the play-
ing field on labor standards and enforc-
ing those standards.
Also, it has higher content require-
ments for U.S.-made steel and intra
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.070 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7224 December 19, 2019
auto parts that go into an automobile.
As an example, USMCA requires that
70 percent of the steel going into cars
come from North America. There is no
provision like that in the status quo, in
the NAFTA agreement. So this is a big
improvement for us to drive more jobs
here in America with regard to the
steel production that goes into auto-
mobiles.
But, second, it says that 75 percent of
the overall content in USMCA auto-
mobiles that are sold through this
agreement have to be from North
America. That is a big jump. In the
current agreement, instead of 75 per-
cent, NAFTA has 62.5 percent.
What does that mean? It means that
if you make a car, say, in Mexico, and
it has a bunch of parts in it that come
from other countries, say, Japan or
China or Germany, they can’t take ad-
vantage of the USMCA’s lower tariffs
unless they have at least 75 percent
North American content. So that is a
big difference.
Now, there are some, including on
my side of the aisle, that have criti-
cized this provision and said that some-
how this is a protectionist provision.
Let me just make this point. We are
agreeing with Canada and Mexico that
we are going to have a new agreement
with them that lowers barriers, tariffs,
and non-tariff barriers on our borders
with Canada and Mexico. We are taking
advantage of that, with each other
trading back and forth. That is why we
will have more trade. That is why we
will have more jobs.
If other countries want to take ad-
vantage of that by coming into Mexico
or Canada and adding parts to the cars,
they are free riders because they are
not giving us the reciprocal access to
their markets as Canada and Mexico
are. That is why I think this agree-
ment makes sense.
Now, I think it will incentivize two
things. One, it will incentivize more
jobs here—auto jobs, manufacturing
jobs, steel jobs. But, second, it will
incentivize those other countries to
enter into a trade agreement with us.
We have talked about this with
Japan. We have taken the first step in
starting to put together what is consid-
ered a broader free trade agreement. I
hope we get to one. It would be impor-
tant.
But if they can simply free ride on
existing agreements by having their
stuff be transshipped from another
country into the United States to take
advantage of the lower tariffs that we
are providing to Canada and Mexico,
they wouldn’t have that incentive to
trade with us with their own agree-
ment. So I think this is a good thing
for encouraging more trade agreements
and more trade openness.
The International Trade Commission
also tells us that the USMCA is going
to grow our economy. In fact, they say
it is going to grow our economy by
double the gross domestic product of
that which was projected under the
Trans-Pacific Partnership. Some may
remember that agreement, the TPP.
Many of my colleagues, particularly
on the other side of the aisle, held that
agreement up as one that would have
been great for America and that we
should be part of it. I think it is impor-
tant that we trade with our neighbors
in Latin America and in the Pacific
Rim, but, frankly, that agreement that
was touted as being so great had less
than half of the economic growth that
we are talking about here. So this has
more than doubled the economic
growth we saw in the TPP.
Second, the USMCA means new rules
of the road for online sales. This is
really important. So much of our econ-
omy today and our commerce takes
place online, and yet there is nothing
in NAFTA on it. If you think about it,
25 years ago there was no significant
online commerce, and so there is noth-
ing in the agreement. Whereas, in this
agreement, there are a few things that
are very important.
For my State of Ohio and, really, for
our entire country, a lot of our com-
merce is done online now. We have a
lot of small businesses engaged in it.
They want to do business with Mexico
and Canada, but they have no protec-
tions—no protections from tariffs.
They can be assessed on that trade.
This says no tariffs.
Also, data localization is something
some countries are doing to American
online companies. So if you are in on-
line commerce in America, another
country may say: Do you know what?
You can do business in our country
only if you localize your data, meaning
the servers have to be in our country—
in Mexico or in Canada, as an example.
This agreement says no. It prohibits
that data localization requirement,
which allows us to sell more to those
countries without having to place our
servers there.
It also says that the de minimis level
on customs duties for sales online is in-
creased. This saves money because peo-
ple can now be involved in commerce
with Canada and Mexico and not pay as
much in terms of the customs duties
and the tariffs, but there are also in-
credible administrative burdens being
lifted by not having to worry about
that. So this is good for us because we
do a lot of online commerce here.
Third, I would say that American
farmers are strongly behind this agree-
ment for a good reason, which is that it
opens up more markets for them and
adds more certainty for them. Again,
the NAFTA accord is 25 years old, and
we had hoped during the last 25 years
that we would get at some of the pro-
tectionist policies, particularly with
regard to Canada and with regard to
dairy and wheat and other issues, but
we didn’t have much success until now.
Now, with the USMCA, we have the
ability to send more of our stuff to
these countries, and that is why the ag
community is so excited about it. Be-
tween bad weather, low prices, and a
shrinking China market, our farmers
have been hit hard, and this is a light
at the end of the tunnel. That is why,
by the way, over 1,000 farm groups have
come out in support of USMCA.
There are a lot of folks I hear talking
who say one side won or one side lost
in the negotiations over USMCA. I
don’t think that is it. I think because
of the hard work of U.S. Trade Rep-
resentative Bob Lighthizer and the
Trump administration and President
Trump himself supporting this and
pushing it, I think neither side won but
the American people won. And isn’t
that nice to see? I think that is why
you saw today on the floor of the House
of Representatives a vote of 385 to 41.
I think now more people are going to
be able to benefit from trade with these
two countries. For Ohio, Canada is, by
far, our largest trading partner. Mexico
is No. 2. So this is a big deal. It is more
modernized trade. We have replaced an
agreement that has shown its age with
unenforceable labor standards and en-
vironmental standards, non-existent
digital economy provisions, and out-
dated rules-of-origin provisions. This
changes all that.
We waited long enough. It is time,
now that the House has voted—as I
said, this evening, which was great
news—to get that legislation over here
to ensure that we do have great victory
for American farmers, for small busi-
nesses, for our manufacturers, for our
online businesses, and so many others.
I look forward to the opportunity to
be able to vote for it over here.
f
COMBATING METH AND COCAINE
ACT
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I
would also like to talk for a moment
about the legislation we just passed on
the appropriations side.
There were two bills. One focused
more on the national security and de-
fense side. There are a lot of good
things in there for Ohio, including the
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, and
also for the Lima Tank Plant. Also,
much more importantly, it is good for
our military—for our men and women
in uniform, who are on the frontlines
every day, sacrificing for us.
We have shown through this legisla-
tion we just passed that we appreciate
them. There is not only a pay raise, but
also we are providing them the equip-
ment and the modern technology they
need to be able to be successful.
But I also noticed in the agreement
that just passed, the first appropria-
tions bill, that there is really impor-
tant language with regard to the drug
crisis that we face in this country.
I see my colleague SHELDON WHITE-
HOUSE is on the floor. I have worked
with him over the years on the Com-
prehensive Addiction and Recovery
Act. Now we have a CARA 2.0 bill that
we would like to see passed.
But the bottom line is that this
House and Senate and President Obama
and now President Trump have begun
to address this problem in different
ways over the last 3 or 4 years, and it
is beginning to work. We are finally be-
ginning to see, with regard to the
opioid crisis, some success.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.072 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7225
December 19, 2019
Recall that the opioid crisis is the
worst drug epidemic we have ever faced
in this country. In 2017, 72,000 Ameri-
cans lost their lives to overdoses. That
is more than we lost in the entire Viet-
nam war. Last year, we had a little
better number. After 12 years of in-
creases every year in overdose deaths,
finally, last year, we had a slight de-
crease, and I think it is because of a lot
of good work that has been done here,
particularly with regard to the opioid
crisis.
In Ohio, unfortunately, we have been
in the center of the storm. We have
been one of the top two or three States
in the country in terms of overdose
deaths.
Last year, in 2018, because of all the
hard work we have done here at the
Federal level, at the State level, and at
the local level, we actually saw a de-
crease. We led the country with a 22-
percent decrease in overdose deaths. So
that is the good news, and it is because
of the Comprehensive Addiction Recov-
ery Act, which is bipartisan and which
is working to provide more treatment
and recovery services, to provide better
prevention, and to provide more
Narcan to reverse the effects of
overdoses. It is also because of the 21st
Century Cures Act, which provides
funding for evidence-based programs to
the States and the States decide how it
is spent.
I was back home just this past week
meeting with people who are getting
the benefit of those programs. On Mon-
day, I was at a home in Dayton, OH,
that provides residential treatment for
women who are addicted and pregnant
and helps their children to be able to
overcome the neonatal abstinence syn-
drome when they are born to a mother
who is using. It is beginning to work.
I met two mothers who have turned
their lives around, and I saw a beau-
tiful baby who, at 5 weeks old, is going
into the world brighter, cheerier, and
with more opportunity because of the
work that we have done here to provide
funding to help.
But I will say we have found, having
made progress on opioids, that other
drugs are starting to come into our
communities. This is not just an opioid
problem. This is an addiction problem,
and addiction is a disease that must be
treated like other diseases.
Although we have made progress, we
can’t rest on our laurels. When I talk
to those on the frontlines, as I did on
Monday in Dayton with law enforce-
ment—the sheriff was there for Mont-
gomery County—but also to treatment
providers, to those who are in the
trenches, and talking to those who are
recovering addicts who were there,
they tell me about what is happening,
which is that, increasingly, other
drugs, including psychostimulants like
crystal meth and cocaine, are making a
horrible comeback in those commu-
nities.
Crystal meth coming in from Mexico
is more pure and less expensive than
ever. In fact, law enforcement tells me
that on the streets of Columbus, Day-
ton, Cleveland, or Cincinnati, crystal
meth is sometimes less expensive than
marijuana and yet much more powerful
and much more dangerous.
So it is important that here in Con-
gress we focus on how to respond to
that. Although we have some great leg-
islation out there with regard to opioid
addiction, treatment, recovery, and
how to deal with this, we have not done
as well with regard to these new drugs
coming in.
Part of the solution, of course, is to
build up our security at our southern
border, where we have seen larger and
larger quantities of crystal meth, man-
ufactured in Mexico, being brought
into our country by these cartels from
super labs, as they call them, in Mex-
ico.
By the way, there were crystal meth
labs over the years, but the volume was
not nearly as high, and the cost was
much higher. Now that it is cheaper
and there is higher volume, you see the
meth labs in our communities closing
down, but for the wrong reason. It is
not being made here anymore because
the stuff coming from Mexico is so
much more pure, more powerful, more
deadly, and less expensive.
So for the people already struggling
with methamphetamine or cocaine ad-
diction, it is important that they have
access to treatment, too, so they can
get help.
What I have heard at the local level
is this: We appreciate the funding on
opioids, but we want more flexibility
now to be able to use this funding to
combat what is, in many of our com-
munities, in Ohio, even a bigger prob-
lem, which is crystal meth and some-
times cocaine.
So I am pleased to say that in the
legislation that we just passed here
this evening, legislation that provides
appropriations to deal with this addic-
tion issue, we have provided that flexi-
bility. We have said: Yes, we are going
to continue to provide grants to help
with regard to prevention and treat-
ment and recovery and help with re-
gard to getting people back on their
feet and helping law enforcement, but
we are going to allow local commu-
nities to use this funding both for
opioids and for crystal meth and other
drugs.
So my hope is that what we will see
is some of the same progress we have
made in opioids now happen with re-
gard to some of these other substances.
I have introduced a bill called the
Combating Meth and Cocaine Act—I in-
troduced it in June of this year—to
allow this kind of flexibility. That is
an authorization bill that has already
been introduced, and we have good bi-
partisan support for that.
But we went ahead today in these ap-
propriations bill and did it for this
year. So for this fiscal year, essen-
tially, that legislation will be in effect.
So for 2020 we are going to provide that
flexibility.
I applaud the Senate appropriators
for doing that. Again, I am proud of
Congress showing that we can be flexi-
ble and continue to fight a many-front
war on this issue. It is not just about
opioids. It is about addiction.
We also need to pass the authoriza-
tion bill, the Combating Meth and Co-
caine Act, and I hope that we will be
able to do that after the first of the
year to ensure that we can continue to
address these public health threats and
we can continue to provide for those
whose future is so dim because of the
addiction, and instead they be able to
achieve their God-given purpose in life.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
f
SIGNING AUTHORITY
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that I be author-
ized to sign duly enrolled bills and
joint resolutions during today’s session
of Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The Majority Lead-
er.
f
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, for
the information of all of our col-
leagues, earlier this afternoon, my
friend the Democratic leader and I had
a cordial conversation. We discussed a
potential path forward following the
House Democrats’ precedent-breaking
impeachment of President Trump. Our
conversation was cordial, but my
friend from New York continues to in-
sist on departing from the unanimous
bipartisan precedent that 100 Senators
approved before the beginning of Presi-
dent Clinton’s trial.
Back in 1999, Senators recognized
that there might well be disagreements
about questions that would arise at the
middle and end of the trial, such as
witnesses. Here is what happened: All
100 Senators endorsed a commonsense
solution. We divided the process into
two stages. The first resolution passed
unanimously before the trial began. It
laid the groundwork, such as sched-
uling and structured early steps like
opening arguments. Mid-trial questions
such as witnesses were left until the
middle of the trial when Senators could
make a more informed judgment about
that more contentious issue. All 100
Senators, including me, including Mr.
SCHUMER, and a number of our col-
leagues on both sides who were here in
1999 endorsed the first resolution as a
bipartisan, minimalist first step.
As of today, however, we remain at
an impasse because my friend the
Democratic leader continues to de-
mand a new and different set of rules
for President Trump. He wants to
break from that unanimous bipartisan
precedent and force an all-or-nothing
approach. My colleague wants a special
pretrial guarantee of certain witnesses
whom the House Democrats themselves
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.073 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7226 December 19, 2019
did not bother to pursue as they assem-
bled their case, or he wants to proceed
without giving any organizational res-
olution whatsoever. As I said, we re-
main at an impasse on these logistics.
For myself, I continue to believe that
the unanimous bipartisan precedent
that was good enough for President
Clinton ought to be good enough for
President Trump. Fair is fair.
Now, of course, there is the matter of
the Articles of Impeachment them-
selves. It is a highly unusual step. The
House continues to hem and haw about
whether and when she intends to take
the normal next step and transmit the
House’s accusations over here to the
Senate. Some House Democrats imply
they are withholding the articles for
some kind of leverage so they can dic-
tate the Senate process to Senators.
I admit, I am not sure what leverage
there is in refraining from sending us
something we do not want; but, alas, if
they can figure that out, they can ex-
plain it. Meanwhile, other House
Democrats seem to be suggesting they
prefer never to transmit the articles.
That is fine with me, and the Speaker
of the House herself has been unclear
on this. Her message has been some-
what muddled.
So here is where we are, Mr. Presi-
dent. We have a curious situation
where, following House Democrats’
rush to impeachment, following weeks
of pronouncement about the urgency of
the situation, the prosecutors appear
to have developed cold feet. The House
Democrat prosecution seems to have
gotten cold feet and to be unsure of
whether they even want to proceed to
the trial.
As I said, a very unusual spectacle
and, in my view, certainly not one that
reflects well on the House. So we will
see whether House Democrats ever
want to work up the courage to actu-
ally take their accusations to trial.
Let me close with this: I am proud
that the Senate came together today
to confirm more well-qualified nomi-
nees and to pass major legislation for
the American people.
I wish all of my colleagues a merry
Christmas, happy holidays, and a joy-
ous new year. I hope everyone enjoys
this important time with their families
and loved ones. We will see you in 2020.
f
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, fi-
nally, for the information of all of our
colleagues, the Senate will convene on
Friday, January 3, to kick off the 2nd
session of the 116th Congress. However,
no rollcall votes are expected that day,
and Members should be prepared to be
back and voting on Monday, January 6.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
SECURING AMERICAN NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS AGAINST TER-
RORISM ACT OF 2019
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, as we
all know, there have been increased in-
cidents of violence and threats against
some of our faith-based institutions
over the past decade. The FBI has been
able to monitor this and unfortunately
tells us that these attacks are likely to
continue. We need to do a better job of
figuring out how to disrupt these at-
tacks but also to harden these facili-
ties.
When the Tree of Life synagogue in
Pittsburgh was attacked, it was the
worst anti-Semitic violence in the his-
tory of our country. Shortly after that,
I went to Youngstown, OH, which is
very near the Pittsburgh synagogue
that was attacked. It was within the
next week or two afterwards, and there
were very raw feelings, as you can
imagine. We talked about what was
needed to provide better protection for
houses of worship—our synagogues, our
churches, our mosques—and we came
up with an idea to provide for a grant
program from the expertise of the De-
partment of Homeland Security where
they could provide best practices, con-
sulting, placement of cameras, you
know, where it is necessary to harden
facilities, where it is necessary to have
a door with locks—simple things that
can save lives.
That program has now been appro-
priated. In the legislation we just
passed, there was a $90 million appro-
priation for this program. The Jewish
community, the Christian community,
the Muslim community, the Sikh com-
munity, the Hindu community, and
others are very supportive of this pro-
gram.
H.R. 2476 is the legislation I am talk-
ing about this evening, called the Se-
curing American Nonprofit Organiza-
tions Against Terrorism Act. Tonight,
I am hopeful that we can pass, by
unanimous consent, this legislation. In
the appropriations bill, there is a $90
million appropriation from Congress
for the program for this fiscal year.
Our authorization bill is at $75 million.
Again, it is a very important program.
I am pleased that the Department of
Homeland Security has recently
changed its rules to allow these insti-
tutions to use the funds not just for
cameras, locks, and other hardening
but also for armed guards where nec-
essary. Sadly, it is necessary to disrupt
and stop some of these hate crimes
that are occurring.
Senator MIKE LEE had some concerns
about the cost. I understand his con-
cern. We are going to keep the cost in
an efficient and effective manner—
going to the organizations that really
need it. I appreciate his talking to me
about that tonight and his willingness
to allow us to move forward on this
legislation.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs be
discharged from further consideration
of H.R. 2476 and the Senate proceed to
its immediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 2476) to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to provide funding to se-
cure nonprofit facilities from terrorist at-
tacks, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. PORTMAN. I further ask that
the bill be considered read a third time
and passed and the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 2476) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
FALLEN WARRIOR BATTLEFIELD CROSS
MEMORIAL ACT
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, an-
other bill has been cleared tonight that
I would like to ask the U.S. Senate to
provide unanimous consent for. This is
legislation called the Fallen Warrior
Battlefield Cross Memorial Act. This
comes out of a situation in Ohio where
some of our veterans were not per-
mitted to have a battlefield cross at
their grave site.
Senator BROWN, myself, and other
Members have been supportive of this
legislation, and tonight I am pleased to
say that we now have unanimous con-
sent from the other side of the aisle to
proceed with it.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs be discharged from further con-
sideration of H.R. 1424 and that the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 1424) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs permits the display of Fallen
Soldier Displays in national cemeteries.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. PORTMAN. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time and passed and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 1424) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.075 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7227
December 19, 2019
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to executive session and to
the consideration of the following nom-
ination: Executive Calendar No. 497.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of LaJuana S.
Wilcher, of Kentucky, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Federal
Agricultural Mortgage Corporation.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nomination with no intervening action
or debate; that if confirmed, the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order and that any state-
ments related to the nomination be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
an objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Wilcher nomi-
nation?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation be discharged from
PN1228 and the Senate proceed to the
en bloc consideration of the following
nominations: PN1228, Executive Cal-
endar Nos. 492 and 496.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nominations of Thomas B.
Chapman, of Maryland, to be a Member
of the National Transportation Safety
Board for a term expiring December 31,
2023; Michael Graham, of Kansas, to be
a Member of the National Transpor-
tation Safety Board for a term expiring
December 31, 2020; Michael Graham, of
Kansas, to be a Member of the National
Transportation Safety Board for a
term expiring December 31, 2025. (Re-
appointment)
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the nominations
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nominations en bloc with no inter-
vening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table en bloc; that the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tions; that no further motions be in
order; and that any statements related
to the nominations be printed in the
RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Chapman, Gra-
ham, and Graham (Reappointment)
nominations, en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of the
following nomination: Executive Cal-
endar No. 553.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of J. Brett
Blanton, of Virginia, to be Architect of
the Capitol for the term of ten years.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nomination with no intervening action
or debate; that if confirmed, the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments related to the nomination be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Blanton nomi-
nation?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Committee on For-
eign Relations be discharged and the
Senate proceed to the consideration of
PN1318, 1319, and 1321; that the nomina-
tions be confirmed; that the motions to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate; that no further motions
be in order; that any statements to the
nominations be printed in the RECORD
and the President be immediately noti-
fied of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nominations considered and con-
firmed are as follows:
The following-named Members of the For-
eign Service of the Department of State to
be a Foreign Service Officer, a Consular Offi-
cer, and a Secretary in the Diplomatic Serv-
ice of the United States of America:
Shon Stephen Belcher, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Charles C. Blake III, of the District of Co-
lumbia
David L. Bruns, of Florida
Pedro G. Campo-Boue, of Florida
Hsiao-Ching Chang, of California
Jasmin S. Cho, of Washington
Nurit S. Einik, of Florida
Michael H. Elliott, of Wyoming
Lindsay C. Fair, of Texas
Leslie M. Fenton, of California
Owen P. Fletcher, of California
William West Follmer, of Maryland
Jean M. Foster, of Colorado
Nicholas J. Geboy, of the District of Colum-
bia
Elizabeth A. Gee, of Florida
Juliana E. Hanson, of North Carolina
Richard E. Heater, of Texas
Dennie S. Hoopingarner, of Michigan
Jeffry A. Jackson, of Connecticut
Joshua W. Kamp, of New York
Joseph J. Kim, of the District of Columbia
Olena A. Krawciw, of Virginia
Laura A. MacArthur, of California
Caroline J. Mann, of Florida
Brian C. McKean, of Florida
Keavy C. Nahan, of Texas
Paul A. Roelle, of Pennsylvania
Jennine R. Rudnitski, of Minnesota
Timothy C. Sarraille, of Virginia
Adam L. Schick, of Washington
Cigdem Zeynep Soyluoglu-Hoyt, of Cali-
fornia
Tyler J. Stoddard, of Idaho
Shravan Surendra, of Virginia
Brittany D. Thompson, of Virginia
Aaron D. Tiffany, of Washington
Dimitri Varmazis, of Massachusetts
Jonathan Blake Vaughan, of Tennessee
Tamara Lyn Picardo Rivera Wilson, of Vir-
ginia
Kathryn M. Wiseman, of Texas
The following-named Career Members of
the Foreign Service for promotion into the
Senior Foreign Service, as a Career Member
of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Coun-
selor, and a Consular Officer and a Secretary
in the Diplomatic Service of the United
States of America:
Gharun S. Lacy, of Maryland
David Mango, of New York
The following-named Members of the For-
eign Service of the Department of State to
be a Consular Officer and a Secretary in the
Diplomatic Service of the United States of
America:
Kara Miriam Abramson, of the District of
Columbia
Eunice O. Ajayi, of Maryland
Dane Dixson Allen-Bryant, of the District of
Columbia
Robert Steven Baker, of Virginia
Daniel Dee Barello, of Virginia
Kevin Silas Barlow, of Georgia
Nikki Barnes, of Maryland
Tyra Zuri Hayes Beaman, of Virginia
Aaron Walter Becker, of Virginia
Rami Lowell Blair, of Rhode Island
Joseph Thorel Bodell, of Virginia
Miguel Alexander Boluda, of the District of
Columbia
Samantha R. BonenClark, of Florida
Stefanie Michelle Braswell, of the District of
Columbia
Daniel John Buchman, of New York
Thomas Adams Buckley, of Virginia
Robert Scott Bunch, of Virginia
Taryn E. Burton, of Virginia
Randall Eugene Bussman, of Virginia
Coleman David Butterworth, of Virginia
Corinne Denise Calabro, of Virginia
Nichelle I. Carter, of Maryland
Caitlin Marie Cassot, of Washington
Eduardo Castillo, Jr., of Texas
Min-Ling Chang, of Maryland
Lillian Katharine Chreky, of Virginia
Anthony Cyprian Christian, of Maryland
Matthew Franklin Clark, of Virginia
Kempton J. Cox, of Idaho
Cory David Curran, of Virginia
John R. Daniliuk, of the District of Colum-
bia
Daniel Alan DeGroff, of Florida
Alexandra R. Del Solar, of the District of Co-
lumbia
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.090 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7228 December 19, 2019
Tariq Q. Desir, of Virginia
Saumya V. Deva, of California
Anika Marie DeVolder, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Rurik H. Diehl, of Virginia
Jacob E. Dietrich, of Kentucky
Surayya Imani Diggs, of New York
Christa L. Divis, of South Carolina
Bennett K. Domingues, of Virginia
Joyce E. Dudley, of Maryland
Mark Philip Duggan, of Virginia
Stephen Edinger, of Virginia
Kelsey Brooke Egan, of Virginia
Nurmukhamed A. Eldosov, of Ohio
Gregory R. Elrod, of South Carolina
Steven M. Elwood, of Virginia
Maryan Adel Fouad Farag, of Virginia
Christopher Franklin, of Maryland
Sydney L. Freeman, of New Jersey
Sayer French, of Virginia
James Andrew Galindo, of Virginia
Katie Vanessa Garay, of Virginia
Beau Paul Garrett, of Washington
Kuros Ghaffari, of the District of Columbia
Emily Ruth Goodell, of Virginia
Daniel Guindon, of Virginia
Ameera Rumana Hamid, of the District of
Columbia
John Joseph Harrington III, of the District
of Columbia
Allison Kelly Haugen, of Washington
Corey A. Henton, of Virginia
Sarah Melissa Hernandez, of Texas
Matthew H. Hinson, of New Jersey
Dylan R. Hoey, of Wisconsin
Alexander Joseph Holmes, of Virginia
Lauren E. Holt, of the District of Columbia
Jesse J. Hong, of the District of Columbia
Lauren Kimberly Hovis, of Virginia
Tony Hudson, Jr., of Georgia
Christine Rene Huff, of Virginia
Terrell Dwayne Hunt, of Indiana
Andrew William Hutto, of Virginia
Betty Ngoc Huynh, of the District of Colum-
bia
Ty Anthony Isom, of Virginia
Nathan R. Johnson, of Minnesota
Gregory K. Joy, of New York
Waqqas Khalid, of the District of Columbia
Andrew J. King, of Virginia
Johanna L. Knoch, of Colorado
Keshia Mae Kuhn, of Tennessee
Freddy Ouandja Lakoundzi, of Virginia
Sean M. Lawlor, of Virginia
Hilary B. Lepuil, of Virginia
Brian Geoffrey Lipski, of Virginia
Ingrid Jenai Lomax, of Virginia
Patrick Joseph Lukanich, of Virginia
Michael Patrick Lynch, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Brendan Elias Magnuson, of Virginia
Henry Patrick Mahoney, of Virginia
Michael P. Marette, of Virginia
James M. Marino, of Virginia
Lynn Edmonds McCredy, Jr., of Virginia
Heather Ailene McInnis, of Virginia
Alexander Paul McKenney, of Virginia
Andreo Micic, of Virginia
Larissa M. Mihalisko, of Virginia
Brandon Milford, of Virginia
Vanessa Jane Moglin, of Virginia
Marc Andrew Monroig, of New York
William Robert Montgomery, of Virginia
Sanjay Y. Murty, of Virginia
Aseebulla A. Niazi, of New Hampshire
Steven Paul Nicholson, of Florida
Ashley Jo Niedermayer, of Virginia
Kimberly G. Ofobike, of Virginia
Christel Oomen, of Oregon
Kelsey Ann Orr, of North Carolina
Mary E. Overbeck, of Virginia
Noor Badreldin Oweis, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Laura J. Park, of the District of Columbia
Catherine Nicole Plant, of Virginia
Benjamin Michael Quinn, of Virginia
Grayson Edward Ramsey, of Virginia
Gregory J. Redmann, of Virginia
Tyler Jay Reis, of the District of Columbia
Clark E. Roberton, of Virginia
Lori A. Roberts, of Virginia
Nicole R. Roberts, of Massachusetts
Kalif R. Robinson, of Georgia
Natalie R. Rooks, of Colorado
Nicholas L. Roscoe, of Virginia
William H. Z. Schlossberg, of Virginia
Patrick Shilladay Scott, of Virginia
Mehek Sethi, of Georgia
Patrick M. Sheehan, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Kristina Sherman, of Virginia
Madelyn D. Smith, of Washington
Axel Spaeh, of Virginia
Michael A. Stock, of Kansas
Camille Z. Swinson, of Massachusetts
Melinda Leanne Thompson, of Virginia
Hawi T. Tilahune, of Minnesota
Sulaiman H. Toghral, of West Virginia
Minh H. Tokuyama, of the District of Colum-
bia
Jesus Amador Torres, of Virginia
Ryan L. Trunk, of the District of Columbia
Valerie N. Tucker, of Florida
Kaitlyn R. Turner, of Virginia
Pablo Jairo Tutillo Maldonado, of Con-
necticut
Jessica Erin Tylecki, of Virginia
Juan-Paulo Varela, of California
Gilberto Manuel Velazquez-Aponte, of Vir-
ginia
Cale F. Wagner, of North Dakota
Jeffrey Lee Watts, of Texas
Michael J. Weber, of Minnesota
Steven Duane Weber, of Virginia
Kelsey L. Williams, of Florida
Chelsea A. Wilson, of Maryland
Henry B. Wilson, of Virginia
Jordan L. Wilson, of the District of Columbia
Alexandra Marie Zolnowski, of the District
of Columbia
Derek Jason Zoretic, of Virginia
Megan Elizabeth Zurowski, of Virginia
The following-named Members of the For-
eign Service of the Department of State to
be a Consular Officer and a Secretary in the
Diplomatic Service of the United States of
America:
Jenny U. Abamu, of Texas
Sean Gregory Allan, of Virginia
Maximilian E. Aviles, of California
Martha Jeannette Berry, of Texas
Rohini Bhaumik, of Virginia
Donald Judson Blakeslee, of Virginia
Rausan Borujerdi, of New York
Timothy A. Bowman, of Virginia
Logan Victor Brog, of the District of Colum-
bia
Cameron C. Brown, of Virginia
Jeffrey S. Bunting, of Virginia
Thomas Clifford Burgess, of Virginia
Diane Elizabeth Carroll, of Illinois
Patrick B. Cheetham, of Virginia
Joanna D. Chen, of New York
Lacy Hebert Cheung, of Virginia
Veronica P. Chiu, of Connecticut
Jennifer Elizabeth Cole, of the District of
Columbia
Amy E: Conroy, of Connecticut
Kaitlin Ann Crile, of Virginia
Corey James Crowley, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Andrew K. Danto, of Pennsylvania
Tanya N. Donangmaye, of New York
Kelly E. DuBois, of Alaska
Alyssa Hope Feldstein, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Faith E. Fugar, of Maryland
Adam John Gallagher, of California
Usra Ghazi, of the District of Columbia
Marichuy Gomez, of California
Alan Huston Gordon, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Joy P. Grainger, of South Carolina
Oleksandra V. Gubina, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Abdulrahman Mohammed Habeeb, of the Dis-
trict of Columbia
Frank Forester Leslie Harrington IV, of
West Virginia
Jerry Wayne Haynes II, of Virginia
Meredith Noelle Healy, of Colorado
Jeffrey N. Henry, of Virginia
Manuela Hernandez, of Florida
Simon Andrew Hessler, of Virginia
Sven Bertil Hestrand, of Virginia
Lisa B. Hoeksema, of the District of Colum-
bia
Richard S. Holliday, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Ankhet Holmes, of California
Wayne William Hosek, of Virginia
Kelly Elizabeth Johnson, of Virginia
Rachel E. King, of Ohio
Ethan N. Kinney, of Alabama
James Allen Koehler, of Virginia
Sarah Michelle Koelbl, of Virginia
Sierra N. Lekie, of Virginia
James Allan Lobb II, of Virginia
Lukas Loncko, of Virginia
Kevin Lynch, of Virginia
Kamila P. Manzueta, of Florida
Gregory James Marchwinski, of Virginia
Christopher Alan Marsh, of California
Joseph R. Martello, of Virginia
Donna Catherine Marzo, of Virginia
Patrick T. Maxwell, of Pennsylvania
Benjamin R. McIntosh, of California
Katharine Armstrong Jensen McIntosh, of
Virginia
Austin Blaine McKinney, of Michigan
Ryan James McNamara, of Virginia
Lauren A. Meinhart, of Virginia
Manuel Jose Menocal, of Virginia
Elizabeth M. Meravi, of Massachusetts
Caryl Anna Merten, of the District of Colum-
bia
Brittnie Anne Morrison, of Virginia
Fatima T. Morrisroe, of Virginia
Stephanie L. Muller, of Virginia
Radha Neelakantan, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Christina E. Paul, of Florida
James Campbell Pershing, of Massachusetts
Amanda Peskin, of Colorado
Lance Erich Peterson, of Virginia
Siobhan J. Pollock, of Virginia
Jamaica Afiya Pouncy, of Texas
David Allen Rackovan, Jr., of the District of
Columbia
Kathryn L. Rasmussen, of Wisconsin
Lilias Acacia Reeder, of the District of Co-
lumbia
Elisabeth Jane Reigel, of Virginia
Natalie Ruth Reynolds, of Virginia
Kelly James Rice, of South Carolina
Christopher Blake Rollins, of the District of
Columbia
Kevin James Rosati, of Virginia
Joseph C. Russell, of Virginia
Johanna P. Sanchez, of New York
Tawni L. Sasaki, of California
Yevgen Sautin, of Florida
Jennifer M. Schmidt, of Oregon
Brian E. Selman, of Texas
Zinna Senbetta, of Illinois
Claire Victoria Shelden, of Colorado
Jennifer J. Shin, of New York
Jennifer Lynn Shingler, of Virginia
Harold Frank Joseph Shirley, of Virginia
DeAndre D. Smith, of Maryland
Trevor J. Smith, of Florida
Caitlin A. Strawder, of Florida
Dominick E. Tao, of Florida
Mark S. Thompson, of Virginia
Claire Elizabeth Vallin, of Michigan
Sean David Varner, of Virginia
Lauren J. Vine, of California
Crystal N. Waitekus, of Virginia
Grayson M. Walker, of Virginia
Alexander F. Watson, of Florida
Kristin Weber, of Virginia
Sean Michael Weidner, of Maryland
Elissa Marie Weingart, of Virginia
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:44 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.058 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7229
December 19, 2019
Terry-Ann T. Wellington, of Texas
Uri Whang, of Virginia
Julie L. Wilkins, of Virginia
Leslie Elisabeth Wilson, of the District of
Columbia
Juwan A. Woods, of Louisiana
Andrew Henry Wright, of Virginia
Tiffany Jiun-Tyan Wu, of Virginia
Sarahann Y. Yeh, of Virginia
Hamda A. Yusuf, of Washington
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CONSTRUCTION CONSENSUS PRO-
CUREMENT IMPROVEMENT ACT
OF 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 203, S. 1434.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1434) to prohibit the use of re-
verse auctions for design and construction
services procurements, and for other pur-
poses.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Portman amendment
at the desk be considered and agreed
to; that the bill, as amended, be consid-
ered read a third time and passed; and
that the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 1269) was con-
sidered and agreed to as follows:
(Purpose: To modify the definition of reverse
auction to cover the awarding of contracts
and orders that are based solely on the
price obtained through the auction proc-
ess)
On page 3, line 12, strike ‘‘, in whole or in
part, based’’ and insert ‘‘is solely based’’.
The bill, as amended, was ordered to
be engrossed for a third reading, was
read the third time, and passed, as fol-
lows:
S. 1434
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Construc-
tion Consensus Procurement Improvement
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON USE OF A REVERSE
AUCTION FOR THE AWARD OF A
CONTRACT FOR DESIGN AND CON-
STRUCTION SERVICES.
(a) FINDING.—Congress finds that, in con-
trast to a traditional auction in which the
buyers bid up the price, sellers bid down the
price in a reverse auction.
(b) PROHIBITION.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be
amended to prohibit the use of reverse auc-
tions for awarding contracts for design and
construction services.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘design and construction
services’’ means—
(A) site planning and landscape design;
(B) architectural and engineering services
(as defined in section 1102 of title 40, United
States Code);
(C) interior design;
(D) performance of substantial construc-
tion work for facility, infrastructure, and en-
vironmental restoration projects;
(E) delivery and supply of construction ma-
terials to construction sites; or
(F) construction or substantial alteration
of public buildings or public works.
(2) The term ‘‘reverse auction’’ means,
with respect to any procurement by an exec-
utive agency—
(A) a real-time auction conducted through
an electronic medium among 2 or more
offerors who compete by submitting bids for
a supply or service contract, or a delivery
order, task order, or purchase order under
the contract, with the ability to submit re-
vised lower bids at any time before the clos-
ing of the auction; and
(B) the award of the contract, delivery
order, task order, or purchase order to the
offeror is solely based on the price obtained
through the auction process.
f
END PLUSH RETIREMENTS ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 274, S. 439.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 439) to allow Members of Con-
gress to opt out of the Federal Employees
Retirement System, and allow Members who
opt out of the Federal Employees Retire-
ment System to continue to participate in
the Thrift Savings Plan.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Homeland Security and Government
Affairs.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Cardin amendment at
the desk be considered and agreed to;
that the bill, as amended, be considered
read a third time and passed; and that
the motions to reconsider be consid-
ered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 1270) was agreed
to as follows:
(Purpose: To improve the bill)
On page 2, strike lines 1 through 3 and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Members of
Congress Pension Opt Out Clarification
Act’’.
The bill, as amended, was ordered to
be engrossed for a third reading, was
read the third time, and passed, as fol-
lows:
S. 439
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Members of
Congress Pension Opt Out Clarification
Act’’.
SEC. 2. MAKING FERS OPTIONAL FOR MEMBERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) AMENDMENT.—Section 8401(20) of title 5,
United States Code, is amended by striking
‘‘, and who (in the case’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘2004’’.
(2) APPLICABILITY.—The amendment made
by paragraph (1) shall apply with respect to
an individual who first serves as a Member of
the House of Representatives, including a
Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the
Congress, on or after the date of enactment
of this Act.
(b) CONTINUED PARTICIPATION IN TSP.—
(1) AMENDMENT.—Section 8401(20) of title 5,
United States Code, as amended by sub-
section (a), is further amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘term ‘Member’ has’’ and
inserting the following: ‘‘term ‘Member’—
‘‘(A) has’’;
(B) by inserting ‘‘, subject to subparagraph
(B),’’ after ‘‘except that’’;
(C) by adding ‘‘and’’ after the semicolon at
the end; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) for purposes of subchapter III, has the
same meaning as provided in section 2106,
without regard to whether the individual
elects not to participate in the Federal Em-
ployees’ Retirement System;’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO TSP.—Sec-
tion 8431(a) of title 5, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ‘‘except as provided in
section 8401(20)(B),’’ after ‘‘subchapter,’’.
(3) APPLICABILITY.—The amendments made
by this subsection shall apply with respect
to an individual who makes an election de-
scribed in section 8401(20) of title 5, United
States Code, not to participate in the Fed-
eral Employees’ Retirement System before,
on, or after the date of enactment of this
Act.
f
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS PROVIDER ACCOUNT-
ABILITY ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. 221 and the Senate proceed to its im-
mediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 221) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to require the Under Secretary
of Health to report major adverse personnel
actions involving certain health care em-
ployees to the National Practitioner Data
Bank and to applicable State licensing
boards, and for other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Gardner substitute
amendment at the desk be considered
and agreed to; that the bill, as amend-
ed, be considered read a third time and
passed; and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.060 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7230 December 19, 2019
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 1271), in the na-
ture of a substitute, was agreed to as
follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Veterans Affairs Provider Accountability
Act’’.
SEC. 2. ACCOUNTABILITY WITHIN VETERANS
HEALTH ADMINISTRATION.
(a) REPORTING MAJOR ADVERSE ACTIONS TO
NATIONAL PRACTITIONER DATA BANK AND
STATE LICENSING BOARDS.—Section 7461 of
title 38, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(f)(1) Whenever the Under Secretary for
Health (or an official designated by the
Under Secretary) brings charges based on
conduct or performance against a section
7401(1) employee and as a result of those
charges a covered major adverse action is
taken against the employee, the Under Sec-
retary shall, not later than 30 days after the
date on which such covered major adverse
action is carried out—
‘‘(A) transmit to the National Practitioner
Data Bank of the Department of Health and
Human Services and the applicable State li-
censing board the name of the employee, a
description of the covered major adverse ac-
tion, and a description of the reason for the
covered major adverse action; and
‘‘(B) update the VetPro System, or suc-
cessor system, with a record of the covered
major adverse action taken and an indica-
tion that information was transmitted under
subparagraph (A).
‘‘(2) The Under Secretary for Health—
‘‘(A) shall enroll all 7401(1) employees in a
continuous query of their record within the
National Practitioner Data Bank; and
‘‘(B) shall develop and implement a mecha-
nism for maintaining and updating the infor-
mation collected through such continuous
query within the VetPro System, or suc-
cessor system, to facilitate the sharing of
such information between Veterans Inte-
grated Service Networks.
‘‘(3) In this subsection, the term ‘covered
major adverse action’ means a major adverse
action with respect to a section 7401(1) em-
ployee that originated from circumstances
in which the behavior of the employee so
substantially failed to meet generally-ac-
cepted standards of clinical practice as to
raise reasonable concern for safety of pa-
tients.’’.
(b) PROHIBITION ON SIGNING SETTLEMENTS
WITH CERTAIN CLAUSES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs may not enter into a settlement agree-
ment relating to an adverse action against a
section 7401(1) employee under which the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs would be re-
quired to conceal a serious medical error or
a lapse in generally-accepted standards of
clinical practice.
(2) EXCEPTION.—Paragraph (1) shall not
apply to a negative record if the head of the
Office of Accountability and Whistleblower
Protection of the Department and the Spe-
cial Counsel (established by section 1211 of
title 5, United States Code) jointly certify
that the negative record is not legitimate.
(c) TRAINING ON CREDENTIALING AND PRIVI-
LEGING.—The Under Secretary for Health of
the Department of Veterans Affairs shall
provide to all staff of the Veterans Health
Administration who handle hiring, privi-
leging, and credentialing mandatory train-
ing on—
(1) all policies of the Veterans Health Ad-
ministration for credentialing and privi-
leging; and
(2) when and how to report adverse actions
to the National Practitioner Data Bank of
the Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, State licensing boards, and other rel-
evant entities.
(d) SENSE OF CONGRESS ON UPDATES TO THE
VHA HANDBOOK.—It is the sense of Congress
that—
(1) Congress recognizes that the confusion
regarding practices in the Veterans Health
Administration for reporting to State licens-
ing boards stems from a lack of guidance in
the Veterans Health Administration hand-
book 1100.18;
(2) Congress strongly recommends that the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs update such
handbook to ensure that employees of the
Veterans Health Administration, officials of
the Veterans Integrated Services Networks,
and officials of the Department of Veterans
Affairs understand and are able to utilize the
role of State licensing boards to effectively
prevent instances of failed reporting and fu-
ture patient safety concerns;
(3) Congress recognizes the broad authority
of the Veterans Health Administration to re-
port to State licensing boards those em-
ployed or separated health care professionals
whose behavior and clinical practice so sub-
stantially failed to meet generally-accepted
standards of clinical practice as to raise rea-
sonable concern for safety of patients and re-
quests that such handbook is updated to re-
flect appropriate reporting channels to en-
sure employee understanding of those proce-
dures and authorities; and
(4) in developing the new handbook, the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs should consult
with—
(A) State licensing boards;
(B) the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services;
(C) the National Practitioner Data Bank of
the Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices; and
(D) the exclusive representative of section
7401(1) employees.
(e) SECTION 7401(1) EMPLOYEE DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘section 7401(1) em-
ployee’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 7461(c)(1) of title 38, United States
Code.
The bill (S. 221), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed.
f
IMPROVING SAFETY AND SECU-
RITY FOR VETERANS ACT OF
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. 3147, introduced earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 3147) to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress re-
ports on patient safety and quality of care at
medical centers of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time and passed and that the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 3147) was ordered to be
engrossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed as follows:
S. 3147
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Improving
Safety and Security for Veterans Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS RE-
PORTS ON PATIENT SAFETY AND
QUALITY OF CARE.
(a) REPORT ON PATIENT SAFETY AND QUAL-
ITY OF CARE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of
the Senate and the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs of the House of Representatives a re-
port regarding the policies and procedures of
the Department relating to patient safety
and quality of care and the steps that the
Department has taken to make improve-
ments in patient safety and quality of care
at medical centers of the Department.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A description of the policies and proce-
dures of the Department and improvements
made by the Department with respect to the
following:
(i) How often the Department reviews or
inspects patient safety at medical centers of
the Department.
(ii) What triggers the aggregated review
process at medical centers of the Depart-
ment.
(iii) What controls the Department has in
place for controlled and other high-risk sub-
stances, including the following:
(I) Access to such substances by staff.
(II) What medications are dispensed via au-
tomation.
(III) What systems are in place to ensure
proper matching of the correct medication
to the correct patient.
(IV) Controls of items such as medication
carts and pill bottles and vials.
(V) Monitoring of the dispensing of medi-
cation within medical centers of the Depart-
ment, including monitoring of unauthorized
dispensing.
(iv) How the Department monitors contact
between patients and employees of the De-
partment, including how employees are mon-
itored and tracked at medical centers of the
Department when entering and exiting the
room of a patient.
(v) How comprehensively the Department
uses video monitoring systems in medical
centers of the Department to enhance pa-
tient safety, security, and quality of care.
(vi) How the Department tracks and re-
ports deaths at medical centers of the De-
partment at the local level, Veterans Inte-
grated Service Network level, and national
level.
(vii) The procedures of the Department to
alert local, regional, and Department-wide
leadership when there is a statistically ab-
normal number of deaths at a medical center
of the Department, including—
(I) the manner and frequency in which such
alerts are made; and
(II) what is included in such an alert, such
as the nature of death and where within the
medical center the death occurred.
(viii) The use of root cause analyses with
respect to patient deaths in medical centers
of the Department, including—
(I) what threshold triggers a root cause
analysis for a patient death;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.078 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7231
December 19, 2019
(II) who conducts the root cause analysis;
and
(III) how root cause analyses determine
whether a patient death is suspicious or not.
(ix) What triggers a patient safety alert,
including how many suspicious deaths cause
a patient safety alert to be triggered.
(x) The situations in which an autopsy re-
port is ordered for deaths at hospitals of the
Department, including an identification of—
(I) when the medical examiner is called to
review a patient death; and
(II) the official or officials that decide such
a review is necessary.
(xi) The method for family members of a
patient who died at a medical center of the
Department to request an investigation into
that death.
(xii) The opportunities that exist for fam-
ily members of a patient who died at a med-
ical center of the Department to request an
autopsy for that death.
(xiii) The methods in place for employees
of the Department to report suspicious
deaths at medical centers of the Department.
(xiv) The steps taken by the Department if
an employee of the Department is suspected
to be implicated in a suspicious death at a
medical center of the Department, includ-
ing—
(I) actions to remove or suspend that indi-
vidual from patient care or temporarily reas-
sign that individual and the speed at which
that action occurs; and
(II) steps taken to ensure that other med-
ical centers of the Department and other
non-Department medical centers are aware
of the suspected role of the individual in a
suspicious death.
(xv) In the case of the suspicious death of
an individual while under care at a medical
center of the Department, the methods used
by the Department to inform the family
members of that individual.
(xvi) The policy of the Department for
communicating to the public when a sus-
picious death occurs at a medical center of
the Department.
(B) A description of any additional au-
thorities or resources needed from Congress
to implement any of the actions, changes to
policy, or other matters included in the re-
port required under paragraph (1)
(b) REPORT ON DEATHS AT LOUIS A. JOHNSON
MEDICAL CENTER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date on which the Attorney Gen-
eral indicates that any investigation or trial
related to the suspicious deaths of veterans
at the Louis A. Johnson VA Medical Center
in Clarksburg, West Virginia, (in this sub-
section referred to as the ‘‘Facility’’) that
occurred during 2017 and 2018 has sufficiently
concluded, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
shall submit to the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives a report describing—
(A) the events that occurred during that
period related to those suspicious deaths;
and
(B) actions taken at the Facility and
throughout the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs to prevent any similar reoccurrence of
the issues that contributed to those sus-
picious deaths.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A timeline of events that occurred at
the Facility relating to the suspicious deaths
described in paragraph (1) beginning the mo-
ment those deaths were first determined to
be suspicious, including any notifications
to—
(i) leadership of the Facility;
(ii) leadership of the Veterans Integrated
Service Network in which the Facility is lo-
cated;
(iii) leadership at the central office of the
Department; and
(iv) the Office of the Inspector General of
the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(B) A description of the actions taken by
leadership of the Facility, the Veterans Inte-
grated Service Network in which the Facil-
ity is located, and the central office of the
Department in response to the suspicious
deaths, including responses to notifications
under subparagraph (A).
(C) A description of the actions, including
root cause analyses, autopsies, or other ac-
tivities that were conducted after each of the
suspicious deaths.
(D) A description of the changes made by
the Department since the suspicious deaths
to procedures to control access within med-
ical centers of the Department to controlled
and non-controlled substances to prevent
harm to patients.
(E) A description of the changes made by
the Department to its nationwide controlled
substance and non-controlled substance poli-
cies as a result of the suspicious deaths.
(F) A description of the changes planned or
made by the Department to its video surveil-
lance at medical centers of the Department
to improve patient safety and quality of care
in response to the suspicious deaths.
(G) An analysis of the review of sentinel
events conducted at the Facility in response
to the suspicious deaths and whether that re-
view was conducted consistent with policies
and procedures of the Department.
(H) A description of the steps the Depart-
ment has taken or will take to improve the
monitoring of the credentials of employees
of the Department to ensure the validity of
those credentials, including all employees
that interact with patients in the provision
of medical care.
(I) A description of the steps the Depart-
ment has taken or will take to monitor and
mitigate the behavior of employee bad ac-
tors, including those who attempt to conceal
their mistreatment of veteran patients.
(J) A description of the steps the Depart-
ment has taken or will take to enhance or
create new monitoring systems that—
(i) automatically collect and analyze data
from medical centers of the Department and
monitor for warnings signs or unusual health
patterns that may indicate a health safety
or quality problem at a particular medical
center; and
(ii) automatically share those warnings
with other medical centers of the Depart-
ment, relevant Veterans Integrated Service
Networks, and officials of the central office
of the Department.
(K) A description of the accountability ac-
tions that have been taken at the Facility to
remove or discipline employees who signifi-
cantly participated in the actions that con-
tributed to the suspicious deaths.
(L) A description of the system-wide re-
porting process that the Department will or
has implemented to ensure that relevant em-
ployees are properly reported, when applica-
ble, to the National Practitioner Data Bank
of the Department of Health and Human
Services, the applicable State licensing
boards, the Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion, and other relevant entities.
(M) A description of any additional au-
thorities or resources needed from Congress
to implement any of the recommendations
or findings included in the report required
under paragraph (1).
(N) Such other matters as the Secretary
considers necessary.
PERMITTING THE SECRETARY OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS TO ESTAB-
LISH A GRANT PROGRAM
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs be dis-
charged from further consideration of
H.R. 2385 and the Senate proceed to its
immediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 2385) to permit the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to establish a grant pro-
gram to conduct cemetery research and
produce educational materials for the Vet-
erans Legacy Program.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I further ask
unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to a third read-
ing and was read the third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing no further debate, the bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill pass?
The bill (H.R. 2385) was passed.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
AUTHORIZING STATES AND TRIB-
AL ORGANIZATIONS THAT RE-
CEIVE GRANTS FROM THE NA-
TIONAL CEMETERY ADMINISTRA-
TION FOR ESTABLISHMENT, EX-
PANSION, OR IMPROVEMENT OF
A VETERANS’ CEMETERIES TO
USE AMOUNTS OF SUCH GRANTS
FOR STATE AND TRIBAL ORGA-
NIZATION CEMETERY PER-
SONNEL TO TRAIN AT THE
TRAINING CENTER OF THE NA-
TIONAL CEMETERY ADMINISTRA-
TION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. 2096 and the Senate proceed to its
immediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 2096) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize States and tribal
organizations that receive grants from the
National Cemetery Administration for estab-
lishment, expansion, or improvement of a
veterans’ cemeteries to use amounts of such
grants for State and tribal organization cem-
etery personnel to train at the training cen-
ter of the National Cemetery Administra-
tion, and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.044 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7232 December 19, 2019
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Booz-
man substitute amendment at the desk
be considered and agreed to and the
bill, as amended, be considered read a
third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 1272), in the na-
ture of a substitute, was agreed to as
follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. TRAINING OF STATE VETERANS CEM-
ETERY PERSONNEL BY NATIONAL
CEMETERY ADMINISTRATION.
Section 2408 of title 38, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘and (ii) the cost’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(ii) the cost’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘; and (iii) training costs,
including travel expenses, associated with
attendance at training provided by the Na-
tional Cemetery Administration’’ before the
semicolon; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘and (ii) the cost’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(ii) the cost’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘; and (iii) training costs,
including travel expenses, associated with
attendance at training provided by the Na-
tional Cemetery Administration’’ before the
period;
(2) by redesignating subsections (c)
through (f) as subsections (d) through (g), re-
spectively; and
(3) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing new subsection (c):
‘‘(c) A grant under this section for a pur-
pose described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of
subsection (a)(1) may be used, solely or in
part, for training costs, including travel ex-
penses, associated with attendance at train-
ing provided by the National Cemetery Ad-
ministration.’’.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the bill having
been read the third time, the question
is, Shall the bill pass?
The bill (S. 2096), as amended, was
passed, as follows:
S. 2096
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. TRAINING OF STATE VETERANS CEM-
ETERY PERSONNEL BY NATIONAL
CEMETERY ADMINISTRATION.
Section 2408 of title 38, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘and (ii) the cost’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(ii) the cost’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘; and (iii) training costs,
including travel expenses, associated with
attendance at training provided by the Na-
tional Cemetery Administration’’ before the
semicolon; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) by striking ‘‘and (ii) the cost’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(ii) the cost’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘; and (iii) training costs,
including travel expenses, associated with
attendance at training provided by the Na-
tional Cemetery Administration’’ before the
period;
(2) by redesignating subsections (c)
through (f) as subsections (d) through (g), re-
spectively; and
(3) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing new subsection (c):
‘‘(c) A grant under this section for a pur-
pose described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of
subsection (a)(1) may be used, solely or in
part, for training costs, including travel ex-
penses, associated with attendance at train-
ing provided by the National Cemetery Ad-
ministration.’’.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MERCHANT MARINERS OF WORLD
WAR II CONGRESSIONAL GOLD
MEDAL ACT OF 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 550 and the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 550) to award a Congressional
Gold Medal, collectively, to the United
States Merchant Mariners of World War II,
in recognition of their dedicated and vital
service during World War II.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Mur-
kowski substitute amendment at the
desk be considered and agreed to; that
the bill, as amended, be considered
read a third time and passed; and that
the motions to reconsider be consid-
ered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 1273), in the na-
ture of a substitute, was agreed to as
follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Merchant
Mariners of World War II Congressional Gold
Medal Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) 2019 marked the 74th anniversary of Al-
lied victory in World War II.
(2) The United States Merchant Marine (in
this section referred to as the ‘‘Merchant
Marine’’) was integral in providing the link
between domestic production and the fight-
ing forces overseas, providing combat equip-
ment, fuel, food, commodities, and raw ma-
terials to troops stationed abroad.
(3) Fleet Admiral Ernest J. King acknowl-
edged the indispensability of the Merchant
Marine to the victory in a 1945 letter stating
that, without the support of the Merchant
Marine, ‘‘the Navy could not have accom-
plished its mission’’.
(4) President, and former Supreme Com-
mander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces,
Dwight D. Eisenhower acknowledged that
‘‘through the prompt delivery of supplies and
equipment to our armed forces overseas, and
of cargoes representing economic and mili-
tary aid to friendly nations, the American
Merchant Marine has effectively helped to
strengthen the forces of freedom throughout
the world’’.
(5) Military missions and war planning
were contingent upon the availability of re-
sources and the Merchant Marine played a
vital role in this regard, ensuring the effi-
cient and reliable transoceanic transport of
military equipment and both military and
civilian personnel.
(6) The Merchant Marine provided for the
successful transport of resources and per-
sonnel despite consistent and ongoing expo-
sure to enemy combatants from both the air
and the sea, including from enemy bomber
squadrons, submarines, and naval mines.
(7) The efforts of the Merchant Marine
were not without sacrifices as the Merchant
Marine likely bore a higher per-capita cas-
ualty rate than any of the military branches
during the war.
(8) The Merchant Marine proved to be an
instrumental asset on an untold number of
occasions, participating in every landing op-
eration by the United States Marine Corps,
from Guadalcanal to Okinawa.
(9) The Merchant Marine provided the bulk
tonnage of material necessary for the inva-
sion of Normandy, an invasion which, ac-
cording to a 1944 New York Times article,
‘‘would not have been possible without the
Merchant Marine’’.
(10) In assessing the performance of the
Merchant Marine, General Eisenhower stat-
ed, ‘‘every man in this Allied command is
quick to express his admiration for the loy-
alty, courage, and fortitude of the officers
and men of the Merchant Marine. We count
upon their efficiency and their utter devo-
tion to duty as we do our own; they have
never failed us’’.
(11) During a September 1944 speech, Presi-
dent Franklin D. Roosevelt stated that the
Merchant Marine had ‘‘delivered the goods
when and where needed in every theater of
operations and across every ocean in the big-
gest, the most difficult, and dangerous trans-
portation job ever undertaken. As time goes
on, there will be greater public under-
standing of our merchant fleet’s record dur-
ing this war’’.
(12) The feats and accomplishments of the
Merchant Marine are deserving of broader
public recognition.
(13) The United States will be forever
grateful and indebted to these merchant
mariners for their effective, reliable, and
courageous transport of goods and resources
in enemy territory throughout theaters of
every variety in World War II.
(14) The goods and resources transported
by the Merchant Marine saved thousands of
lives and enabled the Allied Powers to claim
victory in World War II.
(15) The Congressional Gold Medal would
be an appropriate way to shed further light
on the service of the merchant mariners in
World War II and the instrumental role they
played in winning that war.
(16) Many students of the Merchant Marine
Academy lost their lives as they sailed
through enemy-controlled waters or un-
loaded cargo in overseas combat areas, and,
as a result, the United States Merchant Ma-
rine Academy is the only institution among
the 5 Federal academies to be authorized to
carry a battle standard as part of its color
guard.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.081 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7233
December 19, 2019
SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.
(a) AWARD AUTHORIZED.—The Speaker of
the House of Representatives and the Presi-
dent pro tempore of the Senate shall make
appropriate arrangements for the award, on
behalf of Congress, of a single gold medal of
appropriate design to the United States mer-
chant mariners of World War II, in recogni-
tion of their dedicated and vital service dur-
ing World War II.
(b) DESIGN AND STRIKING.—For the pur-
poses of the award described in subsection
(a), the Secretary of the Treasury (in this
Act referred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall
strike the gold medal with suitable emblems,
devices, and inscriptions, to be determined
by the Secretary.
(c) AMERICAN MERCHANT MARINE MU-
SEUM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Following the award of
the gold medal under subsection (a), the gold
medal shall be given to the American Mer-
chant Marine Museum, where it will be
available for display as appropriate and
available for research.
(2) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the American Merchant Ma-
rine Museum should make the gold medal
given to the Museum under paragraph (1)
available for display elsewhere, particularly
at appropriate locations associated with the
United States Merchant Marine and that
preference should be given to locations affili-
ated with the United States Merchant Ma-
rine.
SEC. 4. DUPLICATE MEDALS.
Under such regulations as the Secretary
may prescribe, the Secretary may strike and
sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal
struck under section 3, at a price sufficient
to cover the costs of the medals, including
labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and
overhead expenses.
SEC. 5. STATUS OF MEDALS.
(a) NATIONAL MEDALS.—Medals struck
under this Act are national medals for pur-
poses of chapter 51 of title 31, United States
Code.
(b) NUMISMATIC ITEMS.—For purposes of
section 5134 of title 31, United States Code,
all medals struck under this Act shall be
considered to be numismatic items.
The amendment was ordered to be
engrossed and the bill to be read a
third time.
The bill was read the third time.
The bill (H.R. 550), as amended, was
passed.
f
DOGS AS WITNESS GUARDIANS
ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of S. 1029
and the Senate proceed to its imme-
diate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1029) to allow the use of certified
facility dogs in criminal proceedings in Fed-
eral courts, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Cor-
nyn amendment at the desk be agreed
to; that the bill, as amended, be consid-
ered read a third time and passed; and
that the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 1274), in the na-
ture of a substitute, was agreed to as
follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Courthouse
Dogs Act’’.
SEC. 2. USE OF CERTIFIED FACILITY DOG FOR
TESTIMONY IN CRIMINAL PRO-
CEEDINGS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 223 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 3502 the following:
‘‘§ 3503. Use of certified facility dog for testi-
mony in criminal proceedings
‘‘(a) DEFINED TERM.—In this section, the
term ‘certified facility dog’ means a dog that
has graduated from an assistance dog organi-
zation that is a member of an internation-
ally recognized assistance dog association
that has a primary purpose of granting ac-
creditation based on standards of excellence
in areas of—
‘‘(1) assistance dog acquisition;
‘‘(2) dog training;
‘‘(3) dog handler training; and
‘‘(4) dog placement.
‘‘(b) REQUESTS FOR USE OF CERTIFIED FA-
CILITY DOGS.—Either party in a criminal pro-
ceeding in a Federal court may apply for an
order from the court to allow a certified fa-
cility dog, if available, to be present with a
witness testifying before the court through—
‘‘(1) in-person testimony; or
‘‘(2) testimony televised by 2-way, closed-
circuit television.
‘‘(c) CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL.—A Federal
court may enter an order authorizing an
available certified facility dog to accompany
a witness while testifying at a hearing in ac-
cordance with subsection (b) if the court
finds that—
‘‘(1) the dog to be used qualifies as a cer-
tified facility dog;
‘‘(2) the use of a certified facility dog will
aid the witness in providing testimony; and
‘‘(3) upon a showing by the party seeking
an order under subsection (b), the certified
facility dog is insured for liability protec-
tion.
‘‘(d) HANDLERS.—Each certified facility dog
authorized to accompany a witness under
subsection (c) shall be accompanied by a
handler who is—
‘‘(1) trained to manage the certified facil-
ity dog by an assistance dog organization de-
scribed in subsection (a); and
‘‘(2) a professional working in the legal
system with knowledge about the legal and
criminal justice processes.
‘‘(e) DEADLINE.—The party seeking an
order under subsection (b) shall apply for
such order not later than 14 days before the
preliminary hearing, trial date, or other
hearing to which the order is to apply.
‘‘(f) OTHER ORDERS.—A Federal court may
make such orders as may be necessary to
preserve the fairness of the proceeding, in-
cluding imposing restrictions on, and in-
structing the jury regarding, the presence of
the certified facility dog during the pro-
ceedings.
‘‘(g) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in this
section may be construed to prevent a Fed-
eral court from providing any other accom-
modations to a witness in accordance with
applicable law.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The chapter
analysis for chapter 223 of title 18, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 3502 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘3503. Use of certified facility dog for testi-
mony in criminal pro-
ceedings.’’.
The bill (S. 1029), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed, as follows:
S. 1029
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Courthouse
Dogs Act’’.
SEC. 2. USE OF CERTIFIED FACILITY DOG FOR
TESTIMONY IN CRIMINAL PRO-
CEEDINGS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 223 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 3502 the following:
‘‘§ 3503. Use of certified facility dog for testi-
mony in criminal proceedings
‘‘(a) DEFINED TERM.—In this section, the
term ‘certified facility dog’ means a dog that
has graduated from an assistance dog organi-
zation that is a member of an internation-
ally recognized assistance dog association
that has a primary purpose of granting ac-
creditation based on standards of excellence
in areas of—
‘‘(1) assistance dog acquisition;
‘‘(2) dog training;
‘‘(3) dog handler training; and
‘‘(4) dog placement.
‘‘(b) REQUESTS FOR USE OF CERTIFIED FA-
CILITY DOGS.—Either party in a criminal pro-
ceeding in a Federal court may apply for an
order from the court to allow a certified fa-
cility dog, if available, to be present with a
witness testifying before the court through—
‘‘(1) in-person testimony; or
‘‘(2) testimony televised by 2-way, closed-
circuit television.
‘‘(c) CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL.—A Federal
court may enter an order authorizing an
available certified facility dog to accompany
a witness while testifying at a hearing in ac-
cordance with subsection (b) if the court
finds that—
‘‘(1) the dog to be used qualifies as a cer-
tified facility dog;
‘‘(2) the use of a certified facility dog will
aid the witness in providing testimony; and
‘‘(3) upon a showing by the party seeking
an order under subsection (b), the certified
facility dog is insured for liability protec-
tion.
‘‘(d) HANDLERS.—Each certified facility dog
authorized to accompany a witness under
subsection (c) shall be accompanied by a
handler who is—
‘‘(1) trained to manage the certified facil-
ity dog by an assistance dog organization de-
scribed in subsection (a); and
‘‘(2) a professional working in the legal
system with knowledge about the legal and
criminal justice processes.
‘‘(e) DEADLINE.—The party seeking an
order under subsection (b) shall apply for
such order not later than 14 days before the
preliminary hearing, trial date, or other
hearing to which the order is to apply.
‘‘(f) OTHER ORDERS.—A Federal court may
make such orders as may be necessary to
preserve the fairness of the proceeding, in-
cluding imposing restrictions on, and in-
structing the jury regarding, the presence of
the certified facility dog during the pro-
ceedings.
‘‘(g) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in this
section may be construed to prevent a Fed-
eral court from providing any other accom-
modations to a witness in accordance with
applicable law.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The chapter
analysis for chapter 223 of title 18, United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.031 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7234 December 19, 2019
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 3502 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘3503. Use of certified facility dog for testi-
mony in criminal pro-
ceedings.’’.
f
RESOLUTIONS SUBMITTED TODAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of the
following resolutions introduced ear-
lier today en bloc: S. Res. 459, S. Res.
460, and S. Res. 461.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolutions
en bloc.
AMERICAN GEOPHYSICAL UNION CENTENNIAL
ANNIVERSARY
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, in rec-
ognition of its centennial anniversary,
I rise to offer my congratulations and
appreciation to the American Geo-
physical Union, also known as the
AGU. Since December 1919, the AGU
has played an instrumental role in sup-
porting international cooperation
while also fostering American leader-
ship in the fields of Earth and space
science. Senator MURKOWSKI and I in-
troduced a resolution in honor of this
critical milestone, and I am pleased to
see the Senate pass it today.
The National Research Council cre-
ated the AGU as the representative for
the United States of America in the
International Union of Geodesy and
Geophysics in 1919. Only 1 year after
the end of World War I, this was an oc-
casion for international cooperation
that illustrated the importance of
bridging divides in the name of science.
The AGU is a prime example of our Na-
tion’s commitment to a vision of
shared peace and prosperity, and by
serving as a key forum for gifted geo-
physicists from across the world, it is
an example of our positive role in the
international community for advanc-
ing knowledge.
In the century since its founding, the
AGU has connected countless geo-
physicists to facilitate information-
sharing, peer review. and innovation.
The AGU today counts more than 60,000
scientists and students among its
membership, across 137 countries.
Their work has not only expanded our
understanding of our home planet and
the celestial bodies beyond, but it has
also led to critical health, environ-
mental, commercial, and technological
breakthroughs. If we are to confront
climate change and other systemic
challenges and, indeed, if we are truly
to live as stewards in harmony with
our surroundings, humanity needs the
international cooperation and sci-
entific integrity the AGU demonstrates
so aptly.
It is my hope that this resolution and
the occasion of the AGU’s centennial
anniversary can inspire us all to appre-
ciate the significance of scientific in-
tegrity and independence. Research
from the geophysical community has
deeply informed our society on the
need for responding to pressing chal-
lenges, chief among them climate
change. But unfortunately, it is not al-
ways so easy. Under President Trump,
scientists have had to censor their
work, voluntarily or involuntarily, due
to political interference.
Under the Trump administration, for
instance, the United States Geological
Survey has opted to limit the scope of
the projected consequences of climate
change through 2040, despite the agen-
cy’s historic use of models stretching
through 2100. Perhaps more worrisome,
the White House released an Executive
Order on June 14, 2019, that instructs
each agency to slash at least one-third
of its advisory committees, which con-
sist of experts and scientists ready to
advise on a wide range of issues, espe-
cially for the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency.
Through reason and empiricism,
science brings us closer to the truth.
When administration officials or other
individuals purposefully interfere with
science to paint an incomplete, inac-
curate, or misleading image, science
ceases to be science and becomes just
another battleground for politics. Pol-
icymakers should not be in the busi-
ness of manipulating or silencing the
work of the men and women who make
up the scientific community. We
should let scientists do their jobs. The
AGU has done an excellent job rep-
resenting many of those scientists over
the last 100 years, and I congratulate it
on the occasion of its centennial.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolutions be agreed
to, the preambles be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table, all en
bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 459) was
agreed to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
The resolutions (S. Res. 460 and S.
Res. 461) were agreed to.
The preambles were agreed to.
(The resolutions, with their pre-
ambles, are printed in today’s RECORD
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
COMBATING GLOBAL CORRUPTION
ACT OF 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 144, S. 1309.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1309) to identify and combat cor-
ruption in countries, to establish a tiered
system of countries with respect to levels of
corruption by their governments and their
efforts to combat such corruption, and to as-
sess United States assistance to designated
countries in order to advance anti-corrup-
tion efforts in those countries and better
serve United States taxpayers.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Foreign Relations, with an amend-
ment to strike all after the enacting
clause and insert in lieu thereof the
following:
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) CORRUPT ACTOR.—The term ‘‘corrupt
actor’’ means—
(A) any foreign person or entity that is a gov-
ernment official or government entity respon-
sible for, or complicit in, an act of public cor-
ruption; and
(B) any company, in which a person or entity
described in subparagraph (A) has a significant
stake, which is responsible for, or complicit in,
an act of public corruption.
(2) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE.—The term ‘‘foreign
assistance’’ means assistance made available
under—
(A) the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
U.S.C. 2151 et seq.); or
(B) the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C.
2751 et seq.).
(3) GRAND CORRUPTION.—The term ‘‘grand
corruption’’ means public corruption committed
at a high level of government that—
(A) distorts policies or the central functioning
of the country; and
(B) enables leaders to benefit at the expense of
the public good.
(4) PETTY CORRUPTION.—The term ‘‘petty cor-
ruption’’ means the unlawful exercise of en-
trusted public power for private gain by low- or
mid-level public officials in their interactions
with ordinary citizens, including by bribery,
nepotism, fraud, or embezzlement.
(5) PUBLIC CORRUPTION.—The term ‘‘public
corruption’’ means the unlawful exercise of en-
trusted public power for private gain, including
by bribery, nepotism, fraud, or embezzlement.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) it is in the foreign policy interest of the
United States to help other countries promote
good governance and combat public corruption,
particularly grand corruption;
(2) multiple departments and agencies across
the United States Government operate programs
that promote good governance in foreign coun-
tries and enhance foreign countries’ ability to
combat public corruption;
(3) the Department of State should promote
coordination among programs described in para-
graph (2) to improve their effectiveness and effi-
ciency; and
(4) the Department of State should identify
areas in which United States efforts to help
other countries promote good governance and
combat public corruption could be enhanced.
SEC. 3. ANNUAL REPORT.
The Secretary shall annually submit to the
appropriate congressional committees and pub-
lish, on a publicly accessible website, a report
that—
(1) groups foreign countries, by quintile, based
on—
(A) the World Bank Worldwide Governance
Indicator on Control of Corruption; and
(B) the World Bank Worldwide Governance
Indicator on Voice and Accountability;
(2) adds context and commentary, as appro-
priate, to the World Bank Worldwide Govern-
ance Indicator on Control of Corruption and the
World Bank Worldwide Governance Indicator
on Voice and Accountability groupings under
paragraph (1), as appropriate, based on the fac-
tors outlined in section 4;
(3) describes, based on the World Bank World-
wide Governance Indicators and the factors out-
lined in section 4, the status of foreign govern-
ments’ efforts to combat public corruption; and
(4) describes the status of each foreign coun-
try’s active membership in voluntary multi-sec-
toral global governance initiatives as evidence of
the country’s government-led efforts to combat
public corruption.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.043 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7235
December 19, 2019
SEC. 4. ADDITIONAL FACTORS FOR ASSESSING
GOVERNMENT EFFORTS TO COMBAT
PUBLIC CORRUPTION.
(a) FACTORS FOR ASSESSING GOVERNMENT EF-
FORTS TO COMBAT PUBLIC CORRUPTION.—In as-
sessing a government’s efforts to combat public
corruption, the Secretary of State should con-
sider, to the extent reliable information is avail-
able—
(1) whether the country—
(A) has enacted laws and established govern-
ment structures, policies, and practices that pro-
hibit public corruption, including grand corrup-
tion and petty corruption; and
(B) enforces such laws through a fair judicial
process;
(2) whether the country prescribes appropriate
punishment for grand corruption that is com-
mensurate with the punishment prescribed for
serious crimes;
(3) whether the country prescribes appropriate
punishment for petty corruption that provides a
sufficiently stringent deterrent and adequately
reflects the nature of the offense;
(4) the extent to which the government of the
country—
(A) vigorously investigates and prosecutes
acts of public corruption; and
(B) convicts and sentences persons responsible
for such acts that take place wholly or partly
within such country, including, as appropriate,
requiring the incarceration of individuals con-
victed of such acts;
(5) the extent to which the government of the
country vigorously investigates, prosecutes, con-
victs, and sentences public officials who partici-
pate in or facilitate public corruption, including
nationals of the country who are deployed in
foreign military assignments, trade delegations
abroad, or other similar missions who engage in
or facilitate severe forms of public corruption;
(6) the extent to which the government of the
country has adopted measures to prevent public
corruption, such as measures to inform and edu-
cate the public, including potential victims,
about the causes and consequences of public
corruption;
(7) steps taken by the government of the coun-
try to prohibit government officials from partici-
pating in, facilitating, or condoning public cor-
ruption, including the investigation, prosecu-
tion, and conviction of such officials;
(8) the extent to which the country govern-
ment provides access, or, as appropriate, makes
adequate resources available, to civil society or-
ganizations and other institutions to combat
public corruption, including reporting, inves-
tigating, and monitoring;
(9) the extent to which an independent judici-
ary or judicial body in the country is respon-
sible for, and effectively capable of, deciding
public corruption cases impartially, on the basis
of facts and in accordance with the law, with-
out any improper restrictions, influences, in-
ducements, pressures, threats, or interferences
(direct or indirect) from any source or for any
reason;
(10) the extent to which the government of the
country is assisting in international investiga-
tions of transnational public corruption net-
works and in other cooperative efforts to combat
grand corruption, including cooperating with
the governments of other countries to extradite
corrupt actors;
(11) the extent to which the government of the
country recognizes the rights of victims of public
corruption, ensures their access to justice, and
takes steps to prevent victims from being further
victimized or persecuted by corrupt actors, gov-
ernment officials, or others;
(12) the extent to which the government of the
country refrains from prosecuting legitimate vic-
tims of public corruption or whistleblowers due
to such persons having assisted in exposing pub-
lic corruption, and refrains from other discrimi-
natory treatment of such persons; and
(13) such other information relating to public
corruption as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.
SEC. 5. DESIGNATION OF EMBASSY ANTI-CORRUP-
TION POINTS OF CONTACT.
(a) DESIGNATED COUNTRIES.—The Secretary of
State shall annually designate an anti-corrup-
tion point of contact at the United States Mis-
sion to each country that he or she determines
is in need of such a point of contact.
(b) POINTS OF CONTACT DUTIES.—Each des-
ignated anti-corruption point of contact shall be
responsible for coordinating a whole-of-govern-
ment approach to combating public corruption
in his or her posted country among relevant
United States Government departments or agen-
cies with a presence in that country, including,
as applicable, the Department of State, the De-
partment of Justice, the Department of the
Treasury, the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, and the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development.
(c) TRAINING.—The Secretary of State shall
develop and implement appropriate training for
designated anti-corruption points of contact.
(d) INTERNAL REPORTING.—Each anti-corrup-
tion point of contact shall submit an annual re-
port to the Secretary regarding anti-corruption
activities within his or her posted country
that—
(1) evaluates the effectiveness of current pro-
grams that promote good governance and have
an effect of combating public corruption; and
(2) identifies areas in which the United States
Government’s approach could be enhanced, in-
cluding specific programs that could be used to
enhance the whole-of-government approach.
SEC. 6. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State shall
have primary responsibility for managing a
whole-of-government effort to improve coordina-
tion among United States Government depart-
ments and agencies that have a role in pro-
moting good governance in foreign countries
and enhancing foreign countries’ ability to com-
bat public corruption.
(b) TASK FORCE.—
(1) INITIAL MEETING.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State shall establish and convene
an initial meeting of an interagency task force,
which shall be composed of—
(A) representatives appointed by the President
from the departments and agency listed in sec-
tion 5(b); and
(B) representatives from any other United
States Government departments or agencies, as
determined by the Secretary.
(2) ADDITIONAL MEETINGS.—The task force de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall meet not less fre-
quently than twice per year.
(c) TASK FORCE DUTIES.—The task force es-
tablished pursuant to subsection (b) shall—
(1) assist the Secretary of State in managing
the whole-of-government effort described in sub-
section (a);
(2) evaluate, on a general basis, the effective-
ness of current programs that have an effect of
combating public corruption;
(3) identify general areas in which the United
States Government’s approach could be en-
hanced; and
(4) identify specific programs for specific
countries that could be used to enhance the
whole-of-government approach.
SEC. 7. TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days after
publishing the report required under section 3,
and prior to obligation by any United States
agency of foreign assistance to the government
of a country ranked in the lowest 2 quintiles in
the World Bank Worldwide Governance Indi-
cator on Control of Corruption grouping de-
scribed in section 3(1), the Secretary, in coordi-
nation with the Administrator of USAID, as ap-
propriate, shall—
(1) conduct a corruption risk assessment and
create a corruption mitigation strategy for all
United States foreign assistance programs in
that country;
(2) require the inclusion of anti-corruption
clauses for all foreign assistance contracts,
grants, and cooperative agreements, which
allow for the termination of the contract, grant,
or cooperative agreement without penalty if
credible indicators of public corruption are dis-
covered;
(3) require the inclusion of appropriate
clawback clauses for all foreign assistance that
has been misappropriated through corruption;
(4) require the appropriate disclosure to the
United States Government, in confidential form,
if necessary, of the beneficial ownership of con-
tractors, subcontractors, grantees, cooperative
agreement participants, and other organizations
receiving funding from the United States Gov-
ernment for foreign assistance programs; and
(5) establish a mechanism for investigating al-
legations of misappropriated foreign assistance
funds or equipment.
(b) EXCEPTIONS AND WAIVER.—
(1) EXCEPTIONS.—Subsection (a) shall not
apply to humanitarian assistance, disaster as-
sistance, or assistance to combat corruption.
(2) WAIVER.—The Secretary of State may
waive the requirement to delay foreign assist-
ance under subsection (a) if the Secretary cer-
tifies to the appropriate congressional commit-
tees that such waiver is important to the na-
tional security interests of the United States.
SEC. 8. RESOURCES AND REPORTING REQUIRE-
MENTS.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and annu-
ally thereafter, the Secretary of State shall sub-
mit a report to the appropriate congressional
committees that outlines the resources needed to
meet the objectives of this Act, including—
(A) personnel needs; and
(B) a description of the bureaucratic structure
of the offices within the Department of State
and USAID that are engaged in anti-corruption
activities.
(b) ANNUAL BRIEFING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and annu-
ally thereafter, the Secretary shall brief the ap-
propriate congressional committees on the imple-
mentation of this Act, including—
(A) the designation of anti-corruption points
of contact for countries under section 5(a);
(B) the training implemented under section
5(c);
(C) the reports received from anti-corruption
points of contact under section 5(d);
(D) the management of the whole-of-govern-
ment effort to improve coordination under sec-
tion 6(a);
(E) the establishment of the task force under
section 6(b); and
(F) the activities of the task force under sec-
tion 6(c).
(2) FORM OF BRIEFING.—The briefings under
subsection (b) shall be conducted on an in-per-
son basis to members or staff of the appropriate
congressional committees. Portions of the brief-
ings may be conducted in a classified setting, as
needed.
(c) ONLINE PLATFORM.—The Secretary of
State and the USAID Administrator shall con-
solidate existing reports with anti-corruption
components into one online, public platform,
which shall—
(1) include—
(A) the Human Rights Report;
(B) the Fiscal Transparency Report;
(C) the Investment Climate Statement reports;
(D) the International Narcotics Control Strat-
egy Report; and
(E) any other relevant public reports;
(2) link to third-party indicators and compli-
ance mechanisms used by the United States
Government to inform policy and programming,
such as—
(A) the International Finance Corporation’s
Doing Business surveys;
(B) the International Budget Partnership’s
Open Budget Index; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.049 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7236 December 19, 2019
(C) multilateral peer review anti-corruption
compliance mechanisms, such as the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development’s Working Group on Bribery in
International Business Transactions and the
United Nations Convention Against Corruption,
done at New York October 31, 2003, to further
highlight expert international views on country
challenges and country efforts.
(d) TRAINING.—The Secretary of State and the
USAID Administrator shall incorporate anti-
corruption components into existing Foreign
Service and Civil Service training courses—
(1) to increase the ability of Department of
State and USAID personnel to support anti-cor-
ruption as a foreign policy and development pri-
ority; and
(2) to strengthen their ability to design, imple-
ment, and evaluate more effective anti-corrup-
tion programming around the world, including
enhancing skills to better evaluate and mitigate
public corruption risks in assistance programs.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, we need
to pass the Combating Global Corrup-
tion Act. Today, I join with my col-
league Senator YOUNG to reaffirm bi-
partisan support for this important
legislation.
Corruption threatens international
stability and security and poses a seri-
ous threat to democracy and demo-
cratic values. Ten days ago, December
9, was International AntiCorruption
Day. This day provides an annual re-
minder of the dire need to prioritize
combatting corruption here in the
United States and around the world.
Corruption undermines democratic
institutions, it compromises the rule of
law, and it erodes human rights protec-
tions. It damages America’s global
competitiveness and hampers economic
growth in global markets. It fosters
the conditions for violent extremism
and weakens institutions associated
with governance and accountability.
These are direct threats to our na-
tional and international security.
Earlier this year, Transparency
International published its Corruption
Perceptions Index for 2018. It under-
scored that the failure to curb corrup-
tion is contributing to a worldwide cri-
sis of democracy. Not surprisingly
then, Freedom House similarly re-
ported that 2018 was marked by global
declines in political rights and civil
liberties for the 13th consecutive year.
Sixty-eight countries suffered net de-
clines in political rights and civil lib-
erties during 2018, with only 50 nations
registering gains.
We have all seen the headlines in re-
cent years—from scandals in Liberia,
Hungary, and Guatemala, to the doping
by Russian athletes and their subse-
quent ban from the 2016 Summer Olym-
pics and using aid to influence other
nations’ behavior.
It is clear that where there are high
levels of corruption, we find fragile
states, authoritarian states, or states
suffering from internal or external con-
flict—in places such as Lebanon, Af-
ghanistan and Pakistan, Iraq, Syria,
Somalia, Nigeria, and Sudan.
Different domestic issues may have
sparked the wave of massive protests
we are observing today—whether they
be increases in gas prices or metro
fares—but many of these uprisings
have been sustained by public desire to
weed out leaders’ corruption. Corrup-
tion is no longer being tolerated or ex-
cused.
Corruption operates via extensive
and entrenched networks in both the
public and private sectors. It is ubiq-
uitous and pervasive, but we must ad-
dress it. The costs of not addressing it
or rooting it out are just too great.
Mr. President, we must be clear-
eyed—any fight against corruption will
be long-term and difficult. It is a fight
against powerful people, powerful com-
panies, and powerful interests. It is
about changing a mindset and a cul-
ture as much as it is about establishing
and enforcing laws.
While previous anti-corruption legis-
lation has been crucial, the Combat-
ting Global Corruption Act takes our
commitment to this value further by
bringing a whole-of-government ap-
proach to the issue and bringing more
transparency to the instances of cor-
ruption going on unnoticed in every
country around the world.
The Combatting Global Corruption
Act requires the State Department to
produce an annual assessment, either
by a briefing or by a report, similar to
the Trafficking in Persons Report,
which takes a close look at each coun-
try’s efforts to combat corruption. The
assessment will measure indicators
such as transparency, accountability,
enforcement of anti-corruption laws,
and the extent to which public power is
used for private gain.
That model, which has effectively ad-
vanced the effort to combat modern-
day slavery, will similarly embed the
issue of corruption in our collective
work and make other nations more
conscious of their corruption levels.
The bill includes clear definitions of
corruption and corrupt activities and
underscores the importance of
prioritizing corruption into strategic
planning—across our agencies, bureaus,
and our missions overseas.
It specifically increases coordination
on anti-corruption efforts between the
Department of State and USAID and
formally engages our embassies in the
fight against corruption by estab-
lishing anti-corruption points of con-
tact at our Embassies in critical coun-
tries.
We work across multiple agencies
and in multiple offices to combat cor-
ruption. The roles of these points of
contact, comprised of either the chief
of mission or personnel designated for
the role by the chief of mission, will
foster greater coordination on
anticorruption efforts within the U.S.
government.
It is time for the U.S. Congress to
send a strong message to our Nation
and to the world that corruption can-
not be accepted as the status quo.
It is time that we back up our
words—our commitment to supporting
democratization, human rights, and
fairness globally—with action to pro-
tect those critically important values.
Let’s pass the Combating Global Cor-
ruption Act.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the committee-reported
substitute amendment be withdrawn;
that the Cardin substitute amendment
at the desk be considered and agreed
to; that the bill, as amended, be consid-
ered read a third time and passed; and
that the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported substitute
amendment was withdrawn.
The amendment (No. 1275), in the na-
ture of a substitute, was agreed to.
(The amendment is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Text of Amendments.’’)
The bill (S. 1309), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed.
f
NATIONAL ONE HEALTH
AWARENESS MONTH
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 462, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 462) designating Janu-
ary 2020 as ‘‘National One Health Awareness
Month’’ to promote awareness of organiza-
tions focused on public health, animal
health, and environmental health collabora-
tion throughout the United States and to
recognize the critical contributions of those
organizations to the future of the United
States.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the resolution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the question is on
agreeing to the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 462) was
agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the preamble be agreed to
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—S. 3148
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand is there a bill at the desk,
and I ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the first time.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 3148) to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to list fentanyl-related sub-
stances as schedule I controlled substances.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.049 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7237
December 19, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask for a second reading, and in order
to place the bill on the calendar under
provisions of rule XIV, I object to my
own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will re-
ceive its second reading on the next
legislative day.
f
SIGNING AUTHORITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the major-
ity leader be authorized to sign duly
enrolled bills for the joint resolutions
through Monday, December 23, 2019.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
APPOINTMENTS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair announces, on behalf of the Ma-
jority Leader, pursuant to the provi-
sions of Public Law 106–398, as amended
by Public Law 108–7, and in consulta-
tion with the Chairmen of the Senate
Committee on Armed Services and the
Senate Committee on Finance, the ap-
pointment of the following individuals
to serve as a member of the United
States-China Economic and Security
Review Commission: Roy Kamphausen
of Connecticut for a term expiring De-
cember 31, 2021 (reappointment); the
Honorable James M. Talent of Missouri
for a term expiring December 31, 2021
(reappointment).
The Chair announces, on behalf of
the Democratic Leader, pursuant to
the provisions of Public Law 106–398, as
amended by Public Law 108–7, and in
consultation with the Ranking Mem-
bers of the Senate Committee on
Armed Services and the Senate Com-
mittee on Finance, the appointment of
the following individual to serve as a
member of the United States-China
Economic and Security Review Com-
mission: The Honorable Carte P. Good-
win of West Virginia for a term begin-
ning January 1, 2020 and expiring De-
cember 31, 2021 (reappointment).
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to executive session for the
consideration of the following nomina-
tion: Executive Calendar No. 548.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Sean O’Donnell,
of Maryland, to be Inspector General,
Environmental Protection Agency.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nomination with no in-
tervening action or debate; that if con-
firmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table; that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action;
that no further motion be in order; and
that any statements relating to the
nomination be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the O’Donnell nom-
ination?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the en bloc consider-
ation of the follow nominations: Execu-
tive Calendar Nos. 507, 508, and 509.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nominations of Dana S. Deasy,
of Virginia, to be Chief Information Of-
ficer of the Department of Defense
(New Position); Lisa W. Hershman, of
Indiana, to be Chief Management Offi-
cer of the Department of Defense; and
Robert John Sander, of Virginia, to be
General Counsel of the Department of
the Navy.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nominations en bloc
with no intervening action or debate;
that if confirmed, the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table en bloc; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments related to the nominations be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Deasy,
Hershman, and Sander nominations en
bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY, DECEMBER
23, 2019, THROUGH THURSDAY,
JANUARY 2, 2020
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn to then convene for pro forma
sessions only, with no business being
conducted, on the following dates and
times, and that following each pro
forma session, the Senate adjourn until
the next pro forma session: Monday,
December 23, at 10 a.m.; Thursday, De-
cember 26, at 3:15 p.m.; Monday, De-
cember 30, at 2 p.m.; and Thursday,
January 2 at 6:30 p.m.
For the information of all Senators,
when the Senate adjourns on Thursday,
January 2, 2020, it will next convene at
12 noon on Friday, January 3, pursuant
to the Constitution; further, that fol-
lowing the prayer and pledge, the
morning hour be deemed expired, the
Journal of proceedings be approved to
date, and the time for the two leaders
be reserved for their use later in the
day. Finally, that following leader re-
marks, the Senate be in a period of
morning business, with Senators per-
mitted to speak therein for up to 10
minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECESS SUBJECT TO THE CALL OF
THE CHAIR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate stand in recess subject to the call
of the chair.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:47 p.m.,
recessed subject to the call of the Chair
and reassembled at 8:34 p.m. when
called to order by the Presiding Officer
(Mr. HOEVEN).
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to Executive Session for the en
bloc consideration of the following
nominations: Executive calendar 518,
519, 520, 521, 522, 523, 524, 525, 526, 527,
528, 529, and 411.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the nominations
en bloc.
Ms. COLLINS. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Senate vote on the nomi-
nations en bloc with no intervening ac-
tion or debate; that if confirmed, the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table en bloc;
the President be immediately notified
of the Senate’s action, that no further
motions be in order, and that any
statements relating to the nominations
be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that nomination
525 be removed from the list.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the nominations of
David T. Fischer, of Michigan, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:11 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.095 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7238 December 19, 2019
America to the Kingdom of Morocco;
Morse H. Tan, of Illinois, to be Ambas-
sador at Large for Global Criminal Jus-
tice; Roxanne Cabral, of Virginia, a Ca-
reer Member of the Senior Foreign
Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to
be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America to the Republic of the Mar-
shall Islands; Kelley Eckels Currie, of
Georgia, to be Ambassador at Large for
Global Women’s Issues; Leslie Mere-
dith Tsou, of Virginia, a Career Mem-
ber of the Senior Foreign Service,
Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Am-
bassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to the Sultanate of Oman;
Yuri Kim, of Guam, a Career Member
of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of
Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraor-
dinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Repub-
lic of Albania; Carmen G. Cantor, of
Puerto Rico, a Career Member of the
Senior Executive Service, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to the Federated States of Mi-
cronesia; Robert S. Gilchrist, of Flor-
ida, a Career Member of the Senior
Foreign Service, Class of Minister-
Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraor-
dinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Repub-
lic of Lithuania; Alina L. Romanowski,
of Illinois, a Career Member of the Sen-
ior Executive Service, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to the State of Kuwait; Kelly
C. Degnan, of California, a Career
Member of the Senior Foreign Service,
Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Am-
bassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to Georgia; Peter M.
Haymond, of Virginia, a Career Mem-
ber of the Senior Foreign Service,
Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Am-
bassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to the Lao People’s Demo-
cratic Republic; Michelle A.
Bekkering, of the District of Columbia,
to be an Assistant Administrator of the
United States Agency for International
Development, en bloc.
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
NOMINATIONS IN STATUS QUO
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I send a
list of nominations to the desk and ask
that they be kept in status quo despite
the sine die adjournment of the 1st ses-
sion of the 116th Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nominations in status quo are as
follows:
NOMINATIONS IN STATUS QUO BY COMMITTEE
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND
FORESTRY
Cal. #238—Mindy Brashears, of Texas, to be
Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food
Safety.
Cal. #368—Scott Soles, of Texas, to be
Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agri-
culture.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
Military:
PN 1223—Nicholas W. DiGeorge to be Lieu-
tenant Commander.
PN 1224—Colin R. Young to be Lieutenant
Commander.
PN 1262—Shaun J. Arredondo to be Major.
PN 1263—Steven K. Uhlman to be Major.
PN 1292—Christopher M. Feroli to be
Major.
Civilian:
PN 1277—Elaine A. Mccusker, of Virginia,
to be Under Secretary of Defense (Comp-
troller).
PN 1322—James E. McPherson, of Virginia,
to be Under Secretary of the Army.
PN 1310—Charles Williams, of Missouri, to
be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy.
Cal. #506—Thomas A. Summers, of Penn-
sylvania, to be a Member of the Defense Nu-
clear Facilities Safety Board for a term ex-
piring October 18, 2020.
Cal. #505—Jessie Hill Roberson, of Vir-
ginia, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear
Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring
October 18, 2023. (Reappointment)
Cal. #504—Joseph Bruce Hamilton, of
Texas, to be a Member of the Defense Nu-
clear Facilities Safety Board for a term ex-
piring October 18, 2022.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
Cal. #546—John Bobbitt, of Texas, to be an
Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development.
PN 1153—Peter J. Coniglio, of Virginia, to
be Inspector General, Export-Import Bank.
Cal. #547—Brian D. Montgomery, of Texas,
to be Deputy Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development.
PN 612—Nazak Nikakhtar, of Maryland, to
be Under Secretary of Commerce for Indus-
try and Security.
Exec. No. 500—Bruce Poliquin, of Maine, to
be a Director of the Securities Investor Pro-
tection Corporation for a term expiring De-
cember 31, 2021.
PN 701—Paul Shmotolokha, of Washington,
to be First Vice President of the Export-Im-
port Bank of the United States for a term ex-
piring January 20, 2021.
Exec. Cal. #545—Mitchell A. Silk, of New
York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury.
PN 56—Claudia Slacik, of New York, to be
a Member of the Board of Directors of the
Export-Import Bank of the United States for
a term expiring January 20, 2023.
PN 1034—David Carey Woll, Jr., of Con-
necticut, to be an Assistant Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development.
COMMITTEE ON BUDGET
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
Cal. #369—Michelle A. Schultz, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be a Member of the Surface Trans-
portation Board for the term of five years.
Coast Guard:
PN 1182—Capt. Miriam L. Lafferty to be
Rear Admiral (Lower Half).
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
PN 857—Andrew George Biggs, of Oregon,
to be a Member of the Financial Oversight
and Management Board for Puerto Rico for
the remainder of the term expiring August
30, 2019. (New Position)
PN 858—Jose Baldomero Carrion, of Puerto
Rico, to be a Member of the Financial Over-
sight and Management Board for Puerto
Rico for the remainder of the term expiring
August 30, 2019. (New Position)
PN 859—Carlos M. Garcia, of Massachu-
setts, to be a Member of the Financial Over-
sight and Management Board for Puerto
Rico for the remainder of the term expiring
August 30, 2019. (New Position)
PN 860—Arthur J. Gonzalez, of New York,
to be a Member of the Financial Oversight
and Management Board for Puerto Rico for
the remainder of the term expiring August
30, 2019. (New Position)
PN 861—Jose R. Gonzalez, of New York, to
be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
Management Board for Puerto Rico for the
remainder of the term expiring August 30,
2019. (New Position)
PN 862—Ana Matosantos, of California, to
be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
Management Board for Puerto Rico for the
remainder of the term expiring August 30,
2019. (New Position)
PN 863—David Skeel, of Pennsylvania, to
be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
Management Board for Puerto Rico for the
remainder of the term expiring August 30,
2019. (New Position)
PN 1246—Lanny Erdos, of Ohio, to be Direc-
tor of the Office of Surface Mining Reclama-
tion and Enforcement.
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
Cal. #453—Katherine Andrea Lemos, of
California, to be Chairperson of the Chemical
Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a
term of five years.
Cal. #451—Katherine Andrea Lemos, of
California, to be a Member of the Chemical
Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a
term of five years.
*PN 1247 (will be HSGAC) Robert J. Feitel,
of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Nu-
clear Regulatory Commission.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
PN 1159—Kipp Kranbuhl, of Ohio, to be an
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.
PN 1278—Alina I. Marshall, of Virginia, to
be a Judge of the United States Tax Court
for a term of fifteen years.
PN 1279—Christian N. Weiler, of Louisiana,
to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court
for a term of fifteen years.
PN 1248—Sarah C. Arbes, of Virginia, to be
an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human
Services.
PN 85—James B. Lockhart III, of Con-
necticut, to be a Member of the Board of
Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Med-
ical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four
years.
PN 84—James B. Lockhart III, of Con-
necticut, to be a Member of the Board of
Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Sur-
vivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal
Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term
of four years.
PN 83—James B. Lockhart III, of Con-
necticut, to be a Member of the Board of
Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance
Trust Fund for a term of four years.
PN 82—Jason J. Fichtner, of the District of
Columbia, to be a Member of the Social Se-
curity Advisory Board for a term expiring
September 30, 2024.
Cal. #416—Travis Greaves, of the District
of Columbia, to be a Judge of the United
States Tax Court for a term of fifteen years.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
Cal No. 549 Sung Y. Kim, of California, a
Career Member of the Senior Foreign Serv-
ice, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19DE6.096 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7239
December 19, 2019
the United States of America to the Republic
of Indonesia.
PN 1035—Natalie E. Brown, of Nebraska, to
be Ambassador to the Republic of Uganda.
PN 1249—Todd C. Chapman, of Texas, to be
Ambassador to the Federative Republic of
Brazil.
PN 1296—Jason Myung-Ik Chung, of Vir-
ginia, to be United States Director of the
Asian Development Bank, with the rank of
Ambassador.
PN 1045—Sandra E. Clark, of Maryland, to
be Ambassador to Burkina Faso.
PN 1280—J. Steven Dowd, of Florida, to be
United States Director of the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
PN 1161—John Hennessey-Niland, of Illi-
nois, to be Ambassador to the Republic of
Palau.
PN 1229—Joseph Manso, of New York, a Ca-
reer Member of the Senior Foreign Service,
Class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of
Ambassador during his tenure of service as
United States Representative to the Organi-
zation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weap-
ons.
PN 1231—Dorothy Shea, of North Carolina,
to be Ambassador to the Lebanese Republic.
PN 1281—Henry T. Wooster, of Virginia, to
be Ambassador to the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan.
PN 1164—Donald Wright, of Virginia, to be
Ambassador to the United Republic of Tan-
zania.
PN 1037—Steven Christopher Koutsis, of
Massachusetts, to be Ambassador to the Re-
public of Chad.
Exec. Cal. No. 216 Charles L. Glazer, of
Connecticut, to be a Member of the United
States Advisory Commission on Public Di-
plomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2020.
Cal. #531—Andeliz N. Castillo, of New York
States Alternate Executive Director of the
Inter-American Development Bank.
Cal. #525—Michael George DeSombre, of Il-
linois, to be Ambassador of the United
States of America to the Kingdom of Thai-
land.
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR AND
PENSIONS
Cal. #541—Cynthia L. Attwood, of Virginia,
to be a Member of the Occupational Safety
and Health Review Commission for a term
expiring April 27, 2025. (Reappointment)
Cal. #542—Amanda Wood Laihow, of Maine,
to be a Member of Occupational Safety and
Health Review Commission for the remain-
der of a term expiring April 27, 2023.
Cal. #552—Crosby Kemper III, of Missouri,
to be Director of the Institute of Museum
and Library Services for a term of four
years.
Cal. #69—Charles Wickser Banta, of New
York, to be a Member of the National Coun-
cil on the Arts for a term expiring Sep-
tember 3, 2022.
Cal. #74—Michelle Itczak, of Indiana, to be
a Member of the National Council on the
Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2020.
Cal. #76—Barbara Coleen Long, of Mis-
souri, to be a Member of the National Coun-
cil on the Arts for a term expiring Sep-
tember 3, 2022.
Cal. #78—Carleton Varney, of Massachu-
setts, to be a Member of the National Coun-
cil on the Arts for a term expiring Sep-
tember 3, 2022.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
Cal. #60—Julia Akins Clark, of Maryland,
to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protec-
tion Board for the term of seven years expir-
ing March 1, 2021.
Cal. #340—B. Chad Bungard, of Maryland,
to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protec-
tion Board for the term of seven years expir-
ing March 1, 2025.
Cal. #339—Troy D. Edgar, of California, to
be Chief Financial Officer, Department of
Homeland Security.
PN 798—Elizabeth J. Shapiro, of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge
of the Superior Court of the District of Co-
lumbia for the term of fifteen years.
PN 1048—Rahkel Bouchet, of the District
of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the
Superior Court of the District of Columbia
for the term of fifteen years.
PN 1283—Mark A. Robbins, of the District
of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the
Superior Court of the District of Columbia
for the term of fifteen years.
PN 1284—Carl Ezekiel Ross, of the District
of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the
Superior Court of the District of Columbia
for the term of fifteen years.
Exec. Cal. 554—Paul J. Ray, of Tennessee,
to be Administrator of the Office of Informa-
tion and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Man-
agement and Budget.
Cal. #61—Dennis Dean Kirk, of Virginia, to
be a Member of the Merit Systems Protec-
tion Board for the term of seven years expir-
ing March 1, 2023.
Cal. #62—Dennis Dean Kirk, of Virginia, to
be Chairman of the Merit Systems Protec-
tion Board.
Cal. #498—Peter Gaynor, of Rhode Island,
to be Administrator of the Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency, Department of
Homeland Security.
PN 1153—Peter J. Coniglio, of Virginia, to
be Inspector General, Export-Import Bank.
PN 1247—Robert J. Feitel, of Maryland, to
be Inspector General, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
PN 1250—Michael D. Weahkee, of New Mex-
ico, to be Director of the Indian Health Serv-
ice, Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
Cal. #111—William R. Evanina, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be Director of the National Coun-
terintelligence and Security Center.
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Exec. 555—Jovita Carranza, of Illinois, to
be Administrator of the Small Business Ad-
ministration.
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS
PN 1109—Grant C. Jaquith, of New York, to
be a Judge of the United States Court of Ap-
peals for Veterans Claims for the term of fif-
teen years.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
Exec. Cal. #329—Matthew H. Solomson, of
Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States
Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen
years, vice Emily Clark Hewitt, retired.
Exec. Cal. #358—Diane Gujarati, of New
York, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of New York, vice John
Gleeson, resigned.
Exec. Cal. #384—Robert Anthony Molloy,
of the Virgin Islands, to be Judge for the Dis-
trict Court of the Virgin Islands for a term
of ten years, vice Curtis V. Gomez, term ex-
pired.
Exec. Cal. #461—John Fitzgerald Kness, of
Illinois, to be United States District Judge
for the Northern District of Illinois, vice
Samuel DerYeghiayan, retired.
Exec. Cal. #462—Eleni Maria Roumel, of
Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States
Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen
years, vice Mary Ellen Coster Williams, term
expired.
Exec. Cal. #491—Silvia Carreno-Coll, of
Puerto Rico, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Puerto Rico, vice
Jay A. Garcia-Gregory, retired.
Exec. Cal. #535—Philip M. Halpern, of New
York, to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of New York, vice P.
Kevin Castel, retired.
Exec. Cal. #538—Barbara Bailey Jongbloed,
of Connecticut, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Connecticut, vice
Alvin W. Thompson, retired.
Exec. Cal. #229—Virgil Madden, of Indiana,
to be a Commissioner of the United States
Parole Commission for a term of six years,
vice Patricia Cushwa, term expired.
Exec. Cal. #372—Monica David Morris, of
Florida, to be a Commissioner of the United
States Parole Commission for a term of six
years, vice J. Patricia Wilson Smoot, term
expired.
PN 1174—Scott H. Rash, of Arizona, to be
United States District Judge for the District
of Arizona, vice Cindy K. Jorgenson, retired.
PN 1314—John Charles Hinderaker of Ari-
zona, to be United States District Judge for
the District of Arizona, vice Raner
Christercunean Collins, retired.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
PROMOTING PHYSICAL ACTIVITY
FOR AMERICANS ACT
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 286, S. 1608.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1608) to provide for the publica-
tion by the Secretary of Health and Human
Services of physical activity recommenda-
tions for Americans.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions, with an amendment to strike all
after the enacting clause and insert in
lieu thereof the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Promoting
Physical Activity for Americans Act’’.
SEC. 2. PHYSICAL ACTIVITY RECOMMENDATIONS
FOR AMERICANS.
(a) REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than December 31,
2028, and at least every 10 years thereafter, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘Secretary’’)
shall publish a report that provides physical ac-
tivity recommendations for the people of the
United States. Each such report shall contain
physical activity information and recommenda-
tions for consideration and use by the general
public, and shall be considered, as applicable
and appropriate, by relevant Federal agencies
in carrying out relevant Federal health pro-
grams.
(2) BASIS OF RECOMMENDATIONS.—The infor-
mation contained in each report required under
paragraph (1) shall be based on the most current
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:57 Jan 03, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 6333 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\S19DE9.REC S19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7240 December 19, 2019
evidence-based scientific and medical knowledge
at the time the report is prepared, and shall in-
clude additional recommendations for popu-
lation subgroups, such as children or individ-
uals with disabilities, including information re-
garding engagement in appropriate physical ac-
tivity and avoiding inactivity.
(3) UPDATE REPORTS.—Not later than 5 years
after the publication of the first report under
paragraph (1), and at least every 10 years there-
after, the Secretary shall publish an updated re-
port detailing evidence-based practices and
highlighting continuing issues with respect to
physical activity. The contents of reports under
this paragraph may focus on a particular group,
subsection, or other division of the general pub-
lic or on a particular issue relating to physical
activity.
(b) INTERACTION WITH OTHER RECOMMENDA-
TIONS.—Federal agencies proposing to issue
physical activity recommendations that differ
from the recommendations in the most recent re-
port published under subsection (a)(1) shall, as
applicable and appropriate, take into consider-
ation the recommendations provided through re-
ports issued under this Act.
(c) EXISTING AUTHORITY NOT AFFECTED.—
This section is not intended to limit the support
of biomedical research by any Federal agency or
to limit the presentation or communication of
scientific or medical findings or review of such
findings by any Federal agency.
(d) LIMITATION.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, no physical fitness stand-
ard established under this Act shall be binding
on any individual as a matter of Federal law or
regulation.
Ms. COLLINS. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the committee-reported sub-
stitute be agreed to and the bill, as
amended, be considered read a third
time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment
in the nature of a substitute was
agreed to.
The bill, as amended, was ordered to
be engrossed for a third reading and
was read the third time.
Ms. COLLINS. I know of no further
debate on the bill, as amended.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
If not, the bill having been read the
third time, the question is, Shall the
bill pass?
The bill (S. 1608), as amended, passed.
Ms. COLLINS. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
SIGNING AUTHORITY
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the senior
Senator from North Dakota be author-
ized to sign duly enrolled bills or joint
resolutions during today’s session of
the Senate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY,
DECEMBER 23, 2019, AT 10 A.M.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, if there
is no further business to come before
the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 8:37 p.m., adjourned until Monday,
December 23, 2019, at 10 a.m.
f
DISCHARGED NOMINATIONS
The Senate Committee on Foreign
Relations was discharged from further
consideration of the following nomina-
tions by unanimous consent and the
nominations were confirmed:
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
SHON STEPHEN BELCHER AND ENDING WITH DAVID
MANGO, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON DECEMBER 2, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
KARA MIRIAM ABRAMSON AND ENDING WITH MEGAN
ELIZABETH ZUROWSKI, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RE-
CEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD ON DECEMBER 2, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
JENNY U. ABAMU AND ENDING WITH HAMDA A. YUSUF,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON DE-
CEMBER 2, 2019.
The Senate Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation
was discharged from further consider-
ation of the following nomination by
unanimous consent and the nomination
was confirmed:
THOMAS B. CHAPMAN, OF MARYLAND, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY
BOARD FOR A TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 31, 2023.
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate December 19, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
ROBERT J. COLVILLE, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
LEWIS J. LIMAN, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.
MARY KAY VYSKOCIL, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF NEW YORK.
GARY RICHARD BROWN, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF NEW YORK.
STEPHANIE DAWKINS DAVIS, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
KEA WHETZAL RIGGS, OF NEW MEXICO, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW
MEXICO.
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
MICHELLE A. BEKKERING, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR OF THE
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT.
THE JUDICIARY
ANURAAG SINGHAL, OF FLORIDA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF FLORIDA.
KAREN SPENCER MARSTON, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
DANIEL MACK TRAYNOR, OF NORTH DAKOTA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF
NORTH DAKOTA.
JODI W. DISHMAN, OF OKLAHOMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT
OF OKLAHOMA.
JOHN M. GALLAGHER, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
MICHAEL GRAHAM, OF KANSAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD FOR A
TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 31, 2020.
MICHAEL GRAHAM, OF KANSAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD FOR A
TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 31, 2025.
FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
LAJUANA S. WILCHER, OF KENTUCKY, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE FEDERAL AGRI-
CULTURAL MORTGAGE CORPORATION.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
DANA S. DEASY, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE CHIEF INFORMA-
TION OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
LISA W. HERSHMAN, OF INDIANA, TO BE CHIEF MAN-
AGEMENT OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
ROBERT JOHN SANDER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE GENERAL
COUNSEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DAVID T. FISCHER, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE KINGDOM OF MO-
ROCCO.
MORSE H. TAN, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE AMBASSADOR AT
LARGE FOR GLOBAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE.
ROXANNE CABRAL, OF VIRGINIA, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER–
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS.
KELLEY ECKELS CURRIE, OF GEORGIA, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR AT LARGE FOR GLOBAL WOMEN’S ISSUES.
LESLIE MEREDITH TSOU, OF VIRGINIA, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MIN-
ISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE SULTANATE OF OMAN.
YURI KIM, OF GUAM, A CAREER MEMBER OF THE SEN-
IOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF COUNSELOR, TO BE AM-
BASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF
ALBANIA.
CARMEN G. CANTOR, OF PUERTO RICO, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE FEDERATED
STATES OF MICRONESIA.
ROBERT S. GILCHRIST, OF FLORIDA, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MIN-
ISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA.
ALINA L. ROMANOWSKI, OF ILLINOIS, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE STATE OF KU-
WAIT.
KELLY C. DEGNAN, OF CALIFORNIA, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MIN-
ISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO GEORGIA.
PETER M. HAYMOND, OF VIRGINIA, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER–
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC.
THE JUDICIARY
BERNARD MAURICE JONES II, OF OKLAHOMA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN
DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SEAN O’DONNELL, OF MARYLAND, TO BE INSPECTOR
GENERAL, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
STEPHEN E. BIEGUN, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE DEPUTY SEC-
RETARY OF STATE.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
J. BRETT BLANTON, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ARCHITECT OF
THE CAPITOL FOR THE TERM OF TEN YEARS.
NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
THOMAS B. CHAPMAN, OF MARYLAND, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY
BOARD FOR A TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 31, 2023.
FOREIGN SERVICE
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
SHON STEPHEN BELCHER AND ENDING WITH DAVID
MANGO, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON DECEMBER 2, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
KARA MIRIAM ABRAMSON AND ENDING WITH MEGAN
ELIZABETH ZUROWSKI, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RE-
CEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD ON DECEMBER 2, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
JENNY U. ABAMU AND ENDING WITH HAMDA A. YUSUF,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON DE-
CEMBER 2, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:09 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A19DE6.048 S19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1617
December 19, 2019
HONORING ENSIGN JOSHUA KALEB
WATSON
HON. MARTHA ROBY
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mrs. ROBY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life and sacrifices of Ensign Joshua
Kaleb Watson, who was tragically killed on
December 6, 2019, at Pensacola Naval Air
Station in Florida.
Born and raised in Enterprise, Alabama,
Kaleb was a natural leader and devoted serv-
ant to his community from an early age. In-
spired by his uncle’s service in the Gulf War,
Kaleb knew at a very early age since child-
hood that he wanted to serve his country in
the military.
Kaleb continued to demonstrate his leader-
ship skills at Enterprise High School, where he
participated in JROTC, National Honor Soci-
ety, French Honor Society, and captain of the
rifle team. It was through his experience on
the rifle team that he learned of the opportuni-
ties at the United States Naval Academy.
Kaleb was accepted to attend the prestigious
Naval Academy upon graduating from high
school in 2014. Kaleb continued to serve his
hometown community after graduation by vol-
unteering his time to the rifle team during
school breaks.
At the Naval Academy, Kaleb set his sights
on becoming a Navy pilot, and he excelled. A
dedicated student, Kaleb majored in mechan-
ical engineering and was named to the Dean’s
list and Commandant’s Honors list. Outside of
the classroom, he was a member of the Acad-
emy’s rifle team, served as a wrestling coach,
and was a small-arms instructor. Under his
leadership as captain of the rifle team, the
Naval Academy won its first victory over West
Point in a decade.
After commissioning, Kaleb served a tem-
porary assignment at the Naval Academy’s
Physical Education department until last
month, when he reported to Pensacola to
begin flight training. On December 6, Kaleb
made the ultimate sacrifice for his country
when an active shooter opened fire at the
Naval Air Station. Without hesitation, Kaleb
sprang into action. After being wounded him-
self, Kaleb was able to locate first responders
to identify the shooter, undoubtedly preventing
many more causalities that day.
Madam Speaker, it is my privilege to join
the people of Alabama’s Second Congres-
sional District, the Enterprise community, and
the Watson family to honor Kaleb today. He is
remembered by his peers and many others as
a kind friend, encouraging teammate, and
generous volunteer. Kaleb died a hero, and
his courageous actions and service to this na-
tion will not soon be forgotten as we continue
to share his story of selflessness and valor.
May God bless his family and community as
we mourn the loss of Joshua Kaleb Watson,
and may God bless all of our military mem-
bers who continue to defend and protect the
United States of America.
RECOGNIZING DYLAN M. GOETSCH
AND CHRISTOPHER W. SCHMOKER
HON. DUSTY JOHNSON
OF SOUTH DAKOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor
Dylan M. Goetsch and Christopher W.
Schmoker for their tremendous courage last
year while saving a citizen from a house fire
in Sturgis, South Dakota.
After arriving at the scene of a burning
home in May 2018, police Officer Dylan
Goetsch and Sgt. Christopher Schmoker
rushed into the house without hesitation,
knowing Jason McKee was trapped inside.
They journeyed to the upper level of the home
not once, not twice, but three times in search
of the trapped man. The smoke was so dense,
Officer Goetsch was unable to see more than
a few feet in front of him, but they did not re-
treat until they were able to drag Mr. McKee
to safety.
I was pleased to hear Officer Goetsch and
Sgt. Schmoker are being awarded the Car-
negie Medal by the Carnegie Hero Fund in
honor of their bravery. This award is reserved
for individuals who risk their lives to an ex-
traordinary degree in the attempt to save the
lives of others. I can think of no citizens more
deserving of this award than Officer Goetsch
and Sgt. Schmoker.
I thank both these South Dakotans for their
selfless courage. Our state and country are
better because of citizens like them. I com-
mend them for their outstanding heroism and
congratulate them on the receival of the es-
teemed Carnegie Medal.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 200TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF THE CITY OF
BENNETTSVILLE, SOUTH CARO-
LINA
HON. TOM RICE
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize the City of
Bennettsville, South Carolina and its 200th An-
niversary.
The City of Bennettsville was founded on
December 14, 1819 in Marlborough District on
the Great Pee Dee River. Named after Thom-
as Bennett Jr., the 48th Governor of South
Carolina, the city was formally chartered on
December 20, 1866 and incorporated on
March 4, 1976.
Since its founding, agriculture has been the
number one revenue source in and around
Bennettsville. Agricultural products of
Bennettsville include grain, indigo, cotton, to-
bacco, corn, peanuts, timber, fruits and vege-
tables, as well as the raising of cattle, poultry,
and swine. Agritourism and agritainment have
evolved from the stable agriculture industry.
Upon its founding, the South Carolina Gen-
eral Assembly authorized the construction of a
new courthouse, designed by South Carolina
architect Robert Mills. The Mills courthouse
was replaced in 1852. The following court-
house was headquarters of the 17th Army
Corps of the Army of the United States and
one of the few county seats holding records
dating back to 1785. The current courthouse
was built in 1884.
Madam Speaker, I honor all that have
worked to make the City of Bennettsville a
symbol of American grace and charm and rec-
ognize its 200th Anniversary.
f
CONGRATULATING DUBLIN HIGH
SCHOOL ON WINNING THE FOOT-
BALL STATE CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. RICK W. ALLEN
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
congratulate the Dublin High School Fighting
Irish on winning the Georgia High School As-
sociation 2A Football State Championship.
These young men have worked hard all
season, and this weekend’s big win is a result
of all their work. While at halftime the Fighting
Irish were down, they quickly came back in
the second half to ultimately defeat Brooks
County 42 to 32—demonstrating the true
meaning of perseverance.
This was a unique win, as not one pass was
attempted during the game. But the team won
after rushing 437 yards, bringing Dublin its first
state title since 2006.
I have no doubt this program will continue to
be successful in the years to come, and I look
forward to seeing all these young men will ac-
complish, both on and off the field.
Congratulations to Coach Roger Holmes,
the team, and the entire Fighting Irish commu-
nity.
f
HONORING THE EXEMPLARY LIFE
AND SERVICE OF MAYOR RICH-
ARD GORDON HATCHER
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with
deep sadness and the greatest respect that I
take this time to remember one of Indiana’s
most distinguished citizens, the Honorable
Richard Gordon Hatcher, who served the City
of Gary with the utmost distinction. On Friday,
December 13, 2019, Mayor Hatcher passed
away at the age of 86. Mayor Hatcher’s self-
less and lifelong commitment to serving the
people of Gary, and his dedication to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K19DE8.001 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1618 December 19, 2019
cause of civil rights and advancing racial
equality in all of our communities and through-
out the nation, is to be admired and emulated.
He will be profoundly missed by his family,
friends, co-workers, and the many grateful
constituents whose lives he touched.
Richard Hatcher was born on July 10, 1933,
in Michigan City, Indiana. He graduated from
Indiana University and went on to earn his
Juris Doctor degree from Valparaiso University
in 1959. Following law school, Mayor Hatcher
settled in Gary, Indiana. He practiced at a pri-
vate firm and went on to serve as a deputy
county prosecutor. In 1963, Mayor Hatcher
was elected to the Gary City Council. In this
position, he helped to pass an open housing
law, which ended the practice that forced Afri-
can Americans to live primarily in the city’s
midtown section due to restrictive property
contracts. In 1967, Richard Gordon Hatcher
was elected Mayor of Gary, Indiana, and in
doing so became one of the first two African
Americans in our nation’s history to become
mayor of a large city.
Throughout his twenty-year tenure, Mayor
Hatcher was unwavering and passionate in his
efforts to advocate for civil rights, economic
justice, and equality for all Gary residents and
citizens of the United States. In particular,
Mayor Hatcher devoted substantial efforts to
supporting those most in need in his city. For
example, he was successful in securing fund-
ing for low-cost and public housing in Gary,
and he worked to enhance the availability of
job training so that every citizen could have
the opportunity to meet their own potential and
provide for their family. In addition, Mayor
Hatcher repaved Gary roads, brought garbage
collection services to inner-city neighborhoods
for the first time, and oversaw the construction
and completion of major projects such as the
Genesis Convention Center and the Adam J.
Benjamin Transportation Center. On the na-
tional front, Mayor Hatcher rose to serve as a
political trailblazer for the African American
community. He was instrumental in organizing
the 1972 National Black Political Convention in
Gary, and he also served as chairman of Rev.
Jesse Jackson’s presidential campaign in
1984, as well as his vice chairman four years
later. Mayor Hatcher’s contributions to the City
of Gary, throughout Northwest Indiana, and
beyond are remarkable and immeasurable,
and he is to be honored and commended for
his tireless action.
Mayor Hatcher is survived by his amazing
wife, Ruthellyn, three beloved daughters,
Ragen, Rachelle, and Renee, and six beautiful
grandchildren. He also leaves to cherish his
memory many dear friends and family mem-
bers and a saddened but grateful community.
Madam Speaker, I respectfully ask that you
and my other distinguished colleagues join me
in paying tribute to a true public servant,
Mayor Richard Gordon Hatcher. For his tre-
mendous contributions to the cause of civil
rights, and for his dedication to the City of
Gary and the community of Northwest Indiana,
Mayor Hatcher is worthy of the highest praise.
I thank him for his perseverance, sacrifice,
and struggle. His legacy will serve as a time-
less inspiration for generations to come.
RECOGNIZING THE IRWIN COUNTY
HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL TEAM
HON. AUSTIN SCOTT
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Irwin
County High School football team from Ocilla,
Georgia on their win against Marion County in
the Class A Georgia State Championship on
Saturday, December 14, 2019.
With an impressive 56–14 win over the Mar-
ion County Eagles, the Indians football team
finished their season undefeated (13–0) for
the first time since 1975 and brought home
the state title. This is the fifth time in six sea-
sons that Head Coach Buddy Nobles has led
the Indians to the state finals, all while battling
Stage 4 stomach cancer. He called this team
a ‘‘team of destiny’’ and there is no doubt his
leadership and fighting spirit inspired Irwin
County to bring home another state football
title to Georgia’s Eighth Congressional District.
I want to congratulate the Indians, Coach
Nobles, and the entire football and athletics
staff at Irwin County High School for this ac-
complishment.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RECIPIENTS OF
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL’S
AWARD FOR DISTINGUISHED
SERVICE IN POLICING
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY . Madam Speaker, I rise to
congratulate four law enforcement officers of
the Prince William County Police Department
who have been awarded the Attorney Gen-
eral’s Award for Distinguished Service in Polic-
ing by the United States Department of Jus-
tice. These officers have been selected by the
Office of Community Oriented Policing Serv-
ices for their bravery and commitment to serv-
ice. Only 19 law enforcement professionals
from across the country have been selected to
receive this award this year, and to be recog-
nized by the Department of Justice is a dis-
tinct honor that brings pride to the Prince Wil-
liam County Police Department and the com-
munities that these officers protect.
Throughout their careers, these officers
have bravely placed themselves in the line of
danger. It takes a tremendous amount of cour-
age and character to step into high-risk situa-
tions, qualities that these honorees exhibit in
abundance. In November of 2018, the Prince
William County Police Department received an
emergency call reporting an active shooter.
Upon arriving to the scene, these officers took
immediate action to warn incoming units while
taking cover from gunfire. The shooter, who
was on the roof, ignored commands to sur-
render and was eventually struck and fell to
the ground. Overcoming their fear of a pos-
sible second gunman, the officers exposed
themselves to extract the shooter for medical
treatment and also pulled a civilian from a res-
idence to safety. The bravery and heroism dis-
played that day represents true courage and
went far above and beyond the line of duty.
It is my honor to recognize the following re-
cipients of the Third Annual Attorney General’s
Award for Distinguished Service in Policing:
Officer Evan Jurgenson
Officer Nicholas Kelly
Officer Rachel Mynier
Officer John Yenchak
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me once again in honoring these individuals
for their bravery and dedication and in thank-
ing them for their selfless service. The impor-
tance of their vital roles in protecting the safe-
ty of our neighborhoods cannot be overstated
and is truly worthy of our highest praise.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF DR. WILLIAM
H. LEE
HON. DORIS O. MATSUI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, it is with
profound sadness that I rise to honor the life
of beloved Sacramento Observer founder and
publisher, Dr. William Hanford Lee, who
passed away on September 22, 2019 at the
age of 83. His legacy will live on through the
love of his family and friends, as well as the
Sacramento Observer, a lighthouse for Sac-
ramento’s African-American community. Dr.
Lee was blessed with the support of his fam-
ily, his wife Kathryn (deceased) and sons,
Larry, Billy and Roderick (deceased).
Dr. William Lee was born on May 29, 1936
in Austin, Texas. In the early 1940’s, Dr. Lee
moved to the Sacramento neighborhood of
Del Paso Heights. As a young adult, he at-
tended California State University, Sacramento
and later transferred to University of California,
Berkley, where he received his B.A. in Ac-
counting. His brief employment with real-es-
tate companies Aerojet and IBM Corporations
inspired Dr. Lee to establish his own real-es-
tate and land development company in 1960.
His success in real estate allowed for the es-
tablishment of The Sacramento Observer on
November 22, 1962, marking the beginning of
a revolution in journalism.
Several momentous achievements outline
Dr. Lee’s career: he was awarded an Hon-
orary Ph.D. from Southeastern University in
1970, he was named ‘‘Publisher of the Year’’
by the West Coast Black Publisher’s Associa-
tion in 1985, his newspaper has been named
No.1 Black Newspaper six times, and he was
awarded the John B. Russwurm trophy, the
United States’ top newspaper publishing
honor. Additionally, he was co-founder and
former President of the Men’s Civic League,
co-founder of The Greater Sacramento Urban
League, and co-founder of the Sacramento
Area Black Caucus. Nationally, Dr. Lee served
on the Board of Directors and as an officer for
the National Newspapers Publisher’s Associa-
tion, the Black Press of America, and co-
founded the West Coast Black Publisher’s As-
sociation. These incredible achievements and
roles certainly signify just how powerful Wil-
liam Lee’s presence was in the Sacramento
region, in California, and in our nation.
Madam Speaker, today we honor Dr. Wil-
liam Hanford Lee’s generous contributions to
journalism and education; he has been a men-
tor, an advocate, and a leader—both locally
and nationally. His efforts in providing rep-
resentation for the African-American commu-
nity will be remembered for a life-time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K19DE8.005 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1619
December 19, 2019
INTRODUCTION OF A BILL TO PER-
MIT COMMERCIAL FILMING AND
PHOTOGRAPHY ON THE
GROUNDS OF THE U.S. CAPITOL
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce a bill that would permit commercial
filming and photography on the grounds of the
U.S. Capitol, beyond east of Union Square,
the only area where such filming is currently
authorized. This bill would permit commercial
filming and photography outside of the Capitol
and congressional office buildings by permit,
so long as both the House and Senate are not
in session. In many countries worldwide, free-
dom of expression is limited. Our country
should be the first to encourage commercial
filming and photography of the Capitol, a sym-
bol of U.S. democracy at work. Commercial
filmmakers should not have to go to other cit-
ies or fake capitol buildings for movies and
films about the Capitol.
The current policy permitting filming near
the United States Botanic Garden shows that
Capitol Police can handle filmmaking on Cap-
itol grounds, especially when Congress is not
in session, as my bill would provide. However,
filming from that vantage point captures the
least familiar view of the Capitol. Keeping
filmmakers from standing in front of the Cap-
itol is neither business-friendly nor true to the
nation’s democratic traditions. Encouraging
commercial filming and photography at the
Capitol would help spread the story of our na-
tional legislature around the world. The time is
overdue to allow commercial filming and pho-
tography of the exterior of the historic 19th-
century Capitol.
There is no good reason why commercial
filming and photography should be confined to
Union Square. Specifically, my bill would give
Capitol Police complete discretion to issue a
permit authorizing commercial filming and pho-
tography under the same conditions as those
in Union Square. No policy or security reason
exists to justify limiting commercial filming and
photography of the Capitol complex to only
one location, Union Square, especially consid-
ering that permits are necessary. Visitors are
regularly seen on East Capitol Street (east of
2nd Street) taking pictures, where they get a
full view of the Capitol building, demonstrating
the arbitrary nature of limiting commercial film-
ing and photography to Union Square.
This bill would also provide Capitol Police
the authority to charge fees to cover any costs
incurred by the Architect of the Capitol result-
ing from permit approval, to be deposited into
the Capitol Trust Account. The Capitol Trust
Account was established to accept proceeds
from any fees collected for commercial filming
and photography permits for Union Square.
Amounts in the Capitol Trust Account would
be available without fiscal year limitation for
maintenance, improvements and projects as
the Architect of the Capitol considers appro-
priate, subject to the approval of the Appro-
priations Committees of the House and Sen-
ate.
Views of the Capitol are among America’s
most iconic. Limiting commercial filming and
photography of the Capitol, an important vehi-
cle for telling the nation’s story, does not serve
the American people. Indeed, most of the
world reveres our system of government large-
ly through commercial films and photos of the
Capitol, a symbol of our democracy at work.
Commercial films and photographs of the Cap-
itol, the seat of our democracy, are perhaps
the best modern vehicles for telling the na-
tion’s story and showcasing its democratic
system of government. Republicans and
Democrats alike revere the image of the Cap-
itol as a symbol of patriotism. My bill would
enable appropriate, permitted commercial film-
ing and photography of the Capitol, and would
create economic benefits for the nation, the
District of Columbia, and private business.
I strongly urge my colleagues to support this
bill.
f
IP PROVISIONS FALLING SHORT IN
USMCA
HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, despite the
new provisions intended to protect working
families and support various industries in the
USMCA, there is one very important group
that has been left behind—authors, artists,
and other creators.
America’s arts and entertainment industry is
an important economic engine, with motion
pictures and television alone accounting for
$17.2 billion in annual U.S. exports, rep-
resenting 2.5 times the level of imports. It’s
also an important medium to share and cele-
brate American history, values and culture
with the world, to lift up overlooked stories,
and to bring us together. So, it is unfortunate
that the USMCA includes a provision that
makes it harder for working families in this in-
dustry to make a fair return on their work.
That provision is Article 20.89 (Legal Rem-
edies and Safe Harbors). Article 20.89 (Legal
Remedies and Safe Harbors) should be ex-
cluded from future trade deals. It potentially al-
lows online service providers to profit from
copyright infringement to which they turn a
blind eye. Article 20.89 is styled after Section
512 of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act
(DMCA) known as the copyright safe harbor
provision.
Section 512 of DMCA became law in 1998,
and to some, it seemed a good idea at the
time—a way to help an infant industry grow.
But after several bad court cases and techno-
logical advances, Section 512 minimizes the
responsibility of the big internet platforms to
cooperate with rights holders to protect their
livelihoods. That infant industry is now one of
the world’s biggest. And Section 512 under-
mines creative professionals instead of sup-
porting them and enriches the big internet
platforms at the expense of competitors who
do not enjoy the same loophole.
Today, the web consists of more than 6 bil-
lion pages, and on a high-speed connection, it
takes less than a minute to download a high
definition movie. Illegal streaming, illegal
downloading, and other forms of online piracy
cost an estimated $29.2 billion and $71.0 bil-
lion annually to the U.S. economy. Our trade
agreements should help us combat inter-
national copyright theft instead of locking in a
giant loophole that tilts the playing field
against creative professionals.
Section 512 has been under review by the
Copyright Office since 2015, with a report ex-
pected soon.
Congress should insist that Section 512-
style rules should be omitted from future trade
deals.
f
IMPEACHING DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, FOR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
f
STATEMENT FOR RECORD ON
IMPEACHMENT
SPEECH OF
HON. SALUD O. CARBAJAL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
Mr. CARBAJAL. Madam Speaker, while
none of us came to Congress to impeach a
president, the evidence against Donald Trump
has become abundantly clear. The president
used the power of his office to solicit foreign
interference from Ukraine into our elections,
he attempted to withhold congressionally ap-
proved military aid to advance that request
and he undermined our national security, all
for his personal political benefit. Moreover, he
directed his administration to defy congres-
sional subpoenas to try to obstruct our inves-
tigation into his wrongdoing.
These actions run counter to the oath that
presidents make to uphold our Constitution.
These actions are a direct threat to the secu-
rity of our democracy.
When I joined the Marine Corps, I swore an
oath to our nation. As a member of Congress,
I made that promise again. I will vote to im-
peach because all of us who hold public office
take an oath to defend the Constitution—the
president has abused this responsibility, but I
refuse to do the same.
December 18, 2019 will be remembered as
a serious and somber day in the U.S. House,
but it is also a day where my colleagues and
I made good on our oaths to support and de-
fend the Constitution of the United States
against all enemies, foreign and domestic.
f
COMMENDING KURT ERICKSON
FOR HIS 20 YEARS OF SERVICE
WITH WRAP
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize my friend, Kurt Erickson, and to
commend him for his 20 years of service with
the Washington Regional Alcohol Project
(WRAP) and his dedication to the elimination
of impaired driving and underage drinking in
the Washington metropolitan area.
WRAP is a public-private partnership that
works with law enforcement, community stake-
holders, and advocacy groups in Northern Vir-
ginia, Washington, DC, and Maryland. Kurt
serves as President and CEO of WRAP and
it is not an exaggeration to say that he is the
driving force of the program. For two decades,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.002 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1620 December 19, 2019
he has spearheaded public and government
relations efforts in the DMV area. Kurt has
been named Legislative Chairman of the
Maryland Impaired Driving Coalition, an ap-
pointee by the Governor to the Virginia’s Task
Force to Combat the Influence of Drugs and
Alcohol and has served on multiple boards
and associations.
Among his many duties, Kurt oversees the
SoberRide Program which provides free and
discounted rides home during the holidays.
This program is considered one of the most
successful programs of its kind in the nation.
Kurt has Chaired the Checkpoint Strikeforce
for the last 18 years, working with local and
state law enforcement to get impaired drivers
off the roads. WRAP also has aggressive out-
reach programs for adults as well as youth
and provides multi-media presentations and
school resource guides.
In recognition of his years of service and
dedication, Kurt has received numerous
awards including the 2014 Kevin Quinlan
Award, the 2008 Metropolitan Police Depart-
ment’s Chief of Police Special Award, the
MADD–Chesapeake Region Community
Champion Award, and the National Highway
Safety Administration’s Public Service Award.
Under his leadership, WRAP has also earned
multiple honors including the 2019 Peter
O’Rourke Special Achievement Award from
the Governors Highway Safety Association
and the Virginia Governor’s Transportation
Safety Award.
While Kurt has been publicly lauded by
local, state, and national organizations and re-
ceived many awards, I believe that his most
precious possession is the knowledge of the
countless people who have been kept safe
and the tragedies that have been prevented
through his efforts. Since its inception in 1991,
nearly 79,000 safe rides home have been pro-
vided by SoberRide, the vast majority occur-
ring during Kurt’s tenure. It is not possible to
know how many possible injuries or deaths
have been prevented, but these unknown po-
tential victims all owe a deep debt of gratitude
to Kurt and WRAP.
Madam Speaker, for two decades Kurt
Erickson has played an integral role in the ef-
fort to eliminate impaired driving and underage
drinking. I ask my colleagues to join me in
congratulating Kurt on his 20th Anniversary
with WRAP and in thanking him for his tireless
advocacy and unending efforts to keep our
roads and our residents safe.
f
RECOGNIZING JAKE AND TIFFANY
SACHE OF LAKE CITY
HON. NEAL P. DUNN
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Jake and Tiffany Sache of Levy
County, Florida for their dedication to the agri-
culture industry.
Jake and Tiffany raise beef cattle and har-
vest hay and grass seed on several farms
throughout Levy and Gilchrist counties. They
understand the importance of land conserva-
tion and have been recognized on numerous
occasions for their outstanding conservation
practices on their farm land.
Their commitment to agriculture production
extends beyond their farm and into the com-
munity, where this couple serves in multiple
capacities. They are active in their local Coun-
ty Farm Bureau organization and serve as
members of the Levy-Gilchrist County Young
Farmers and Ranchers Committee.
During Florida Farm Bureau’s annual meet-
ing this past October, they received the high-
est statewide honor for agriculture producers
known as the Achievement in Agriculture
Award. This honor is given to those who are
not only skillful in farm production, but have
also successfully developed their agricultural
enterprise and extensively serve their local
community and Farm Bureau.
Agriculture sustains our economic growth,
promotes environmental stewardship, and con-
tinuously replenishes our food resources. I en-
courage you to thank a farmer whenever given
the opportunity. I thank Jake and Tiffany
Sache for choosing a career path and lifestyle
that sustains our economy and puts food on
the table.
f
SMALL AIRPORT MOTHERS’
ROOMS ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. CAROL D. MILLER
OF WEST VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Mrs. MILLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
ask for support for my bill, H.R. 3362, the
Small Airport Mothers’ Room Act of 2019.
Travelling with infants, while rewarding, can
often be stressful on new mothers. This legis-
lation helps lessen this anxiety and allows for
mothers to have a quiet, private space to care
for their young ones.
As air travel continues to be one of the most
preferred and popular means of transportation,
we need to make sure that airport infrastruc-
ture is properly updated to fit not only the
needs of American mothers but American fam-
ilies as well.
H.R. 3362 would require small hub airports
to construct mothers’ rooms, which are areas
where mothers can nurse their children in pri-
vacy.
The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 re-
quired all large and medium hub airports to
construct mothers’ rooms by 2021. My bill
would help fill the remaining gap and similarly
require small hub airports to install mothers’
room, extending this coverage to 97 percent of
all travelers.
Thank you to Chairman DEFAZIO, Ranking
Member GRAVES and my colleagues on the
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee
for their support on my bill.
I would also like to express my gratitude to
the T&I Committee staff for their assistance
with this legislation.
I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R.
3362.
f
HONORING SARAH E. NAKATA
HON. SUSAN W. BROOKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor my Carmel District Office
intern, Sarah E. Nakata for her work and serv-
ice to the citizens of the 5th District of Indiana.
Sarah has the spirit of a giver, the strength of
a fighter and a heart of gold. She truly is an
inspiration to all of us and I am proud to have
her as a part of my team. The first time I met
Sarah, I was presenting her an offer of ap-
pointment to the prestigious United States Mili-
tary Academy at West Point during my second
year as a Member of Congress in 2014. Her
dream was to serve our nation in the United
States Army and on that day, her dream be-
came a reality.
While Sarah attended high school at Cov-
enant Christian in Indianapolis, she thrived in-
side and outside of the classroom both aca-
demically and athletically. She was a part of
the Rifle Team, Rocket Team, Math Club, a
member of the National Honor Society, at-
tended NASA Explorer School and partici-
pated in band and pep band. Sarah was a
tutor for English, Math, Science, and Spanish,
all while volunteering her time at English as a
Second Language classes as well as at the
National Rifle Association’s National Rifle
Matches. She graduated high school with a
4.3 GPA and ranked first in her graduating
class. She had a love for science, space, and
mathematics but her true passion was rifle
shooting.
While on the Rifle Team at Covenant Chris-
tian High School, Sarah earned nine state ti-
tles, three national junior titles and served as
a team captain. She was an Indiana Rifle
State Champion in 2011 and 2012 through the
Indiana State Rifle and Pistol Association. She
joined the USA Shooting Team and was a Na-
tional Junior Olympic Rifle Championship
qualifier and participant in 2012 and 2013.
Sarah was named the National Metric Grand
Aggregate Prone and Position Intermediate
Junior Champion in 2012 by the National Rifle
Association and was National Metric Iron Sight
Position Junior Champion in 2013. These
achievements caught the attention of multiple
colleges and educational institutions, including
the United States Military Academy at West
Point. Sarah was recruited for her skills in rifle
shooting and received a Letter of Assurance
from the academy. The last thing she needed
in order to attend was a congressional or
presidential nomination.
As she was finishing her time at Covenant
Christian High School, Sarah started the appli-
cation process to attend the United States
Military Academy at West Point through my of-
fice. As many know, it is no easy feat to be
accepted into an academy and it takes hard
work, dedication and commitment, which is ex-
actly what Sarah had. These academies have
the best and brightest students and Sarah was
among those ranks. In the spring of 2014,
Sarah received a congressional nomination
from my office and on May 1, 2014, I pre-
sented her with an offer of appointment. Sarah
reported to duty as a cadet at West Point in
June of 2014 to begin her Plebe year.
During the summer between Sarah’s sopho-
more and junior year in June of 2016, she
began to have abdominal pains and severe
nausea while participating in summer training.
Several days passed and Sarah continued to
feel sick, was unable to digest food, and de-
veloped chronic dehydration. She was flown to
Walter Reed National Military Medical Center
in Bethesda, Maryland. Sarah was diagnosed
with severe gastroparesis, preventing her
stomach from appropriately digesting food. A
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K19DE8.008 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1621
December 19, 2019
year passed, Sarah’s condition had not im-
proved, and the United States Army medically
separated her.
I learned of Sarah’s condition and I knew
her dreams of attending the United States Mili-
tary Academy at West Point and serving in the
Army had come to a close. I reached out to
her in late 2017 and offered her an internship
in my Carmel District Office and she joined my
team in January of 2018. Despite all Sarah
has been through, her spirit, smile and laugh-
ter lifts up my team each and every day she
is in the office. After years of testing, hospital
visits, surgeries and medications, Sarah and
medical professionals still do not have a full
understanding of her illness, symptoms or a
pathway for treatment, recovery or for a cure.
Sarah is resilient and strong. I know her ill-
ness will not hold her back from accomplishing
her new goals and striving for her dreams.
Sarah has taught us all to not let the little
things bother you, as you never know where
life will take you. Life is precious and Sarah is
a true inspiration to all of us. She will go on
to do many great things after her internship
ends and I thank her for her service to the
residents of the 5th District of Indiana and to
our country. It is with immense hope and great
optimism that we look forward to watching
Sarah embark on her future endeavors, with
her parents Heidy and David by her side.
f
APPROPRIATIONS BILLS FOR FY
2020, H.R. 1865 AND H.R. 1158
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, this week
the House passed two bills that will fund the
federal government through Fiscal Year (FY)
2020.
The first package, which I voted in support
of, includes a number of provisions which I
strongly support.
First, I am proud to have worked in conjunc-
tion with Senators MERKLEY and WYDEN as
well as Rep. SCHRADER to ensure that this
package forgives a multi-million-dollar interest
burden owed by Oregon’s Pacific groundfish
fisheries. This burden was created solely by
bureaucratic incompetence, and the inclusion
ofthis provision is a huge win for Oregonians.
The bill also increases funding for programs
that hundreds of Oregonians depend upon,
such as YouthBuild, JobCorps, and Senior
Corps. I led the charge to secure an additional
$13 million above FY 2019 levels for the Sen-
ior Corps program, ensuring volunteers earn
an increased stipend which will allow them to
take hundreds of more dollars home a year. It
also increases funding for Pell Grants—easing
the way for more people to afford an edu-
cation. It also included record investments for
early childhood education programs, more
funding for rural broadband, and a reauthor-
ization of the Secure Rural Schools program
through 2020. In addition, it includes the high-
est funding level for the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund in 15 years.
The bill makes robust investments to sup-
port our nation’s veterans, including funding
for suicide prevention, homeless assistance
programs, rural health initiatives, opioid abuse
prevention, and funding for the VA’s electronic
health record initiative to ensure our veterans
get the care they have earned and deserve.
The package also includes $25 million for
gun violence research at the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the
National Institutes of Health (NIH)—the first
time in more than 20 years. The bill secures
record-level funding for life-saving healthcare
research at the NIH and CDC, and it extends
funding for vital community health centers, the
National Health Service Corps, and Teaching
Health Centers.
Unfortunately, I am deeply disappointed that
this bill included a provision that would extend
market exclusivity rights to Big Pharma for
certain medicines, allowing these companies
to price-gouge consumers for longer periods
of time without competition from more afford-
able, generic drugs.
The second appropriations bill also includes
a number of provisions that I strongly support,
including a 3.1 percent pay raise for both our
men and women in uniform and federal civilian
employees, as well as robust funding for the
STOP School Violence Act, legislation that
would give students and teachers the tools
they need to help prevent school shootings. It
includes increased investment in election se-
curity, the National Guard Youth Challenge,
the National Science Foundation, and the
Census Bureau, so that it can effectively and
accurately carry out the 2020 Decennial Cen-
sus.
I also led the fight to include funding for
esophageal cancer research, which I am
pleased to report was incorporated into the bill
as part of $110 million for the Department of
Defense’s Peer-Reviewed Cancer Research
Program (PRCRP). I strongly support the ro-
bust funding included for numerous other de-
fense health and cancer research programs as
well.
Unfortunately, despite including provisions I
strongly support, I voted against this second
bill because it also contains several objection-
able provisions.
For example, this bill once again increases
funding for an already-bloated Pentagon budg-
et, including a massive increase to the Penta-
gon’s Overseas Contingency Operations
(OCO) account—a fiscally irresponsible slush
fund that is not counted in the budget, has no
congressional oversight, and gives a blank
check to fund endless wars that Congress
hasn’t authorized. For years, Congress has
continued to increase the Pentagon’s budget
despite overwhelming evidence of its waste
and abuse of taxpayer money. I believe this
legislation could have made responsible cuts
to our defense budget without jeopardizing the
safety of our troops, preventing a pay in-
crease, or undermining our national security.
I am also extremely disappointed that this
final bill stripped out a repeal of the 2001 Au-
thorization for the Use of Military Force and a
provision to block funding for the U.S.’s in-
volvement in the Saudi-led coalition’s involve-
ment in Yemen’s civil war—both of which were
included in the House-passed defense appro-
priations bill earlier this year. This is yet an-
other example of Congress abdicating its con-
stitutional authority to finally put a stop to the
endless wars that have cost countless lives
and taxpayer money.
This legislation fails to effectively check the
Department of Homeland Security’s border
policies and spending. The bill includes fund-
ing for President Trump’s wasteful and ineffec-
tive border wall, lacks appropriate restrictions
to prevent the Trump administration from raid-
ing funds from other agencies to spend on im-
migration detention and the wall, and does vir-
tually nothing to provide necessary oversight
against enforcement-only immigration policies.
The Trump administration’s policies have re-
sulted in cruel family separations, record lev-
els of detained immigrants, especially children,
in cruel conditions, and the death of at least
two dozen immigrants while in federal custody.
Instead of enacting strong, enforceable over-
sight mechanisms, this bill largely maintains
the status quo. That is unacceptable. Con-
gress needs to be a check against the execu-
tive branch’s authority.
For these reasons, I opposed this second
appropriations package. I will continue to fight
against Republican efforts to hand billions of
dollars in taxpayer money to a bloated and
wasteful Pentagon and work to rein in the
Trump administration’s cruel enforcement-only
immigration agenda.
f
RECOGNIZING THE WINNERS OF
THE PI LAMBDA LAMBDA CHAP-
TER OF THE OMEGA PSI PHI
FRATERNITY, INC.’S 2019
ACHIEVEMENT WEEK AWARDS
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the 15th Anniversary of the Pi
Lambda Lambda Chapter of the Omega Psi
Phi Fraternity, Inc. and to congratulate winners
of this year’s Pi Lambda Lambda Achievement
Week Awards. The winners of this award ex-
emplify the four founding principles of Omega
Psi Phi. The contributions of these men and
women have been influential to the commu-
nities of Prince William County.
The Pi Lambda Lambda Chapter of the
Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc. was chartered
in 2004 and supports their mission to help oth-
ers in need. The chapter includes the commu-
nities of Prince William County, the City of Ma-
nassas, the City of Manassas Park, and Staf-
ford County. Through their community activ-
ism, they sponsor a variety of initiatives to en-
rich their neighborhoods through educational
and humanitarian activities. Each year, individ-
uals who have made a significant impact are
honored for their efforts. It is my honor to in-
clude in the RECORD the following names of
the 2019 Achievement Week Award recipients:
The Citizen of the Year Award: Francia
Salguero
The Colonel Charles Young Military Leader-
ship Award: Major Ahmad G. Andrews
The Founders Lifetime Achievement Award:
Rev. (Dr.) Luke E. Torian
Superior Service Award: Albert Woods
Omega Man of the Year: Jeffrey W. Allen
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in congratulating the 2019 Pi Lambda
Lambda Achievement Week Award winners.
These individuals all played a significant role
in enriching our neighborhoods, serving as
testament of the generosity of the Omega Psi
Phi Fraternity. I thank them and all the mem-
bers of the Pi Lambda Lambda Chapter for
their immense contributions to our community
and wish them continued success.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.007 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1622 December 19, 2019
HONORING THE LEGACY OF THE
USS PITTSBURGH (SSN–720)
HON. GUY RESCHENTHALER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the legacy, veterans,
and service members of the USS Pittsburgh
(SSN–720), a fast-attack Los Angeles Class
Submarine. Next month, the USS Pittsburgh
(SSN–720) will be decommissioned in Brem-
erton, Washington after 35 years of service in
the United States Navy.
The USS Pittsburgh (SSN–720) was laid
down in April 1983 and commissioned in No-
vember 1985. In April 1991, the USS Pitts-
burgh (SSN–720) and USS Louisville (SSN–
724) launched Tomahawk missiles against
Iraq during Operation Desert Storm.
Years later, in 2002, the ship departed for
the Mediterranean Sea and participated in Op-
eration Iraqi Freedom. Retired Captain Mark
Breor, then Commander of Submarine Squad-
ron 2, stated of the submarine and crew,
‘‘USS Pittsburgh (SSN–720) provided per-
sistent intelligence, surveillance and recon-
naissance to the joint commanders. The prod-
ucts of these very successful and difficult mis-
sions were converted into a full array of sea-
strike options, which included a 16 Tomahawk
strike by USS Pittsburgh.’’
In November 2017, USS Pittsburgh com-
pleted its 1,000th dive, a milestone few sub-
marines reach in service. Earlier this year, the
USS Pittsburgh (SSN–720) returned to its
homeport, Naval Submarine Base New Lon-
don, after its final deployment.
The USS Pittsburgh (SSN–720) is the fourth
ship to bear the name of a great city that
helped build America. Pittsburgh leads the na-
tion in health care, technology innovation, and
energy industries and dominates athletics with
numerous professional championships. I am
proud to represent southwestern Pennsylvania
in Congress, and I am thankful for the service
of these great sailors aboard the USS Pitts-
burgh (SSN–720).
f
IMPEACHING DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, FOR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
SPEECH OF
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise in
support of two articles of impeachment—one
regarding abuse of power and one regarding
obstruction of Congress—against President
Trump.
I decided to support the President’s im-
peachment after a judicious consideration of
the facts established by the House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) and
the House Committee on the Judiciary, as well
as reflecting upon my constitutional respon-
sibilities as a Member of Congress.
I would note that the constitutional remedy
for high crimes and misdemeanors—such as
abuse of power—is impeachment. Regrettably,
the President’s severe misconduct with re-
spect to Ukraine showed a complete disregard
for our Constitution, our democratic system of
government, and the security of our nation
and our allies. The President left the House
with little choice but to faithfully discharge its
duty.
As the Chairman of the House Appropria-
tions Subcommittee on Defense, I believe that
it is unconscionable that an American leader
would use nearly $400 million in military aid
appropriated by Congress—and signed into
law by the President himself—as leverage for
personal gain.
There are fundamental reasons why U.S.
law provided these desperately needed funds
to Ukraine. I would emphasize that, in 2014,
Russia invaded Ukraine and illegally annexed
the Ukrainian territory of Crimea while Rus-
sian-backed separatist forces seized control of
key cities in eastern Ukraine. The fighting in
eastern Ukraine continues to this day and has
killed more than 13,000 Ukrainians while forc-
ibly displacing more than two million individ-
uals.
Additionally, the impeachment reports
issued by the HPSCI and the House Com-
mittee on the Judiciary present an irrefutable
case that the President’s behavior constituted
an ongoing threat to a free and fair Presi-
dential election in 2020.
Further, I believe that the President’s refusal
to comply with the impeachment inquiry is rep-
resentative of his broader contempt for Con-
gress and its constitutional role as a separate
and coequal branch of government. Congress
must continue to work diligently to protect and
fully exert its complete range of constitutional
prerogatives and maintain the balance of
power that has existed for 231 years.
Finally, I would highlight that the administra-
tion’s complete repudiation of constitutionally-
prescribed legislative authorities stands in
stark contrast to the courage and patriotism
demonstrated by the whistleblower who filed a
formal complaint with the Intelligence Commu-
nity’s Inspector General, as well as the public
servants who testified before the House.
These individuals deserve our utmost respect
and gratitude.
As the Senate moves forward with a trial to
determine whether to convict the President of
impeachable offenses, be assured that I will
continue to work hard to address the pressing
needs of our nation’s citizens, from creating
more opportunities for good-paying jobs to de-
creasing the cost of prescription drugs.
f
CONGRATULATING THE 2019
BISHOP GUILFOYLE FOOTBALL
TEAM
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is my honor to congratulate the 2019
Bishop Guilfoyle Football Team on an out-
standing season.
After a successful playoff bid, the team trav-
eled to Hershey to compete in 2019 1 A State
Championship game. Finishing the year with a
12–3 record, these student athletes should
take pride in their hard-fought season.
The 2019 team includes Andrew Yanoshak,
Konner Kiesewetter, Keegan Myrick, Dylan
Conrad, Noah Ritchey, Dominic Yanoshak,
Adam Chadbourn, Casey Smith, Deven
Wyandt, Michael Lamb, Branden Wasser,
Ryan Donoughe, Cooper Rother, Karson
Kiesewetter, Anthony Cioffari, Vincent Cioffari,
AJ Kilmartin, Ryan Negola, JT Johnston, Adri-
an Johnson, Collin Campbell, Sam Homan,
Drew Abraham, Lucas Steinbugl, Patrick
Reilly, Zach McCloskey, Dylan McNelly,
Jorden McClure, Anthony Edwards, Ian Ben-
nett, Connor Ebersole, Connor Stayer, Sante
Bambocci, Cameron Maloney, Joe Meintel,
Evan Himes, Colin Butler, Brendan Shaffer,
Aidan Bender, Tyler Conigy, Jack Donoughe,
Caleb Stevens, Brady Bithell, Reed Edwards,
and Hayden Fox.
These students were coached by Justin
Wheeler, Darren Elvey, Evan Imgrund, Patrick
Irwin, Patrick Leamer, Joseph Thomas, and
Gabe Walters.
The 2019 team joins a long legacy of
Bishop Guilfoyle Football excellence. During
the past six seasons, the Marauders have
reached the State Championship game four
times.
As a former captain of the Bishop Guilfoyle
Football Team and a proud alumnus, I con-
gratulate these students and their coaches on
a successful season, and I wish them every
continued success both on and off the field.
f
RECOGNIZING CHYANNE THOMAS
AS CONSTITUENT OF THE MONTH
HON. MIKE LEVIN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. LEVIN of California. Madam Speaker,
this Holiday season, I am proud to recognize
Chyanne Thomas, a postal worker from Vista,
as my Constituent of the Month. Chyanne is a
hero for two children, their families, and our
entire community. Chyanne’s vigilance while
on her regular delivery route resulted in the
identification of two children who had been re-
ported missing. Her quick and caring response
allowed these two local children to be safely
reunited with their concerned families.
When Chyanne spotted Abby, a 15-year-old
with autism, she sprang into action. She used
the skills she had learned in a previous job
working with children with disabilities to keep
Abby calm and safe until police arrived. Two
weeks later, Chyanne saw a missing 4-year-
old girl alone during her route, and didn’t hesi-
tate to approach her and make sure she was
okay until police and her parents arrived. With-
out Chyanne’s awareness, compassion, and
quick action, these two kids might still be
missing.
While Chyanne’s action to save those chil-
dren is extraordinary, I also want to recognize
the incredible pressure all postal workers and
delivery drivers are under during the Holiday
season. They endure exhausting hours, gruel-
ing weather, and much more to ensure that
families have their gifts before the Holidays.
Much of their work is taken for granted on a
daily basis, but the Holidays would not be the
same without their dedication, I am extremely
grateful for their service.
I launched a Constituent of the Month to
recognize individuals in the 49th District who
have gone above and beyond to help their
neighbors and support our community. I know
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:46 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\E19DE9.REC E19DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1623
December 19, 2019
the families of those two missing children, as
well as all families who are receiving Holiday
packages, would agree that Chyanne is well-
deserving of this recognition.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
DANIEL F. SCIURY
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Daniel F. Sciury, 81, who
passed away on Friday, December 13, 2019.
Daniel was the face of the labor movement
in Stark County, having been president of the
Hall of Fame Central Labor Council, AFL–CIO,
since 1984.
Mr. Sciury was born in 1938 to William and
Stella Sciury. His father, William, arrived in the
United States from Italy in 1910 as a teen-
ager, and worked for 40 years as a roller
grinder for Timken Roller Bearing Co. Daniel
followed his father’s legacy and held union
leadership for more than 50 years.
Daniel was elected president of United
Steelworkers Local 5260, representing work-
ers at the now-closed Weber Dental Mfg., in
1967. He was a member of the American Fed-
eration of Musicians Local 111 and the Com-
munication Workers of America and helped
the Canton Ex-Newsboys Association charity
raise money to buy needy children winter
coats and clothing. In addition to fighting for
the rights of workers, he also bravely served
his country in Korea.
Mr. Sciury is survived by his children Daniel
(Tracy) Sciury, Melissa (Scott) Baker, Krystina
Sciury, four grandchildren; Frank and Vinny
Sciury, Vivian and Margo Baker, sisters Isabel
‘‘Jeanne’’ Johnson, Rita (John) Prose, numer-
ous nieces and nephews, and many friends.
Daniel was a strong voice in advocating for
the rights of working people and I was very
proud to have stood by his side. Daniel’s lead-
ership was respected by both Republicans
and Democrats and his reputation went well
beyond Stark County. Daniel’s voice will cer-
tainly be missed. My deepest condolences go
out to all whose lives were touched by Daniel.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 100TH SEA-
SON OF THE NATIONAL FOOT-
BALL LEAGUE
HON. BOB GIBBS
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. GIBBS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
along with my fellow Representatives TROY
BALDERSON (OH–12), CHERI BUSTOS (IL–17),
DANNY DAVIS (IL–07), RODNEY DAVIS (IL–13),
ANTHONY GONZALEZ (OH–16), BRIAN HIGGINS
(NY–26), DAVID P. JOYCE (OH–14), MARCY
KAPTUR (OH–09), ROBIN KELLY (IL–02), JO-
SEPH MORELLE (NY–25), GREG PENCE (IN–06),
MIKE QUIGLEY (IL–05), BOBBY RUSH (IL–01),
TIM RYAN (OH–13), STEVE STIVERS (OH–15),
and MICHAEL R. TURNER (OH–10) to com-
memorate the 100th season of the National
Football League. Our Congressional Districts
include the 13 ‘‘Original Towns’’ from which
came the 14 charter teams that formed the
American Professional Football Association,
which would become the NFL.
During its inaugural 1920 season, the found-
ing teams that competed in the new league in-
cluded: the Akron Pros; Buffalo All-Americans;
Canton Bulldogs; Decatur Staleys; Racine
Cardinals; Chicago Tigers; Cleveland Tigers;
Columbus Panhandles; Dayton Triangles;
Hammond Pros; the Heralds (Detroit); Muncie
Flyers; Rock Island Independents; and the Jef-
fersons (Rochester,.N.Y.). Two years later, the
new league was renamed the National Foot-
ball League.
From its humble beginnings, the National
Football League is now a preeminent sports
league, comprised of 32 teams from 22 states
across the country. In the span of a century,
the league has become intricately woven into
the fabric of American life and the foremost
steward of what is now known as ‘‘America’s
Game.’’ The league’s annual ‘‘Super Bowl’’
Championship is the single most-watched an-
nual television event in the United States,
bringing together individuals of all ages, races,
and backgrounds through a common enthu-
siasm for and appreciation of the game of
football.
The two pillars of the NFL are football and
community, which are demonstrated through
the volunteerism and philanthropic efforts of
players, owners, coaches and staff, including
through programs and initiatives ranging from
honoring our nation’s veterans and
servicemembers to promoting cancer aware-
ness to encouraging youth to maintain active
and healthy lifestyles. These efforts, both on
and off the field, reflect the character, commit-
ment, fortitude and teamwork that make our
communities resilient and strong.
We, therefore, recognize the National Foot-
ball League as a great sports league ofthe
United States and congratulate the NFL for
100 seasons of uniting communities across
the country, and look forward to another cen-
tury of NFL football.
f
RECOGNIZING MR. WILLIAM E.
BOGAN
HON. J. FRENCH HILL
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life of Mr. William E.
Bogan, who recently passed away at the
young age of 74.
Mr. Bogan, known as Earle to friends, was
born in Memphis, Tennessee in 1944 before
moving to Higginson, Arkansas in 1993.
He quickly joined the Higginson Fire Depart-
ment and served for nearly 20 years until his
retirement in 2011.
Bogan served as Higginson Fire Chief and
a City Council Member for numerous years.
Higginson’s Community Building is being re-
named the William E. Bogan Community Cen-
ter by the Higginson City Council in honor of
Mr. Bogan’s service and leadership in the
community.
His contributions to his community will not
be forgotten. I extend my respect, affection
and prayers to his wife Catherine, family, and
friends.
HONORING MALCOLM W.
APPLEGATE
HON. SUSAN W. BROOKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the life and legacy of
Malcolm W. Applegate, a titan of journalism in
our nation. From the outset of his career on
the sports beat at the Salina Journal in Salina,
Kansas, to the end of his career as the Presi-
dent and General Manager of Indianapolis
Newspapers Inc., and Publisher of the Indian-
apolis Star, Malcolm was considered by his
peers to be the consummate ‘‘old school’’ jour-
nalist. Ever the prolific writer, Malcolm dedi-
cated himself to delivering honest, informative
and timely news to his readers at each stop
along his storied career.
Malcolm was born on January 26, 1936 in
Kansas City, Missouri, to parents Florence
and Paul Applegate. Growing up in WaKeeny,
Kansas, Malcolm attended Trego Community
High School, spending many hours after
school on the basketball and tennis courts,
forging lifelong friendships, and sparking a
love of sports. After the tragic death of his fa-
ther Paul in 1954, Malcolm and his mother
Florence relocated to Topeka, Kansas, to start
life anew. Wanting to stay close to home Mal-
colm initially chose to attend Washburn Uni-
versity, to study journalism and compete as a
member of both the basketball and tennis
teams. Later transferring to Kansas University,
Malcolm continued his study of journalism
while serving as the Editor of the Daily Kan-
san. It was also during this time that Malcolm
competed as a member of the Kansas men’s
varsity tennis team and joined the Sigma Phi
Epsilon Fraternity.
Near the end of his time at Kansas Univer-
sity, Malcolm would reconnect with grade
school friend Constance Eaton, a student at
nearby Fort Hays State University. Their
friendship would quickly blossom into a life-
long love affair. After they both graduated from
their respective universities, they began their
life together, getting married on July 12, 1959.
After earning a Master’s Degree from the
University of Iowa in 1961, Malcolm joined the
faculty at Fort Hays State University. He later
returned to Kansas University, this time as the
Assistant Dean of the Journalism School. In
1969, Malcolm was offered the chance to join
the well-respected Gannett Newspaper Com-
pany. He relocated to Rochester, New York
with Connie, and their daughters, my very
dear friends Kellie and Paula. Malcolm then
began to rise up the ranks of Gannett which
led to a number of opportunities.
In 1971, Malcolm became the Editor of the
Ithaca Journal in Ithaca, New York. Later in
1975, he relocated to Lafayette, Indiana to be-
come the Publisher of the Lafayette Journal &
Courier, and the Regional Vice President of
USA Today. Malcom’s next opportunity came
with a move to Lansing, Michigan in 1986,
where he would serve as both the Publisher of
the Lansing State Journal and Vice President
of USA Today.
In 1990, Malcolm and his family arrived at
their final stop in Indianapolis, Indiana, where
Malcolm served as the President and General
Manager of Indianapolis Newspapers Inc., and
as Publisher of the Indianapolis Star until his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.012 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1624 December 19, 2019
retirement in 1998. Under his stewardship, he
prepared the Indianapolis Star for the new dig-
ital era of news journalism, maintaining the pa-
per’s status as a beacon of journalistic integ-
rity during this time of extreme transformation
throughout the industry. Serving in these many
leadership roles throughout the decades
helped to mold Malcolm into one of the pre-
mier newspapermen in the United States. At
every stop along his career, Malcolm was
known for being both a mentor to young jour-
nalists, and a bonafide newsman, able to
show the same dedication to the local news
beat, that he showed when interviewing promi-
nent national figures such as fellow Kansan
Senator Bob Dole and others.
Upon his retirement, Malcolm maintained a
role in the Indianapolis community as a dedi-
cated philanthropist. His work with organiza-
tions such as Goodwill Industries, Big Brothers
Big Sisters, and the United Way of Central In-
diana helped to improve the lives of many fel-
low citizens. Malcolm was also very involved
with the Indianapolis 500 Festival, a volunteer
organization that conducts civic events cele-
brating the Indianapolis 500. As a loyal Kan-
sas Jayhawk alumni, Malcom donated
$500,000 to create the Malcolm W. Applegate
Distinguished Professorship in Editing Fund at
Kansas University’s School of Journalism in
2002.
Always the avid sportsman, Malcolm was
often seen on the tennis courts of the commu-
nity. As a lover of all sports, Malcolm took dis-
tinct pleasure in sharing his love of sports with
his children and grandchildren, raising an im-
pressive family of athletes. Known by his fam-
ily as ‘‘the World’s Biggest Kansas Jayhawk
Fan’’, his daily wardrobe choices often in-
cluded the school colors Crimson & Blue. Also
an avid fan of both the Indianapolis Colts and
Indiana Pacers, friends would often see him
and his family in their season ticket seats
ready to cheer the home team to a victory.
After many decades of service to both his
readers and his fellow citizens, Malcolm
passed away on October 20, 2019. Malcolm
will be forever missed by his family, friends,
colleagues, and the entire national journalism
community. On behalf of Indiana’s Fifth Con-
gressional District, I extend my deepest con-
dolences to Malcolm’s wife Connie, their
daughter Kellie Prusiecki, her husband Drew,
grandchildren Katie and Adam, as well as their
daughter Paula Quammen, her husband Ron,
grandchildren Christopher and Matthew, and
all who mourn his passing.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF ANDY
ANDERSON OF MEXICO BEACH
HON. NEAL P. DUNN
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Andy Anderson who was called
home to his Lord and Savior last month. Andy
is known by many throughout the State of
Florida for his political endeavors and accom-
plishments.
Four short months ago, he and his family
packed up and moved to Mexico Beach where
Andy inherited the role of City Manager. I had
the honor and privilege of meeting Andy while
he served in this position. He took his respon-
sibilities seriously by taking on one of the most
devasted cities touched by Hurricane Michael.
Andy knew the work that was cut out for him,
but he was up for the challenge.
Mexico Beach and Bay County instantly
knew that Andy belonged there, and everyone
soon realized what a great person and public
servant Andy was.
Prior to his service with Mexico Beach,
Andy served as a City Councilman for the City
of Palm Bay and as a County Commissioner
for Brevard County. The entire State, along
with Mexico Beach and the Anderson family,
is now missing a remarkable man and our
hearts go out to those lives that Andy has
touched.
Andy Anderson was a truly incredible indi-
vidual. Madam Speaker, please join me in
honoring the life of Mr. Andy Anderson.
f
RECOGNIZING CALIFORNIA HIGH-
WAY PATROL ASSISTANT CHIEF
LAURA QUATTLEBAUM
HON. RAUL RUIZ
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. RUIZ. Madam Speaker, I rise to recog-
nize California Highway Patrol Assistant Chief
Laura Quattlebaum for her years of service
with the California Highway Patrol.
Every day, our first responders and public
safety officers put their lives on the line to
keep us safe. In our local communities, a shin-
ing example of that very selflessness and
courage is California Highway Patrol Assistant
Chief Laura Quattlebaum.
Assistant Chief Quattlebaum is an amazing
woman, full of character and integrity. I am
humbled to have worked alongside her in our
community, and I am honored to call her my
friend.
For more than 30 years, Assistant Chief
Quattlebaum has served as a dedicated public
officer for my constituents as well as countless
other Californians. After graduating from the
California Highway Patrol Academy, she went
on to act as Public Information Officer for the
City of Indio. From this critical position to her
current role as California Highway Patrol As-
sistant Chief, she has answered the call many
times to defend our public safety.
Throughout her career, Assistant Chief
Quattlebaum has been recognized on numer-
ous occasions for her outstanding work. As
Lieutenant in the Indio Area, she received the
Commissioner’s Commendation for her leader-
ship in Cultural Awareness and Racial
Profiling training. Six years later, Assembly-
man Brian Nestande awarded Assistant Chief
Quattlebaum the 2013 Women of Distinction
Award. Again in 2014, Assemblyman Manuel
Perez presented her with the Woman of Year
award in recognition of her service to the peo-
ple of California.
Chief Quattlebaum is known to her col-
leagues as a hardworking and selfless leader.
Her tireless commitment to bettering the lives
of others is reflected in her incredible advo-
cacy for those she serves alongside and for
peace officers throughout the country. I have
witnessed this dedication firsthand on multiple
occasions, most notably, when we worked to-
gether to successfully double our nation’s
funding for mental health services for our local
law enforcement agencies.
Assistant Chief Quattlebaum’s career in
public service is a true testament to her devo-
tion to community, country, and public safety.
Her unwavering dedication to the people of
California is admirable.
After she retires from her position as Cali-
fornia Highway Patrol Assistant Chief this
year, I have no doubt that she will continue to
positively impact our community as she men-
tors and prepares students at College of the
Desert for a future in law enforcement.
I want to thank Assistant Chief Quattlebaum
for her years of service and for all that she
has done to keep our communities safe. On
behalf of California’s 36th Congressional Dis-
trict, I wish her a long, happy retirement.
f
RECOGNIZING MAJOR DANIEL
NASKE
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Major Daniel Naske of the
U.S. Air Force, upon his graduation from the
U.S. Air Force Legislative Fellowship program.
Assigned to my office for the 2019 calendar
year, Major Naske quickly became an integral
part of my team, lending his expertise and ex-
perience as a senior pilot and U.S. Air Force
Weapons Officer to guide and inform my work
as Chairman of the Readiness Subcommittee
within the House Armed Services Committee.
Over this past year, Major Naske has worked
closely with my personal staff and Readiness
Subcommittee staff on the military’s most
pressing readiness challenges. He will be
deeply missed after an exceptional year of
service.
Major Naske is a native of upstate New
York and is a Distinguished Graduate from
Clarkson University ROTC with a degree in
Electrical Engineering. He also holds a Master
of Arts in Military History from American Mili-
tary University.
Major Naske began his flying career in 2009
and was first assigned as a pilot of the MC–
12W reconnaissance aircraft. In 2011, Major
Naske became qualified on the C–17A
Globemaster III and became an Instructor Pilot
in 2013. Additionally, he is a graduate of the
esteemed U.S. Air Force Weapons School.
Major Naske’s exemplary U.S. Air Force ca-
reer spans more than 2,400 hours in airlift and
reconnaissance aircraft, and of that, 1,002 are
in combat.
Major Naske and his wife, Caitlin, have two
beautiful daughters, and his family continues
to support him and his service to our nation.
This moment is bittersweet, as we are deep-
ly saddened to lose such an essential member
of our team. However, we are excited for what
his career and future hold, knowing that he will
be a force for good and continue to impact the
lives of those around him, just as he did here.
Dan, know that you will always have a fam-
ily here and we hope that one day your path
leads you back to the Halls of Congress.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of the U.S. Con-
gress and a grateful Nation, I extend our
deepest appreciation to Major Daniel Naske
for his dedicated service to the U.S. Air Force,
U.S. House of Representatives, and to our
Nation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.015 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1625
December 19, 2019
INTRODUCTION OF THE HAWAI’I
INVASIVE SPECIES PROTECTION
ACT
HON. ED CASE
OF HAWAII
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
join my colleague, Representative GABBARD, in
introducing our bill to protect one of the most
unique and fragile environments on Earth, our
Hawai’i, from devastating invasive species.
Invasive species pose an especially grave
threat to Hawaii’s unique ecosystems, natural
resources and agricultural communities, in part
due to Hawaii’s unique geography. Hawai’i is
the most isolated island chain and one of the
most ecologically diverse places in the world.
We are 2,282 miles from the Continental
United States, 2,952 miles from Japan and
4,772 miles from Washington, D.C., with no
other islands in close proximity. We have with-
in our constrained borders ten of the thirteen
world climate zones, with ecosystems ranging
from desert to tropical, where plants and ani-
mals that found their way to Hawai’i evolved
like nowhere else. A 2014 survey identified
fully 9,975 endemic species in Hawai’i. These
species include the Hawaiian scarlet
honeycreeper, the ’i’iwi; the flowering ever-
green; and the state bird of Hawai’i, the nēnē.
However, tragically, in large part due to
invasive species, Hawai’i has become the en-
dangered species and extinction capital of the
world. Hawai’i currently has 503 species listed
as endangered, more than any other state and
almost half of the total endangered species
nationwide. Many of these species are criti-
cally endangered and face an extremely high
risk of extinction in the wild. Although we will
never know the true number of species that
have gone extinct in Hawai’i, best estimates
are that in the last 200 years alone, 28 bird,
72 snail, 74 insect and 97 plant species have
gone extinct.
As one particularly poignant example, earlier
this year the Atlantic published an article, The
Last of Its Kind, which chronicled the death of
George the snail. He was the last achatinella
apexfulva, a species of tree snail that is en-
demic to the island of O’ahu. This article calls
attention to the alarming fact that snails in Ha-
wai’i are disappearing at an alarming rate, per-
haps faster any animal on Earth right now, vic-
tims of various factors in part linked to
invasive species.
The threat to our state tree, the ‘ōhi’a lehua,
is also illustrative of our growing crisis. Used
for poi boards and outrigger canoes, the ’ōhi’a
lehua is important to Hawaiian culture and the
islands’ watersheds. As the first tree to grow
in new Hawai’i lava flows, ’ōhi’a grows
throughout the watershed creating new soil,
stabilizing steep mountain ridges and com-
prises approximately 80 percent of Hawaii’s
native forests. However, rapid ’ōhi’a death, or
ROD, caused by an invasive fungal pathogen,
kills ’ōhi’a trees quickly, and threatens the sta-
bility of Hawaii’s native forests. Since its dis-
covery on the Big Island in 2014, ROD has
spread to Kaua’i, Maui and O’ahu, and has
killed hundreds of thousands of trees.
Hawaii’s unique circumstances also have
given rise to one of our nation’s most diverse
and productive agricultural communities. With
a year-round growing cycle, our crops have
ranged throughout our history from the highest
quality sugar and pineapple and cattle to trop-
ical specialty crops like fruit and cut flowers in
the highest demand worldwide.
Yet it is exactly because these crops like
our natural resources have adapted to Ha-
waii’s uniqueness that they are the most sus-
ceptible to devastation from external species
against which they have no natural defenses.
Invasive species have drastically impacted ag-
riculture in Hawai’i, threatening some of the is-
land’s most valuable crops in the state’s third-
largest industry.
The coffee berry borer, which was discov-
ered in Kona in 2010, now infects all ofthe cof-
fee growing islands in Hawai’i, except Kaua’i.
The coffee berry borer can cause yield losses
of between 30 and 35 percent and affects the
quality ofthe coffee beans, directly impacting
the income of growers. Our failure to prevent
coffee leaf rust from entering Hawai’i could
leave one of Hawaii’s most iconic industries
devastated.
Hawaii’s third most valuable crop, the maca-
damia nut, is under threat from the maca-
damia felted coccid. Macadamia felted coccid
has been found in all of Hawai’i Island’s maca-
damia growing regions. The felted coccid re-
duces macadamia tree output by draining nu-
trients from the tree. Invasive species coupled
with increased rain led to a 22 percent decline
in the macadamia nut harvest this year com-
pared to last year.
Yet despite these incontrovertible and grow-
ing impacts of external species on Hawaii’s
natural resources and economy, existing fed-
eral law leaves Hawai’i largely defenseless
against increasingly destructive invasives. Im-
ports by air and sea, the only means of in-
bound transportation to our island state, lack
any effective regulation to screen out
invasives. This is despite a fairly robust
screening of exports from Hawai’i to the Conti-
nental United States to screen out invasives
from Hawai’i viewed as harmful to mainland
agriculture (invasives that, ironically, were
invasives into Hawai’i to start with).
I sought to crack down on this lax regime to
prevent and curb invasives with my introduc-
tion in 2005 of H.R. 3468, modeled after New
Zealand and other isolated jurisdictions with
then like now the most stringent invasive spe-
cies prevention regimes in the world. Since
the introduction of that bill, the threats from
invasives have only grown. Since 2005, 195
invasive species have been introduced to Ha-
wai’i. That is in addition to the roughly 5,000
invasive species that have been introduced to
Hawai’i throughout its history.
Our bill, the Hawai’i Invasive Species Pro-
tection Act, will require the U.S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) Animal and Plant Inspec-
tion Service (APHIS), in cooperation with other
federal departments and the State of Hawai’i,
to conduct visual, x-ray and canine inspec-
tions, as appropriate, on person, baggage,
cargo and any other article destined for direct
movement to the State of Hawai’i. The inspec-
tions will search for high-risk invasive species
and agricultural materials. The inspections will
be conducted at airports, ports and postal
sorting facilities prior to direct travel to the
State of Hawai’i.
Our bill further requires APHIS to work with
the State of Hawai’i to develop and publish a
list of the high-risk invasive species and agri-
cultural materials for the State of Hawai’i. It
pays for these inspections by increasing Agri-
culture Quarantine Inspection fees to cover
the full cost of inspection.
If we truly care about the threat that contin-
ued and escalating invasive species pose to
one of the most invaluable and unique eco-
systems on earth, in addition to our unique
economy and way of life, then the stark reality
is that this bill is what it will take. Again, it is
not revolutionary when compared to other
countries that have not only recognized this
threat but actually done something about it.
And it is certainly not revolutionary when com-
pared to longstanding domestic restrictions on
exports from Hawai’i, leading to the basic
point that if these invasive species prevention
requirements are good enough for the rest
ofthe country and much ofthe world then
they’re good enough for Hawai’i.
Madam Speaker, I am grateful to this House
for your understanding and careful consider-
ation of Hawaii’s challenge and opportunity,
and ask for our bill’s expeditious passage.
Thank you (Mahalo).
f
IMPEACHING DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, FOR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
SPEECH OF
HON. RON KIND
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
Mr. KIND. Madam Speaker, I am the only
member of Congress who has voted to open
impeachment inquiries against Presidents Wil-
liam J. Clinton and Donald J. Trump, a Demo-
crat and a Republican.
Since then, I have voted to hold attorneys
general of both parties in contempt for ob-
structing legitimate congressional inquiries.
One of the most important roles for Con-
gress to perform is acting as a coequal branch
of government, holding the executive branch
accountable to the rule of law and the Con-
stitution.
No one comes to Congress to impeach a
president. I have always said it should be a
last resort. I know impeachment is inherently
divisive and brutal. The first casualty is usually
the facts. I took an oath of office, not to any
political party or person, but to preserve, pro-
tect and defend the Constitution of the United
States. Congress is the only institution in our
democracy that can hold a president account-
able.
The House opened an inquiry after learning
of a whistleblower complaint alleging that the
president actively coerced Ukraine to meddle
in our elections.
This complaint came from a nonpartisan in-
telligence officer working in the White House.
By law, the report had to be turned over to
Congress to be investigated.
As a formal special prosecutor, I know that
it is important to follow the facts and evidence.
For the past few months, the House inves-
tigated these serious allegations outlined in
the whistleblower’s report. Here are those
facts:
During a phone call on July 25th, President
Trump asked Ukrainian President Volodymyr
Zelensky to ‘‘do us a favor though,’’ imme-
diately after discussing frozen military aid. He
urged President Zelensky to work with his per-
sonal attorney Rudy Giuliani and Attorney
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.019 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1626 December 19, 2019
General William P. Barr in opening investiga-
tions connected to a political opponent, Vice
President Joseph Biden, Jr., and a debunked
conspiracy theory alleging that Ukraine—not
Russia—was responsible for meddling in the
2016 election.
Just weeks before the call, President Trump
withheld nearly $400 million in critical security
assistance to Ukraine, which had been over-
whelmingly approved by Congress. No reason
was given for the hold beyond that it was di-
rected by the president. The hold on security
assistance was lifted only after the whistle-
blower complaint was filed and Congress
opened its inquiry.
The investigation also revealed that besides
withholding military aid, the president and his
allies withheld White House meetings, phone
calls and trade preferences from Ukraine.
We heard from nonpartisan State Depart-
ment and intelligence officials who worked for
the president, and they confirmed the allega-
tions outlined in the whistleblower reporter.
I have reviewed the evidence and followed
the hearings. It is clear the president’s actions
were a flagrant abuse of constitutional power;
it was unlawful, and it jeopardized our national
security.
The president had every opportunity to
present contrary evidence but did not. Instead,
he chose to obstruct the inquiry, preventing
top officials from testifying and withholding rel-
evant information.
Some have argued to let the voters in the
next election decide. But how can we trust an
election that the president is trying to corrupt?
I grew up in this country believing no one is
above the law, including the president. If any
president—Democrat or Republican—had
committed these offenses, I would reach the
same conclusion. And I ask others how they
would feel if President Obama, instead of
President Trump, engaged in this conduct.
Not all bad conduct is impeachable. Being
rude or mean is not impeachable. Jaywalking,
petty theft or infidelity does not put our na-
tional security at risk. But asking another
country to meddle in our election and with-
holding vital security assistance to an ally is
what our founders feared and why they placed
impeachment in our Constitution.
The president once said that he could stand
in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot some-
body without losing any support. Clearly, he
was exaggerating, but have we become so
partisan, polarized, and tribal that as long as
it is someone on our ‘‘team,’’ they can defy
the law?
The president is wrong to believe this is all
about him. More importantly, it is about de-
fending the rule of law and our Constitution
and what signal we send future presidents of
what is acceptable behavior. In short, do we
want a democracy where no one is above the
law, or do we want a monarchy?
The decision of whether the president
should be removed from office now rests with
the Senate. In the meantime, I will continue to
work across party lines, tackling issues of im-
portance like lowering health care and pre-
scription drug costs, ending trade wars, and
combating the student loan debt crisis.
IMPEACHING DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, FOR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
SPEECH OF
HON. K. MICHAEL CONAWAY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, other
than authorizing an act of war, impeachment
is the gravest item that we as a Congress can
consider. The decision to move forward with
impeachment of a United States President is
so consequential that it has only been done
three times in our entire nation’s history prior
to this year, all based on legitimate evidence
of criminal behavior. Unfortunately, many of
my colleagues have diminished what should
be a solemn and grave proceeding into an ab-
solute political circus, simply because they
don’t like the man occupying the White House.
Many Democrats have been intent on im-
peaching this President since the day he took
office. Their actions are clearly motivated by
pure hatred for President Trump. This im-
peachment vote today is simply the next step
in their long-held plan to remove him from of-
fice.
The partisan impeachment investigation run
by the House Intelligence Committee was un-
necessarily held behind closed doors, in a
room designed to share classified information.
Nothing classified was shared during these
meetings, but the result of this decision was
that most Members of Congress and all Amer-
icans were blocked from hearing the facts for
themselves.
It’s also critical to remember that the House
Intelligence Committee had no business con-
ducting the impeachment inquiry to begin
with—the House Judiciary Committee is the
Committee tasked with all responsibilities sur-
rounding impeachment in the House of Rep-
resentatives. The Intelligence Committee had
no business running this investigation at all, let
alone running it in secret. As with past im-
peachment investigations, the investigation
should have been led by a special prosecutor
or independent counsel who then would turn
over their findings to the Judiciary Com-
mittee—none of this happened here.
Chairman SCHIFF repeatedly withheld crucial
information from Republicans, including the
ability for anyone but himself and his staff to
speak with the whistle blower at the center of
this investigation. He was even called out by
liberal media outlets for spreading misinforma-
tion and falsehoods throughout the impeach-
ment process.
The public hearings were held with com-
plete disregard for the House Rules and dec-
ades of precedent. Republicans were not al-
lowed to call witnesses or make basic par-
liamentary motions. In fact, the only witnesses
allowed to testify publicly were those who fit
neatly within the Democrats’ predetermined
narrative.
Most importantly, we have not been pre-
sented with any real evidence that proves the
President is guilty of ‘‘high crimes and mis-
demeanors,’’ as required by the Constitution to
remove a duly-elected president. If there were
criminal activity, as many Democrats have
claimed, then why are there no crimes listed
in the articles of impeachment?
As a member of the House Permanent Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence, I have had a
ringside seat for not only the impeachment
proceedings, but for the years of investigations
into President Trump that preceded this one.
When I led the Intelligence Committee’s Rus-
sia Investigation, the Democrat minority led by
Rep. SCHIFF was given every opportunity to
participate, and they did so. They were not
treated as a minority party, where their objec-
tions and right to call witnesses were denied
as the Democrats did to Republicans in this
impeachment investigation. I treated them with
fairness and dignity and did not cast asper-
sions on them by calling their loyalty to our
country or motivations into question. The in-
vestigation into Russia meddling was thorough
and took more than fifteen months, during
which we interviewed over 70 witnesses and
poured over more than 300,000 documents.
This impeachment investigation, by contrast,
was rushed through in less than two months,
with just a handful of witnesses.
The charade of a fair proceeding was fur-
ther emphasized with the Democrats’ refusal
to let the defendant offer evidence and
produce witnesses. The defendant—President
Trump—has a right to defend himself, a right
which was only ceremoniously and speciously
offered once the investigation and report were
completed.
It is clear—the verdict in the House was
predetermined.
This has been a colossal waste of taxpayer
dollars and of Congress’ time. However, my
greatest fear is that it’s not over. When Demo-
crats found no evidence of collusion during the
Russia Investigation, they pivoted to the
Mueller investigation. When Special Counsel
Mueller’s report did not include anything
Democrat’s found useful, they refocused their
efforts once again to hone in on a supposed
scandal with Ukraine. When this inevitably
fails too, what will be the next casualty in their
desperate attempt to destroy a president they
dislike?
We have forever weakened this body by
turning impeachment into a political weapon
and set a terrible precedent for all future Con-
gresses. This impeachment scheme is nothing
more than an attempt to overturn the 2016
election and to conduct taxpayer-funded oppo-
sition research and damage the President’s
electability heading into 2020.
The American people see right through this
charade, and are fed up. It’s time to stop this
madness and get back to the important work
the American people sent us here to do.
f
IMPEACHING DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, FOR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
SPEECH OF
HON. TONY CÁRDENAS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
Mr. CÁRDENAS. Madam Speaker, the
United States House of Representatives will
vote to impeach the President.
This is one of the biggest decisions I have
had to make in my seven years in Congress.
Since I came to Congress, my goal has al-
ways been to help the lives of the people of
the San Fernando Valley.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.020 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1627
December 19, 2019
And in the past year, we have done just
that.
We’ve passed legislation to lower the cost
of prescription drugs, combat climate change,
secure our elections, make sure our veterans
have the care that they need, and that our
children attend safe schools.
Impeachment was not our only goal.
This president left us no other choice.
After reading the facts, listening to the testi-
mony of witnesses, and seeing how this Presi-
dent put his own personal political interests
above the American people, I will vote to im-
peach Donald Trump.
This is not something I take pleasure in.
This is a solemn moment for our country.
This vote is about the safety of the Amer-
ican people and the future of our democracy.
I cannot, in good conscience, ignore his out-
right disregard for the rule of law, his contin-
ued obstruction of Congress, and the use of
his office for personal gain. President Trump’s
most recent abuse of power was the breaking
point.
For a sitting president of the United States
to actively seek the interference of a foreign
government in our election by withholding crit-
ical military aid is a violation of his oath of of-
fice.
President Trump has purposefully damaged
the integrity of our elections and put American
lives at risk.
The founders of this great country and the
authors of the Constitution created a system
of checks and balances so that no single
branch of government would become too pow-
erful and abuse that power.
They devised a mechanism for removing a
president from office should a person like
Donald Trump, use the office for their own
personal, unscrupulous reasons.
I came to my decision after reviewing the
mountain of evidence and the testimony of
several high-ranking White House officials who
have testified and confirmed his malfeasance.
I do not take my responsibility as Rep-
resentative for California’s 29th District lightly.
Serving the people of my district is one of the
greatest honors of my life.
It is my constitutional obligation to do what
is right for my district and for all of the Amer-
ican people.
Madam Speaker, President Trump remains
a threat to our democracy and by voting to im-
peach, I am fulfilling my constitutional duty
and living up to the oath I swore before the
American people.
f
HONORING SYLVIA ROSEN ON HER
100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. NYDIA M. VELÁZQUEZ
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor Sylvia Rosen, a New York City original
who turned 100 years old this week.
Born December 14, 1919 in Manhattan,
New York, Sylvia lived with her mother, sister
and three brothers. In 1928, at age nine, Syl-
via moved to Brooklyn where her family set-
tled at south 9th and Roehling.
Sylvia attended elementary school at P.S.
16 in Williamsburg. Later, she attended Sew-
ard Park high school. Having grown up with
three brothers, Sylvia was a tomboy and en-
joyed playing softball with friends and check-
ers and marbles with brothers and sisters.
After graduating high school, Sylvia at-
tended a trade school for sewing. In 1939,
Sylvia married her husband, Hyman, in a local
synagogue. They moved to Independence
Towers when they first opened in 1965. Al-
though her husband passed away in 1978,
Sylvia still resides in Independence Towers to
this day.
Sylvia’s best friends are Dina and Elsie.
They live nearby and the three celebrate their
birthdays together. She also has a cousin
named Sylvia. They were both named after
their grandma and her mother’s best friend.
Madam Speaker, as Ms. Sylvia turns 100, I
ask all my colleagues to join me in wishing her
all the best for a joyous and momentous
celebration.
f
RECOGNIZING MS. LISA
WILLENBERG
HON. J. FRENCH HILL
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize and congratulate Lisa
Willenberg for being selected as the new
Chancellor of the University of Arkansas Com-
munity College at Morrilton (UACCM).
The college was established in 1963 and
Ms. Willenberg serves as the college’s fourth
Chancellor and the first woman in this posi-
tion.
She earned her Bachelor of Business Ad-
ministration from the University of Central Ar-
kansas and Master of Education at the Univer-
sity of Arkansas.
Ms. Willenberg has served at Morrilton for
27 years, first as a general accountant and, in
2011, becoming Vice Chancellor for Finance
and Operations—handling the college’s fi-
nances, human resources, information tech-
nology and physical plant.
Under her leadership, the college has in-
creased its fiscal reserves, improved the col-
lege’s financial scoring and constructed new
campus facilities to benefit the students.
Congratulations to Chancellor Lisa
Willenberg on being selected for this pres-
tigious position, and I look forward to the
school’s success for years to come.
f
IMPEACHING DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, FOR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
SPEECH OF
HON. DWIGHT EVANS
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
Mr. EVANS. Madam Speaker, I want to talk
about why I am voting ‘‘Yes’’ on both articles
of impeachment against President Trump:
Impeachment is a solemn and historic task.
With the outrageous, ongoing conduct of
President Trump, impeachment is necessary
for upholding our oath of office and the Con-
stitution. Benjamin Franklin said after the Con-
stitutional Convention in Philadelphia that we
have ‘a republic, if you can keep it.’ House
Democrats intend to keep it.
This impeachment process, holding the
President accountable, is only possible be-
cause the House majority changed, but the
root cause of it all is the President’s own un-
constitutional, reckless behavior. He withheld
$391 million in congressionally approved, tax-
funded military aid from a free country,
Ukraine, that is trying to defend itself from a
dictatorship, Russia, and he did this for polit-
ical gain. His action appears to have cost
Ukrainian lives. He obstructed investigation
and oversight by Congress, which is a co-
equal, independent branch of government
under the Constitution. He appears to have no
shame or regret about any of this behavior,
which means he is likely to repeat it unless he
is held accountable.
No one is above the law in America—that is
the principle the House is voting to uphold.
Now the nation will be watching the Senate to
see if Senators will uphold their oath to do im-
partial justice.
f
IMPEACHING DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, FOR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
SPEECH OF
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, the United
States is based on a principle that our second
President, John Adams of Massachusetts, so
eloquently summed up long ago: we are a
‘government of laws, not of men.’
No one, absolutely no one, stands above
the law.
Over a century after President Adams ut-
tered those words, another Massachusetts
statesman, John F. Kennedy, delivered his fa-
mous ‘‘City on a Hill’’ speech before the Gen-
eral Court of Massachusetts prior to the start
of his administration in 1961. President Ken-
nedy powerfully proclaimed that ‘we must al-
ways consider that we shall be a city upon a
hill [and that] the eyes of all people are upon
us.’
He continued, explaining that:
For of those to whom much is given, much
is required. And when at some future date
the high court of history sits in judgment on
each one of us—recording whether in our
brief span of service we fulfilled our respon-
sibilities to the state—our success or failure,
in whatever office we may hold, will be
measured by the answers to four questions:
First, were we truly men of courage—with
the courage to stand up to one’s enemies—
and the courage to stand up, when necessary,
to one’s associates—the courage to resist
public pressure, as well as private greed?
Secondly, were we truly men of judgment—
with perceptive judgment of the future as
well as the past—of our own mistakes as well
as the mistakes of others—with enough wis-
dom to know that we did not know, and
enough candor to admit it?
Third, were we truly men of integrity—
men who never ran out on either the prin-
ciples in which they believed or the people
who believed in them—men who believed in
us—men whom neither financial gain nor po-
litical ambition could ever divert from the
fulfillment of our sacred trust?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.022 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1628 December 19, 2019
Finally, were we truly men of dedication—
with an honor mortgaged to no single indi-
vidual or group, and compromised by no pri-
vate obligation or aim, but devoted solely to
serving the public good and the national in-
terest.
Courage—judgment—integrity—dedica-
tion—these are the historic qualities of the
Bay Colony and the Bay State—the qualities
which this state has consistently sent to this
chamber on Beacon Hill here in Boston and
to Capitol Hill back in Washington.
Madam Speaker, we are called to serve in
this great country with courage, judgement, in-
tegrity, and dedication. And when those
among us—those in the highest positions of
public trust—willingly corrupt those values for
personal benefit, it is incumbent upon us to
act, however reluctantly.
I believe that it has become undeniably
clear that the President of the United States,
Donald J. Trump, has engaged in a pattern of
behavior designed to extract personal and po-
litical benefit from the Office of the President.
In doing so, President Trump irreparably vio-
lated his oath to preserve—to protect—and to
defend—the Constitution of the United States
of America. It is with a heavy heart, and a
deep reverence to that same oath that I refuse
to abandon mine.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 50TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF SACRAMENTO
STATE’S EDUCATION OPPOR-
TUNITY PROGRAM
HON. DORIS O. MATSUI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in honor of the 50th Anniversary of the Edu-
cation Opportunity Program
(EOP) at Sacramento State. I ask my col-
leagues to join me in recognizing the service
that Sacramento State’s Education Oppor-
tunity Program provides to our community.
Sacramento State’s EOP has graduated
thousands of students, supporting the success
of first-generation and low-income scholars
from educationally-disadvantaged and histori-
cally-underrepresented communities. Sac-
ramento State was one of the original Cali-
fornia State University (CSU) campuses to
embrace an Education Opportunity Program.
Under the leadership of Dr. Edwin
Klingelhofer, the program began with a suc-
cessful pilot for 36 students and has expanded
to now serve over 1,500 students each year.
Soon after the program began at Sacramento
State, the California Legislature passed Sen-
ate Bill 1072, which established similar pro-
grams at all CSU campuses. Since then, Sac-
ramento State’s EOP has thrived under the
leadership of Dr. Marcellene Watson-Derbigny
and the exceptional staff of the Student Aca-
demic Success and Educational Equity Pro-
grams office. Their dedicated service has
paved the way for equity at Sacramento State
and does not go unrecognized.
EOP was Sacramento State’s first equity
program. It provides admissions assistance, a
special orientation to university life, the Sum-
mer Bridge Academy, academic advising, per-
sonal counseling, tutoring, financial assist-
ance, and various other programs. EOP is
vital in ensuring the access, retention, and
graduation achievements of underserved stu-
dent populations. EOP is a major pathway for
first-generation and low-income college stu-
dents to succeed through its provision of a
quality educational experience at Sacramento
State. I wish the university’s faculty, staff, stu-
dents, and alumni success as they work to
help individuals earn a college degree and ful-
fill their college dreams.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor of the
50th Anniversary of the Education Opportunity
Program at Sacramento State. As Sacramento
State and the wider community elebrate, I ask
my colleagues to join me in paying tribute to
the accomplishments of Sacramento State’s
Education Opportunity Program’s staff and
students, as they have paved the way for the
success and representation of historically-un-
derserved students.
f
INTRODUCTION OF JONES ACT
MODERNIZATION BILLS
HON. ED CASE
OF HAWAII
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, today I intro-
duce three bills to end a century of monopo-
listic closed market domestic cargo shipping to
and from my isolated home state of Hawai’i as
well as the other island and separated jurisdic-
tions of our country not part of the continental
United States. In doing so, we will break the
stranglehold on the peoples and economies of
these exposed communities and their resulting
sky-high costs of living which results from just
a few domestic shipping companies controlling
the lifeline of commerce upon which we abso-
lutely depend.
These bills all amend the Merchant Marine
Act of 1920, also known as the Jones Act.
That federal law mandates that all cargo ship-
ping between U.S. ports occur exclusively on
U.S., not foreign, flagged vessels. Additionally,
the law requires that these vessels are built in
the U.S. and owned and crewed by U.S. citi-
zens.
The Jones Act was enacted in a protec-
tionist era under the guise of preserving a
strong national merchant marine. But today it
is just an anachronism: most of the world’s
shipping is by way of an international mer-
chant marine functioning in an open, competi-
tive market. And those few U.S. flag cargo
lines that remain have maneuvered the Jones
Act to develop virtual monopolies over domes-
tic cargo shipping to, from and within our most
isolated and exposed locales—our island and
offshore states and territories—that have no
alternative modes of transportation such as
trucking or rail.
My Hawai’i is a classic example. Located al-
most 2,500 miles off the West Coast, we im-
port well over 90 percent of our life necessities
by ocean cargo. There are plenty of inter-
national cargo lines who could and would
compete for a share of that market. Yet only
two U.S. flag domestic cargo lines—Matson
Navigation and Pasha Hawai’i—operate a vir-
tual duopoly over our lifeline.
While they are nominally subject to federal
regulation, the fact of the matter is that cargo
prices have gone in only one direction—up,
fast and repeatedly, despite a surplus of inter-
national shipping—and it is indisputable that
there is no downward market pressure which
would otherwise result from meaningful com-
petition. These accelerating cargo prices are
not absorbed by the shipping lines, but passed
through all the way down the chain, to the
transporters, wholesalers, retailers, small busi-
nesses, mom-n-pops and ultimately con-
sumers, of all of the elementals of life, from
food to medical supplies, clothes, housing and
virtually all other goods. The result is a crip-
pling drag on an already-challenged economy
and the very quality of life in Hawai’i.
The broadest, deepest effects of the Jones
Act on Hawai’i result from its impact on west-
bound imports from the continental United
States to Hawai’i. But Hawai’i is an export lo-
cation as well, in key products such as agri-
culture and livestock. Here the Jones Act also
effectively stifles meaningful competition in
getting those products to their primary markets
on the U.S. Mainland. Because the producers
of these products and all that rely for their own
livelihood on their successful export have to
eat inflated shipping costs, these export indus-
tries, which any economist knows are the ulti-
mate key to any economy’s prosperity, are
also crippled.
Let’s take a concrete example: Hawaii’s
once-prosperous ranching/cattle industry,
which is so key to the economic health and
the very lifestyle of so much of areas like the
rural Big Island, where I was born and raised.
That industry depends on getting its product,
young cattle, to West Coast pens and trans-
portation hubs in a cost-efficient manner.
There are foreign cargo carriers that spe-
cialize, through custom cattle ships and overall
sensitivity and adjustment to rancher time-
tables and needs, in such transport, but the
Jones Act outright excludes them from the Ha-
wai’i-Mainland market. As a result, Hawaii’s
ranchers are reduced to two crippling, cost
magnifying options.
The first is to ship their cargo by foreign car-
riers to Canada, where they have to go
through a myriad of bureaucratic, cost-magni-
fying gyrations to get their product eventually
to their U.S. markets. The second is to beg for
the goodwill of the domestic carriers, to whom
this is simply a hindrance rather than a major
commitment, to ship directly to the West
Coast.
And it shows: most of the cattle are first
shipped from Hawaii’s Neighbor Islands,
where the bulk of the cattle industry is located,
to O’ahu, in small ‘‘cow-tainers,’’ where they
sit for days in Honolulu Harbor awaiting the re-
turn to the Mainland of one of the massive
cargo ships designed and utilized for quite an-
other purpose. The result (besides associated
higher costs) is in-harbor cattle waste disposal
challenges, higher in-transit cattle mortality
and lower-weight cattle delivery to market.
That’s what happens when you try to squeeze
a square peg into a round hole.
More broadly, there is much evidence about
the direct impact of the Jones Act on shipping
prices to noncontiguous areas. At a basic
level, the everyday goods that we rely on in
Hawai’i cost much more than on the Mainland,
a difference which largely cannot be attributed
to anything other than shipping costs. Yester-
day, there was a 30 percent difference in the
price of a gallon of milk at Safeway grocery
stores in Honolulu and Long Beach, California.
My constituents pay $6.39 for a gallon of
whole milk and those in Long Beach, one of
the major ports where Hawaii’s good come
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.026 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1629
December 19, 2019
from, pay $4.49. Really, shipping that gallon of
milk to Hawai’i from California is 30 percent of
the total cost of the product in Hawai’i?
In 2012, the Federal Reserve Bank ofNew
York studied Puerto Rico’s economy and
found that ‘‘the high cost of shipping is a sub-
stantial burden on the Island’s productivity.’’
The New York Fed found that, ‘‘[i]t costs an
estimated $3,063 to ship a twenty-foot con-
tainer of household and commercial goods
from the East Coast of the United States to
Puerto Rico; the same shipment costs $1,504
to nearby Santo Domingo (Dominican Repub-
lic) and $1,687 to Kingston (Jamaica)—des-
tinations that are not subject to Jones Act re-
strictions.’’ There is only one reason why costs
are double to ship from the continental United
States to a domestic port in Puerto Rico as
compared to foreign ports in the Dominican
Republic and Jamaica: there is international
competition on the latter routes, none on the
domestic route and the shipping companies
take full advantage of that lack of competition.
The three bills I introduce today say:
enough is enough. If you, the continental U.S.,
wants to continue the Jones Act as to shipping
between your locations, that’s your business.
But don’t penalize us island and other non-
contiguous locations by throwing us to the mo-
nopoly wolves you’ve created.
The first bill, the Noncontiguous Shipping
Relief Act, exempts all noncontiguous U.S. lo-
cations, including Hawai’i, from the Jones Act.
The second, the Noncontiguous Shipping Rea-
sonable Rate Act, benchmarks the definition of
a ‘‘reasonable rate’’ that Jones Act shipping
can charge to within ten percent of analogous
international shipping rates. And the third, the
Noncontiguous Shipping Competition Act, pre-
vents monopolies or duopolies in noncontig-
uous Jones Act shipping. Essentially, the bills
are intended to lay out options for providing
relief for our U.S. noncontiguous areas. We
can resolve the issue in many ways, but we
must change the status quo which has had
such a deep, broad and negative impact on
my state and the other jurisdictions beholden
to the Jones Act.
The Noncontiguous Shipping Relief Act
would allow the noncontiguous jurisdictions to
be serviced by non-Jones Act vessels and in-
crease, or in some cases create any, competi-
tion in these critical shipping lanes. Again, this
is a small portion of the total national Jones
Act shipping where it is particularly destructive
in application.
Let me address directly the argument of-
fered up by the domestic shippers in defense
of the Jones Act: that it contains important
labor and environmental protections that would
be lost upon repeal. My bill would retain these
important protections. Specifically, it provides
that all foreign shippers operating under the
bill’s Jones Act exemptions must comply with
the same labor, environmental, tax, docu-
mentation, U.S. locus and other laws as are
applicable to non-U.S. flag ships and shippers
transiting U.S. waters today.
The Noncontiguous Shipping Reasonable
Rate Act would define a ‘‘reasonable rate’’ for
the noncontiguous domestic ocean trade as
no more than ten percent above the rate set
by a comparable international rate recognized
by the Federal Maritime Commission. Cur-
rently, the Surface Transportation Board tech-
nically has the authority to adjudicate and set
precedent on what a ‘‘reasonable rate’’ is for
Jones Act shipping, but it has almost never
been used and never to a clear conclusion on
what is a reasonable rate. My bill would define
reasonable to remove uncertainty. Current
Jones Act shipping rates vary widely and there
is no central compilation of these rates. The
ten percent benchmark would allow for vari-
ance but also ensure that Americans in our
noncontiguous areas are not forced to pay ex-
orbitant rates way above shipping rates which
would otherwise be provided through inter-
national competition were the Jones Act not
applicable.
The Noncontiguous Shipping Competition
Act would exempt shipping routes to non-
contiguous jurisdictions from the Jones Act re-
quirements if a monopoly or duopoly exists on
those routes. The Jones Act has resulted in
the blossoming of monopolies and duopolies
in our noncontiguous jurisdictions. To ensure
that these communities, which are the most
reliant in the country on shipping to receive
necessities, are not held hostage to these
dominant companies, my bill would give Jones
Act exemptions to routes that are not serviced
by at least three companies with separate
ownership. In short, if a domestic route is in
fact in a competitive environment, the Jones
Act is less of a problem, but if there is no
competition, then the route should be opened
up to international competition by rescinding
the Jones Act.
Madam Speaker, these long-overdue bills
are of the utmost importance to the localities
which have long borne the unfair brunt of the
Jones Act. It is often difficult to pierce the veil
of longstanding custom and understanding to
see the real negative impacts of a law and
what should instead be. It is even more dif-
ficult to change a law which provides a feder-
ally-created and endorsed monopoly under
which no competition exists to hold down
prices. Yet clearly the time for these measures
is overdue. I urge their passage.
f
CELEBRATION OF NEW GARDEN
ENTRANCE, GARDEN ENTRY PA-
VILION, & CIRCLE
HON. WILLIAM R. TIMMONS, IV
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. TIMMONS. Madam Speaker, the Hatch-
er Garden and Woodland Preserve in my dis-
trict recently celebrated the opening of its new
garden entrance, entry pavilion, and circle.
The Hatcher Garden and Woodland Preserve
originated as the vision of its namesakes, Har-
old and Josephine Hatcher. The Hatcher’s
shared a passion for gardening and education.
The family gradually expanded beyond their
initial small wooded residential lot to ten acres,
adding walking paths and trees to rehabilitate
the land and reclaim eroded cotton fields.
Their zeal inspired many volunteers to join
their efforts to develop a gift to the commu-
nity—a shared garden and woodland preserve
for relaxation and information. Their life project
was donated to the Spartanburg County Foun-
dation in 1987 to ensure its continuance.
Today, the Hatcher Garden and Woodland
Preserve exceeds twelve acres. It is open to
the public and free of charge to all visitors, in
line with the Hatcher’s vision. Outdoor edu-
cation programs are offered for elementary
school children and opportunities are afforded
to more than 60,000 visitors to experience in-
spiration, enjoyment, and education through
nature.
This December, a two-year project was
completed at the Garden. The new facilities
will enhance the experiences and opportuni-
ties enjoyed by visitors of all ages, and will
continue to be a source of knowledge and in-
formation to the community. I am grateful for
the Garden’s continued efforts in my district
and I look forward to their continued success.
f
RECOGNIZING THE INAUGURATION
OF THE PRINCIPAL AND SECOND
CHIEF OF THE ALABAMA-
COUSHATTA TRIBE OF TEXAS
HON. BRIAN BABIN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the inauguration of Herbert John-
son, Sr. and Donnis Battise as Principal Chief
and Second Chief, respectively, of the Ala-
bama-Coushatta Tribe of Texas on January 1,
2020.
Herbert Johnson, Sr., a member of the Bea-
ver Clan, served two terms on the Alabama-
Coushatta Tribe Council, and held the position
of Tribal Security Director for 21 years until his
retirement in 2012. Mr. Johnson was vibrantly
active in his community, serving on the Tribe’s
volunteer fire department and as the manager
of the Tribal softball and basketball leagues
for numerous years. He attended Jacksonville
College, and later earned certification from Kil-
gore College and the Angelina Criminal Jus-
tice Center as an East Texas Police Academy
reserve officer. Mr. Johnson is a member of
the Indian Presbyterian Church, and has
served nearly half a century on the Big Sandy
Independent School District Board of Trustees.
In all his endeavors, he enjoys the love and
support of his wife, Deloris, and he takes great
pride in their five children: Davie, Delbert,
Retha, Herbert Jr., and Heather, and their five
grandchildren: Jackson, Camille, Raegan,
Aaliyah, and Stormi.
Donnis Battise, a member of the Bear Clan,
has served two terms on the Tribal Council
and has been a member of the Tribe’s volun-
teer fire department. During the Vietnam War,
Mr. Battise served in the U.S. Army and is ac-
tive today with the Tribal Veterans Associa-
tion. Mr. Battise was employed in the lumber
and paper industries for 33 years, and more
recently retired from his position as a gaming
attendant at Naskila Gaming. As a fervent fol-
lower of the Indian Presbyterian Church,
Donnis serves both as an ordained elder and
deacon of the church. He and his wife, Carol,
are the guardians of Lilly Ann Alec.
Herbert Johnson, Sr. and Donnis Battise
have earned the high esteem of Tribal mem-
bers through their many years of outstanding
service, and it is indeed a pleasure to honor
them on this special occasion.
Madam Speaker, I congratulate Herbert
Johnson, Sr. and Donnis Battise on their inau-
guration as Principal Chief and Second Chief
of the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe and I ask that
they may be extended sincere best wishes for
the future.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.028 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1630 December 19, 2019
HONORING THE 80TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF KEYSTONE COMMUNITY
SERVICES
HON. BETTY McCOLLUM
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Keystone Community Serv-
ices’ 80th anniversary. For 80 years, this non-
profit organization has provided critical pro-
grams and services that empower youth, fami-
lies, and seniors in Saint Paul and Ramsey
County, Minnesota.
Founded in 1939 as Saint Paul Community
Services, a small, neighborhood community
center, it provided youth programming and
services to its neighbors. Programs included
athletics, Color Guard, hobby clubs, and pre-
school-age programming. In 1941, volunteers
contributed 60 hours per week to assist a total
of 700 individuals. Today, more than 340
youth participate in Keystone programs that
develop and sharpen their academic, social,
and early employment skills, helping young
people become successful adults.
In 1971, Keystone expanded to provide food
shelf services to hungry neighbors. Last year,
Keystone distributed 2.3 million pounds of
quality, healthy food to neighbors in need.
Today, more than 26,000 people each year
depend on Keystone’s food shelf services.
Keystone’s Programming for Active Seniors
started in 1972, which included education, fit-
ness classes, and social activities for low-in-
come older adults. Today, more than 1500
older adults participate in a variety of senior
programs at Keystone’s two community cen-
ters in Saint Paul. Additionally, Keystone’s
Meals on Wheels Program provides seniors
and adults with disabilities with nutritious
meals and keeps them living in their homes as
long as possible.
Keystone is aptly named for the essential
wedge-shaped stone of an arch that locks the
other pieces in place. Programs that meet
basic needs, provide crisis support, build com-
munication, and help navigate and coordinate
services are the keystone of its work. Key-
stone Community Services has grown to serve
over 30,000 people annually, in large part due
to volunteers who donate 700 hours each
week.
Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring
the 80th anniversary of Keystone Community
Services strengthening Saint Paul and
Ramsey County, Minnesota communities.
f
RECOGNIZING MAYOR JEFF
TILTON FOR HIS 8 YEARS OF
SERVICE AND LIFETIME OF
DEDICATION OF THE ZANES-
VILLE COMMUNITY
HON. TROY BALDERSON
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. BALDERSON. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Mayor Jeff Tilton, for his
dedication to Zanesville, Ohio and the sur-
rounding area.
Mayor Tilton’s career, now spanning more
than four decades, exemplifies a selfless com-
mitment to public service. After dedicating 39
years to Burnham Foundry, Jeff served three
plus terms as Zanesville Councilman. Jeff was
then sworn in as Mayor in 2011. Jeff’s service
stretches far past his duties as Mayor as he
is also a member of multiple local organiza-
tions, such as the Genesis Advisory Board,
the Advisory Board of the Oaks at Bethesda
and Northpoint, the Zanesville Sertoma Club,
and the Salvation Army Board, just to name a
few.
As a holder of public office, Mayor Tilton
has continually gone above and beyond his
call of duty. Jeff can be credited for improving
broadband access, infrastructure, and down-
town development in Zanesville. Outside of
local government, Jeff’s dedication has mani-
fested itself in countless ways over the years,
including in his volunteer work around Zanes-
ville. Jeff is an active volunteer with Miracle on
Main Street, Souper Bowl Sunday and the Y-
Bridge Arts Festival. Many different groups
and organizations throughout Muskingum
County have benefited from Jeff’s time and
assistance.
Admired and respected by the people that
have had the chance to work alongside Jeff,
it is evident he has left a positive impact on
Zanesville and the individuals that make up
the community. As family, friends, and Zanes-
ville gather to recognize Jeff’s outstanding ca-
reer, I salute him for his ongoing commitment
to service above self. Mayor Tilton can take
great pride in all he has accomplished and in
the positive impact that his work has—and will
continue to—have.
I thank Jeff for his devotion to bettering
Zanesville, Ohio and in turn, I honor him for
his incredible record of achievement.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF FRED
MAYER
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in memory of Fred Mayer, who passed
away on December 10, 2019, at the age of 86
after a lifetime of exemplary public service to
his community.
Fred Mayer was born in Kansas City to
Anna Landie Mayer and Maximillian Philip
Mayer. His father died when he was just six
months old and his mother reluctantly placed
Fred and his older sister in Jewish orphan-
ages in Kansas City and Denver while trying
to secure employment to support the family.
Mr. Mayer would later credit his time in the
Jewish orphanages with helping to develop his
great sense of justice. He would go on to
champion causes that served the greater com-
munity and would always put others above
himself. When he was eight, the family re-
united and moved to San Francisco. At the
age of 12, Mr. Mayer started working at local
pharmacies and later went on to graduate
from Lowell High School, the University of
California, Berkeley, and in 1954, the phar-
macy school at University of California San
Francisco. After graduating with his pharmacy
degree, Mr. Mayer served in the United States
Army where he ran a mobile surgical unit in
Germany.
Following his service in the Army, Mr. Mayer
met and married Jacqueline Levy Mayer in
1958, and a year later, they settled in San
Rafael, CA. In 1963, Mr. Mayer bought
Sausalito Pharmacy and operated it for 33
years. Mr. Mayer used his pharmacy as a
place to educate the community on various
public health issues including the dangers of
smoking and the need for safe sex education.
In the 1970s, Mr. Mayer started a methadone
program from within the pharmacy, and after a
close friend of his died of cancer, the phar-
macy became one of the first drugstores in the
nation to stop the sale of tobacco. In 1974,
Mr. Mayer went back to school at the Univer-
sity of California, Berkeley, to obtain a mas-
ter’s degree. Soon after, he founded a non-
profit organization, Pharmacy Planning Service
Inc., where he continued to deliver much
needed community education on public health.
Known to all around him as larger-than-life,
Mr. Mayer worked well into his later years.
Most recently, he worked to educate medical
cannabis users about interactions with other
medications that might be harmful. He was
also well known for his Great American
Smokeout campaigns, bolstering National
Condom Week, and his crusade to put child
safety caps on prescription medications.
Mr. Mayer was a well-respected community
leader who will be remembered for his domi-
nant spirit and commitment to public service.
He is survived by his daughter Heidi and his
sons David and Charles. While he will be
greatly missed, Mr. Mayer’s legacy will live on
through the indelible positive impact he had on
his many friends and family and the commu-
nity at large.
f
RECOGNIZING MR. ELWYN
RAYMER FOR HIS CONTRIBU-
TIONS TO THE MUSIC INDUSTRY
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize President and CEO
of the Church Music Publishers Association’s
(CMPA) Action Fund, Mr. Elwyn Raymer, for
his 50-year career dedicated to bettering the
music publishing industry.
In 1966, Raymer moved to Music City and
became Music Editor for Broadman Records
and Music at the Baptist Sunday School
Board, currently known as Lifeway. During his
time as Music Editor, he produced and pub-
lished the musical Celebrate Life. This musical
touched the lives of millions nationwide and
sold more than 600,000 copies.
As Executive Vice President of Triune Music
and Triangle Records and President of Lorenz
Creative Services, Raymer focused on his ad-
vocacy for songwriters, artists, and publishers.
In 1990, Raymer joined Bertelsmann Music
Group (BMG) where he helped establish the
group’s entry and success into Contemporary
Christian Music. During his tenure at BMG, he
became a leader for his ability to carry out ac-
quisitions and attract talented musicians and
songwriters. While at BMG, Raymer redefined
and expanded the group’s scope by over-
seeing the purchase of Reunion Records and
Music and the acquisition of half of the Spar-
row Music catalogues. As a direct result, BMG
went on to unleash a new era in the groups
chapter of music making with songs such as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.031 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1631
December 19, 2019
Change the World, which was performed by
Eric Clapton and won the Grammy Award for
‘‘Song of the Year’’ in 1996.
In 2001, Raymer retired from BMG after
spending over 20 years leading the group’s
development, but he never stopped fighting for
artists, songwriters, and publishers. After retir-
ing from BMG, Raymer became President and
CEO of the Church Music Publishers Associa-
tion’s (CMPA) Action Fund, where he worked
to protect the intellectual property rights of
songwriters and publishers.
Throughout his five decades of work in the
music industry, Raymer has received numer-
ous awards for his work, including The Arnold
Broida Award for Copyright Advocacy, CMPA
Founders Award, the NSAI President’s Award,
and countless other recognitions from ASCAP,
BMI, Sparrow Records, BMG, and the CMPA.
It is my honor to congratulate Raymer on
his retirement and to thank him for being a
tireless advocate for songwriters and pub-
lishers. I wish him and his wife, Linda, all the
best as they enter this new season of life.
f
RETROACTIVE ADJUSTMENTS FOR
FORMER MEMBER’S MEMBERS
REPRESENTATIONAL ALLOW-
ANCE
HON. ZOE LOFGREN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, at the rec-
ommendation of the Chief Administrative Offi-
cer, I am approving retroactive adjustments for
former member Peter Roskam’s Members
Representational Allowance in the amount of
$8,379.68 to address shortfalls in the Legisla-
tive Year 2018 due to administrative errors.
f
IMPEACHING DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, FOR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, last
Friday, the 13th of December, the Judiciary
Committee voted Articles of Impeachment
against Donald John Trump, the 45th and cur-
rent President of the United States and the
House of Representatives debated and will
vote on those articles of impeachment on De-
cember 18, 2019.
The Judiciary Committee considered a volu-
minous amount of powerful, probative, and
compelling evidence demonstrating that the
President violated his oath of office, dis-
regarded the nation’s security, endeavored to
corrupt the 2020 presidential election, and
then launched a cover-up to prevent Congress
from learning the full extent of his trans-
gressions and acting to prevent their recur-
rence.
Separately, I will discuss and evaluate in
detail the evidence that supports the articles of
impeachment, as well the evidence offered in
defense of the President’s conduct, but I rise
today for the limited purpose of explaining
briefly the reasons why the conduct described
in the resolution of impeachment is of the ut-
most seriousness.
On December 3, 2019, in the first of my
Notes on Impeachment, I discussed and ex-
plained the enduring principles that I believe
should guide consideration of any articles of
impeachment.
In this, the second part of my Notes on Im-
peachment, I will discuss why obstruction of
the Congress, particularly the House of Rep-
resentatives when it is exercising the powers
vested in it exclusively by the Constitution in
Article 1, Section 2, clause 5, is one of the
grave transgressions that can be committed in
this democratic republic.
In February 2014, the military of the Russia
Federation, without merit or cause, invaded
the eastern part of the free and independent
country of Ukraine, including the Donbass re-
gion and the Crimean Peninsula.
The United States, a strategic ally of
Ukraine, reacted swiftly to the Russian inva-
sion, condemning the military action in strong
and bipartisan fashion, and providing military,
humanitarian, and non-military financial assist-
ance to the determined but beleaguered na-
tion of Ukraine, which since 2014 has totaled
approximately $1.5 billion.
In September 2019, members of the House
of Representatives were alerted to a complaint
filed by a whistleblower within the Intelligence
Community alleging that on a July 25, 2019,
call with the President of Ukraine, the current
President of the United States sought to with-
hold $391 million in foreign military aid to
Ukraine unless and until it announced publicly
that it was currently conducting corruption in-
vestigations against the American president’s
perceived chief election rival.
On September 24, 2019, the Speaker of the
House announced that the House of Rep-
resentatives would commence an impeach-
ment inquiry pursuant to its constitutional au-
thority under article I, section 2, clause 5 to
determine whether in connection with the July
25, 2019 telephone conversation with the
President of Ukraine, the President of the
United States has engaged in conduct consti-
tuting ‘‘Treason, Bribery, or other High Crimes
or Misdemeanors’’ as specified in article II,
section 4.
On September 25, 2019, the White House
released a Memorandum of Conversation in
which the July 25, 2019 telephone conversa-
tion between the presidents of the United
States and of Ukraine was memorialized and
which corroborated in all material respects the
allegations of the whistle blower.
The Memorandum of Conversation released
by the White House confirms that the Presi-
dent of the United States put his personal in-
terests over the interests of the nation, en-
gaged in behavior that undermines the integ-
rity of American elections, demeans the dignity
of the office of the President of the United
States, and jeopardizes the security of the
United States.
Rather than denying the material allegations
raised or expressing any regret, contrition, or
apology for the serious breach of conduct, a
week later, on October 3, 2019, the President
of the United States went before national tele-
vision cameras and confirmed that he desired
for President Zelensky’s Government of
Ukraine to launch the investigations he re-
quested, stating:
‘‘If they were honest about it, they would
start a major investigation into the Bidens . . .
Likewise, China should start an investigation
into the Bidens, because what happened in
China is just about as bad as what happened
with Ukraine.’’
On October 22, 2019, bemoaning his fate,
but not regretting his conduct, the President of
the United States tweeted that ‘‘All Repub-
licans must remember what they are wit-
nessing here—a lynching,’’ thus falsely draw-
ing a moral equivalence between the exercise
of the impeachment power expressly and sole-
ly conferred on the House of Representatives
by the Constitution and lynching, the most hei-
nous act of domestic terrorism and symbolic of
one of the darkest and most shameful periods
in America’s past.
From the moment Speaker Pelosi an-
nounced the House would commence inves-
tigation of the President’s conduct, the Presi-
dent responded by initiating and orchestrating
unprecedented defiance of Congress and im-
peding its ability to learn the facts and impose
accountability by disregarding subpoenas, re-
fusing all requests for the production of docu-
ments, directing his political appointees and
other Executive Branch employees from testi-
fying before or cooperating with Congress,
and resorting to dilatory litigation in the pursuit
of pursuing frivolous and specious claims,
such as Article II empowers the President can
do whatever he wants or that he is absolutely
immune from congressional investigation.
Madam Speaker, I am reminded that 21
years ago I served on the Judiciary Committee
during the impeachment of a president, as did
one of my predecessors, the late Barbara Jor-
dan, who reminded the nation that our country
depends on us to be big in the biggest mo-
ments.
This generational passing of the torch is not
unique but rather an indelible feature of the
American Experience passed down to us from
the Framers who met in Philadelphia 232
years ago to craft a Constitution forming a
more perfect union, establishing justice, ensur-
ing domestic tranquility, providing for the com-
mon defense, promoting the general welfare,
and securing the blessing of liberty to them
and their posterity.
More than two centuries ago, in 1776, this
country was founded on the basis of a bed-
rock belief in the revolutionary ideas that all
men are created equal and are endowed with
the inalienable right to life, liberty, and prop-
erty; are entitled to live free of arbitrary rule;
and most important, are endowed with the
right to govern themselves.
Thomas Jefferson wrote in the Declaration
of Independence that ‘‘all Experience has
sh[o]wn that Mankind are more disposed to
suffer, while Evils are sufferable, than to right
themselves by taking’’ immediate action
against their oppressors.
But, Jefferson continued, ‘‘when a long
Train of Abuses and Usurpations, pursuing in-
variably the same Object, evinces a Design to
reduce them under absolute despotism, it is
their right, it is there duty’’ to take immediate
action to repel the danger.
Madam Speaker, the Framers had first-hand
experience with the types of abuses and
usurpations committed by political leaders who
ruled them but were not accountable to them
and detailed many of those wrongs in the
Declaration of Independence.
The Framers understood and declared to
the world that democratic governors derived
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.034 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1632 December 19, 2019
their powers from the knowing and voluntary
consent of the governed as expressed in free,
fair, and unfettered elections unmarred by the
influence or sabotage of any foreign country or
entity not a member of the political community.
The Framers understood that if elections are
influenced by foreign actors, then voters are
reduced from the great role of citizens to mere
subjects, and government for and by the peo-
ple is a sham.
The most important feature of a democracy
is that it is the voters who alone can confer
the legitimate consent and authorization nec-
essary to govern upon the governors who are
then duty-bound to represent the voters’ inter-
ests, and only their interests.
Madam Speaker, the fundamental demo-
cratic compact between the governed and the
governors is that the latter’s authority and con-
tinuance in office comes exclusively from the
governed and allegiance is owed exclusively
to the governed.
This agreement can only be reached
through free and fair elections, a breach of
which threatens the vitality and viability of the
social contract upon which democratic self-rule
of, by, and for the people depends.
Based on their personal experiences, the
Framers understood the importance of a presi-
dent’s allegiance being always and only to the
nation.
President Lincoln called the United States
the ‘‘last best hope of man on earth’’ and stat-
ed at Gettysburg the importance of finishing
the work we are in to ensure that ‘‘government
of the people, for the people, by the people
does not perish from the earth.’’
The first of the two serious allegations be-
fore us is that President Donald John Trump
concocted and masterminded a scheme to co-
erce President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine
to conspire with him to sabotage an American
election by announcing an investigation into
false charges against his perceived chief polit-
ical rival so that he could retain his office and
continue to abuse his power.
This is without doubt the most serious trans-
gression that can be committed by a President
who, as Lincoln said, has taken an oath ‘‘reg-
istered in Heaven’’ to preserve, protect, and
defend the Constitution of the United States.
The second charge leveled against the
President in the article of impeachment is that
once the Congress and people of the United
States learned of his perfidious scheme, the
President responded by orchestrating another
campaign to obstruct the ability of the House
of Representatives to learn the full depth of
the betrayal of his oath and his office by refus-
ing to provide required information or to make
witnesses available.
Instead, the President reverted to his prior
habit and practice of ignoring subpoenas, as-
serting specious privileges, intimidating wit-
nesses, hiding evidence, suborning perjury,
questioning the loyalty of dedicated career
professionals, and pursuing frivolous litigation
in the courts.
The alleged misconduct of President Trump
is a trifecta in America history because it in-
volves the commission of the three serious of-
fenses against the system most feared by the
Framers.
First, President Trump violated his oath of
office by placing his personal and political in-
terest above by the national interest by
scheming to get Ukraine to investigate a po-
tential election opponent.
Second, President Trump betrayed the na-
tional interest by withholding vital, congres-
sionally appropriated security assistance to a
beleaguered and besieged ally facing armed
aggression from Russia, America’s implacable
foe.
Third, the essential purpose of the scheme
concocted by President Trump was to enlist a
foreign country to help him fix the 2020 presi-
dential election in his favor, the very type of
interference most feared by the Framers.
If American elections are not free, fair, and
uninfluenced by foreign actors, then the de-
mocracy is extinguished and citizens are re-
duced to subjects ruled by an authority de-
pendent not on the consent of the governed,
but on the assistance and beneficence of un-
accountable foreign actors.
Such a state of affairs inevitably leads to ac-
tions taken by the ruler that are not in the in-
terests of the nation, like dishonoring treaty
agreements, abandoning allies, impugning the
independent judiciary and the free press, dis-
regarding fundamental rights and liberties of
the people, abrogating civic norms and virtues,
pursuing acts of personal enrichment, and cur-
rying favor with foreign despots and authoritar-
ians.
Although President Lincoln said in his First
Inaugural Address that ‘‘while the people re-
tain their virtue and vigilance no Administration
by any extreme of wickedness or folly can
very seriously injure the Government in the
short space of four years,’’ the Framers antici-
pated that the day may come when the ac-
tions of a Chief Magistrate would constitute a
clear and present danger to the security and
survival of the Republic.
So, to protect the republic, the Framers
equipped the representatives chosen directly
by the people with the necessary means of
protecting their liberty by wisely including in
the supreme law of the land, the Constitution
of the United States, Article I, Section 2,
Clause 5, which vests the sole power of im-
peachment in the House of Representatives.
Madam Speaker, it is no accident or coinci-
dence that the Framers established Congress
first in the Constitution as Article I.
This is because unlike a monarchy or autoc-
racy where the ‘‘King is Law,’’ in a democratic
republic, the ‘‘Law is King,’’ and no man is
above the law.
In addition to making the legislative branch
the preeminent but co-equal branch, the Fram-
ers established the House of Representatives
as the first of the two branches of the Con-
gress.
Members of the House are directly elected
by citizen voters and unlike the Senate, no
person can be appointed to the House; all
Members of the House must be elected.
Until the 17th Amendment was ratified in
1913, Senators were appointed by the State
Legislature and even today a Senate vacancy
can be filled by gubernatorial appointment.
Presidents, of course, are selected by elec-
tors chosen by voters.
This explains why the Framers understood
the House would enjoy a ‘‘natural superiority’’
over the Senate and other branches of gov-
ernment.
Madam Speaker, in a democracy the Peo-
ple are the ultimate repository of political
power and authority and the Framers created
the House of Representatives to be the direct
representative of the People.
This is why the most powerful of all govern-
mental prerogatives, the Power of the Purse,
is vested solely in the House of Representa-
tives by the Constitution which provides in Ar-
ticle I, Section 7 that ‘‘[A]ll bills for the raising
of revenue shall originate in the House of
Representatives.’’
Madam Speaker, the Preamble explains that
the reason ‘‘We, The People of the United
States,’’ established the Constitution was to
create a more perfect union where justice
reigned and the law protected everyone,
where the general welfare of the community
was a paramount objective and liberty was se-
cured for everyone, now and for the genera-
tions to come.
Our form of government was created to se-
cure the self-evident and inalienable right of
The People to live free of arbitrary rule or des-
potism or tyranny.
And that is why the Constitution necessarily
includes a provision to remove from office any
civil officer, including the President and Vice
President, whose conduct and actions pose a
clear and present threat to the system created
by the People to secure their happiness.
The purpose of the Impeachment Clause is
to protect The People, not punish the person
and that is why the Framers vested the sole
power of impeachment in the institutional em-
bodiment of The People, the House of Rep-
resentatives.
And that is why a refusal to cooperate or
provide information requested by the House of
Representatives in furtherance of its impeach-
ment power is different in degree and kind
from other inter-branch policy disputes.
When the Chief Executive undertakes a
wide-spread, full-scale, across the board cam-
paign to impede and frustrate the House of
Representatives in the exercise of its Im-
peachment Power, he is putting his interests
and his desires above the interests of The
People, the gravest offense that can be com-
mitted in a democratic republic.
The impeachment power is vested solely in
the House of Representatives because no one
can tell the People how to go about protecting
themselves; if they are required to obtain the
permission or consent of another body, then
the People are not in charge of determining
their fate, and that means our system can be
called many things but not a democratic re-
public.
Madam Speaker, in 1862, at another mo-
ment of national crisis, President Lincoln said:
‘‘The fiery trial through which we pass,
will light us down,
in honor or dishonor,
to the latest generation.’’
And I say to the Members of the House
that:
In honoring and defending the Constitution,
We defend and honor ourselves,
Precious alike in what we give
and what we receive.
For in honoring and defending the Constitu-
tion,
We keep faith with the Framers to whom we
are heir, and
Are worthy of the esteem of our countrymen,
Now, and in the generations to come.
Madam Speaker, as a Member of Congress,
I have taken an oath to preserve, protect, and
defend the Constitution of the United States
against all enemies, foreign and domestic, and
I do not shrink from this duty.
So, with love and reverence for this country
and its people, I stand with the Constitution
and that is why I supported the resolution im-
peaching Donald John Trump, President of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.036 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1633
December 19, 2019
United States, for high crimes and mis-
demeanors.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MR.
ROBERT B. DALEY
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Mr. Robert B. Daley who
passed away on December 15, 2019, at the
age of 87. A veteran, dedicated teacher, lov-
ing husband, father, and grandfather, Mr.
Daley will be dearly missed by his family,
friends, and community.
After graduating from St. Lucy’s High School
in Syracuse, Mr. Daley went on to study at Le
Moyne College where he earned his bach-
elor’s degree in 1954. Mr. Daley was a lifelong
advocate of Le Moyne College. It was at Le
Moyne that Mr. Daley and my father became
fast friends. My family is forever grateful that
Mr. Daley introduced my father to my mother,
Mary Lou, and was rewarded by being best
man at their wedding.
Following graduation, Mr. Daley went on to
enlist in the United States Army. While in the
Army, Mr. Daley was stationed at Schofield
Barracks in Honolulu, Hawaii. Upon com-
pleting his tour of duty in 1957, Mr. Daley re-
turned to Central New York to work for Bristol
Labs and later, at Jamesville-Dewitt High
School, where he taught Chemistry and Earth
Science for 34 years before retiring. Following
his retirement, Mr. Daley continued to be ac-
tive in the education field, consulting for Syra-
cuse University. In this role, he observed
teachers in various Central New York school
districts, working to mentor the next genera-
tion of teachers.
Throughout Mr. Daley’s career, he has been
a dedicated volunteer, helping build homes for
Habitat for Humanity, assisting with the New
York State Science Olympiad, and supporting
numerous activities for St. Ann Catholic
Church of Manlius, where he was an active
member. Madam Speaker, I ask that my col-
leagues in the House join me in honoring the
life of Mr. Robert B. Daley. A devoted family-
man, career educator, and patriot, I wish his
family peace during this incredibly difficult
time.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 25TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF THE JAPANESE
AMERICAN ARCHIVAL COLLEC-
TION
HON. DORIS O. MATSUI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, it is with
great pleasure that I rise to honor the 25th An-
niversary and the magnificent work of the Jap-
anese American Archival Collection at Cali-
fornia State University, Sacramento (Sac-
ramento State). I ask all my colleagues to join
me in acknowledging the contributions of the
Japanese American Archival Collection, as
their work has preserved the deep history of
Japanese Americans in the Sacramento Re-
gion, as well as the history of World War II in-
ternment, redress and reparations.
The collection was created in 1994 from the
generous gifts from Mary Tsukamoto, the Flor-
in JACL, and the Sacramento VFW Nisei Post
8985, along with many other families and
community members. This collection includes
Ms. Tsukamoto’s educational materials about
the internment camps and a wealth of material
about the Japanese-American community, in-
cluding pages from her father’s scrapbook,
news publications, and photographs. The
JAAC also includes historical artifacts, such as
blankets, various military records, and per-
sonal journals. Since its founding, the collec-
tion has grown to include California State Uni-
versity’s (CSU) Japanese American
Digitization Project, which is a collection of
over 2,900 images and documents from 15
CSU campuses related to the WWII incarcer-
ation of American citizens of Japanese de-
scent. This award-winning collection also in-
cludes the JAAC Imagebase, which is com-
prised of over 1,300 photographs in a search-
able database. Through the entire collection,
scholars and the public can view images that
range from the pictures of the inside of an in-
ternment camp to images of the uniforms worn
by the Japanese-American nurses that worked
in the camps. All of the documents, photo-
graphs and artifacts in the JAAC are a piece
of our nation’s history and I am so pleased
that Sacramento State has taken the leader-
ship to preserve them. Finally, I must add my
deep and personal appreciation to the JAAC,
as it is the host the Robert Matsui Legacy col-
lection, which includes a number of news arti-
cles, pictures and videos about the redress
and reparations movement.
Madam Speaker, I am pleased to rise to
honor the important work of the Japanese
American Archival Collection at Sacramento
State. This archival collection is absolutely im-
portant for all Americans, as we must continue
to commit to learning from our nation’s history
of past mistakes, if we are to not repeat them
in the future. I ask all my colleagues to join
me in celebrating the 25th Anniversary of this
significant collection, and all those who have
contributed personal items or have helped it
grow.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 2019 INSTALLA-
TION OF OFFICERS FOR THE
DALE CITY VOLUNTEER FIRE
DEPARTMENT
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the 2019 installation of officers for
the Dale City Volunteer Fire Department which
is located in Prince William County Virginia, 25
miles from our Nation’s Capital. The DCVFD
goes on an average of 20,000 calls per year,
serving and protecting the 75,000 residents of
Dale City, Virginia.
Incorporated in the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia in 1967, the DCVFD ensures the safety
of families in Dale City. Funded by the resi-
dents of Dale City and comprised of com-
mitted community members, the Department
has been able to significantly grow throughout
the years. From humble beginnings on the
front lawn of the first Fire Chief’s home,
DCVFD has expanded to five stations in the
last 50 years with approximately 250 dedi-
cated volunteers. With bravery and dedication,
DCVFD is readily available for the families of
Dale City.
Their motto, Second to None, amplifies their
dedication of preparedness, safety, and strong
community service. Over the past 50 years,
DCVFD has educated and mentored the youth
in Dale City, not only teaching fire safety edu-
cation, but also strengthening community rela-
tions.
It is with great honor I include in the
RECORD the names of the following Dale City
Fire Department Officers:
Chief—Christopher Hool.
Deputy Chief of Operations—Edgar Van
Horn.
Deputy Chief of Administration—James
Delaverson.
Deputy Chief of EMS—Barbara Brown.
Assistant Chiefs of Training—Darrell Hud-
son.
Assistant Chiefs—Steve Chappell, Marc
Sherman, Jeremy McPike, Sandra Sokol.
Captains—Eddy Dumire, Joshua Jensen,
Linda Wortham, Thomas Mazzo, Patrick
Palacios, Kimberly Batson.
Lieutenants—Thomas Borsari, Michael
Cajayon, Simon Courtman, Daniel Moran,
Donavan Stewart, John Van Horn, Mett Wer-
ner, Jabin Young, Stephanie DeFreitas.
Sergeants—Robert Best II, Andrew Kelly,
Robert Willis, Sam Porter Sr., Jordan Maplass,
Bradley Gray, Steve Chasin, Muhamad Naiz,
Joe Krimmer, Lauren Clowser, Nikia Griffiths.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
join me in congratulating the newly installed
officers and in recognizing the men and
women of the Dale City Volunteer Fire Depart-
ment for their service to our country and
steadfast commitment to their community.
f
HONORING THE CAREER OF
MAYOR THOMAS F. KELAHER
HON. ANDY KIM
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Mayor Tom Kelaher, of Toms River,
New Jersey, on the occasion of his retirement
from public service.
Mayor Kelaher has devoted his career to
serving his country, and his community in
Ocean County. While attending college, Mayor
Kelaher enlisted in the United States Marine
Corps, where he served in various roles dur-
ing his deployments, eventually ending his ac-
tive duty service as the executive officer of the
Marine Barracks at Lakehurst Naval Air Sta-
tion in New Jersey. After his release from ac-
tive duty, Mayor Kelaher remained in the Ma-
rine Corps Reserves.
Mayor Kelaher then began a 49-year career
practicing law in the state of New Jersey. He
served as Deputy Attorney General of New
Jersey by Governor Hughes in 1963, and was
appointed as the Assistant Ocean County
Prosecutor from 1969 to 1974. He also served
as Prosecutor for various Ocean County mu-
nicipalities. Throughout his career, Mayor
Kelaher remained dedicated to improving
health care services in Ocean County, serving
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.037 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1634 December 19, 2019
as a volunteer member of the Community
Medical Center Board of Trustees for 25
years, Chairman of the Board for Clara Mass
Medical Center, member of the Board of
Trustees of Kimball Medical Center and St.
Barnabas Behavior Health Center. In 1998,
Mayor Kelaher was named Hospital Trustee of
the Year by the New Jersey Hospital Associa-
tion. Mayor Kelaher was sworn in as Mayor of
Toms River on January 1, 2008, and was re-
elected again in 2012 and 2015.
Over the course of his career, Mayor
Kelaher has served Toms River, Ocean Coun-
ty, and New Jersey dutifully, and has made
strides to improve the lives of his neighbors.
Mayor Kelaher’s will be hard shoes to fill.
I thank Mayor Kelaher for all he has done
for our community in Ocean County. I hope
that he will enjoy spending more time with his
wife, Carol, and their eight grandchildren, and
I wish him all the best in his retirement.
f
IMPEACHING DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, FOR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
SPEECH OF
HON. TJ COX
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
Mr. COX of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise in support of the resolution.
The Central Valley sent me to Washington
to tackle our toughest issues, like skyrocketing
drug prices, polluted water in rural commu-
nities, and the struggling farm economy.
That’s why we just passed a bill to bring down
prescription drug prices, I introduced two key
bills to address our Valley water needs, and I
got the president to sign my Family Farmer
Relief Act.
They also sent me to Washington to defend
the Constitution, because that’s what protects
all of our rights and freedoms.
Here are the facts: Our president abused
his power and used your taxpayer money to
advance his own personal interest, and when
Congress fulfilled its duty to investigate, the
president acted as if he were above the law,
obstructing the investigation by withholding
witnesses and subpoenaed documents.
Both of those actions violate our sacred
Constitution, which only identifies one remedy
for Congress to hold the president account-
able. In obeying that solemn duty to my con-
stituents and the Constitution, it is my respon-
sibility to cast votes in favor of both articles of
impeachment, for abuse of power and for ob-
struction of Congress.
f
IMPEACHING DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, FOR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
SPEECH OF
HON. JODY B. HICE
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
Mr. HICE of Georgia. Madam Speaker, the
Democrats’ new definition for evidence is alle-
gations. Allegations based on hearsay, I might
add. They hurl allegations against the Presi-
dent and then say to him it’s not their respon-
sibility to prove guilty but it’s the President’s
responsibility to prove his innocence. This has
been a sham and an act of injustice against
the President and against 63 million Ameri-
cans who voted for him. Although this process
was rigged from the beginning, Democrats
never produced a single true piece of evi-
dence. It’s time for us to stop this hoax and
vote against these articles of impeachment.
f
IMPEACHING DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, FOR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
SPEECH OF
HON. JOHN B. LARSON
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam
Speaker, I would like to include in the RECORD
two episodes of Pardon Me—Another Damn
Impeachment Show?, a radio show hosted by
Colin McEnroe of WNPR. I found these pro-
grams to be extremely enlightening and in-
formative. I believe they should help Ameri-
cans be better informed on this issue.
PARDON ME—ANOTHER DAMN IMPEACHMENT
SHOW?: ‘‘A HEARTBREAKING WORK OF STAG-
GERING IMPEACHMENT WITH DAVE EGGERS
AND MORE’’ & ‘‘ADAM GOPNIK: STOP SAYING
IMPEACHMENT IS POLITICAL’’
(Connecticut Public Radio)
A HEARTBREAKING WORK OF STAGGERING
IMPEACHMENT WITH DAVE EGGERS AND MORE
Colin McEnroe: When we first started to
think about doing a podcast called, ‘‘Pardon
Me (Another Damn Impeachment Show?),’’
one of the things we agreed that we would do
is not just talk to political pundits and law
school professors and people like that, but
explore how the culture responds to some-
thing as engulfing as an impeachment proc-
ess, and then we had a chance to talk to
Dave Eggers. Dave Eggers is, of course, the
legendary writer and creator and editor and
lots of other things and kind of an activist
and also a guy who, as a journalist, and
you’ll hear a little bit about this, traveled
around during the 2016 campaign going to a
lot of Donald Trump rallies trying to under-
stand and empathize with the people who
were excited by the prospect of a President
Donald Trump. . . .
Please visit this link to listen to the whole
episode: https://www.wnpr.org/post/dave-
eggers-full-uncut-interview.
ADAM GOPNIK: STOP SAYING IMPEACHMENT IS
POLITICAL
Colin McEnroe: Hi. You’re listening to
kind of a little extra we’re doing for you.
Adam Gopnik, from The New Yorker. See,
I’ll get in trouble if I say this, but he might
be the smartest person I know. I mean,
there’s probably a lot of other people who
think they’re the smartest person that I
know, but you know it might be Gopnik. I
mean you can’t sneak anything by him, he’s
really that smart. And when we first started
thinking about doing a very special series of
shows about the impeachment process, he
was one of the first people who popped into
my head because Adam’s already always
doing what we like to do, which is thinking
about politics and governance but melding it
with his very keen understanding of history
and his sense of how culture works.
I mean there was no way we weren’t going
to do a conversation with him. So we got
him. He’s also now, you know a guy he’s got
a pull playwriting thing going on so I think
he was like running back from a rehearsal or
something like that to the NPR studios in
New York to talk to us. So if he sounds a lit-
tle out of breath, that’s why. But he’s never
out of ideas. So let’s go. Adam Gopnik. We’re
so excited as part of the show to have some-
one who has joined our regular show many
times.
Please visit this link to listen to the whole
episode: https://www.wnpr.org/post/adam-
gopnik-stop-saying-impeachment-political.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 2019 STARS
OVER DULLES AWARD RECIPIENTS
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the Dulles Regional Chamber of
Commerce for its ongoing dedication to local
businesses and our community and to con-
gratulate the 2019 ‘‘Stars Over Dulles’’ Award
recipients.
This year, at the 24th Annual Stars Over
Dulles Awards Luncheon, the Chamber will
honor those extraordinary businesses, non-
profit organizations, and citizens who have
dedicated their talents and activities to en-
hancing our economy and our community.
As the former Chairman of the Fairfax
County Board of Supervisors, and now as a
Member of Congress representing this com-
munity, I have been proud to partner with the
Chamber on many issues that impact the lives
of our residents such as the Silver Line and in
celebrating the service that so many individ-
uals and businesses provide to our commu-
nity.
It is my honor to include in the RECORD the
following recipients of the 2019 Stars Over
Dulles Award:
Arts Community Leader: Kathleen Jacoby,
Herndon High School Band Director.
Distinguished Veteran: Paul Patton, CACI.
Financial Leader: Burke & Herbert Bank.
First Responder: Metropolitan Washington
Airports Authority Police Department.
Health & Wellness Leader: Fitness Aspects.
Hospitality & Tourism Leader: Sean Hunt,
Mustang Sally Brewing Company.
Minority Owned Business Leader: Remedy
Intelligent Staffing.
Non-Profit Leader: MaryEllen Walsh, West-
ern Fairfax Christian Ministries.
Real Estate & Development Leader: Dennis
Sharland.
Small Business Leader: StudioOne Screen
Printing and Embroidery.
Technology Leader: Cox Communications.
Transportation Leader: Georgia Graves,
Bridgman Communications.
Workforce & Education Leader: Children’s
Science Center.
Young Professional: Merideth Pless, Amer-
ican Executive Transportation
Chair’s Choice Award: Turning Point Suffra-
gist Memorial Association
Eileen D. Curtis Lifetime Achievement
Award: Doug Downer, President, HRI Associ-
ates
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.041 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1635
December 19, 2019
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in congratulating the 2019 Stars Over Dul-
les Award recipients and in thanking these
businesses and individuals for their many con-
tributions to our region’s economic success
and quality of life. Their efforts are among the
many reasons why Northern Virginia remains
one of the best places in the country in which
to live, work, raise a family and start a busi-
ness. I congratulate the honorees on receiving
these awards and wish them continued suc-
cess.
f
IN RECONGNITION OF BIBA
CAGGIANO
HON. DORIS O. MATSUI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, it is with
profound sadness that I rise to honor the life
of beloved Sacramento chef and my dear
friend Biba Caggiano. The legacy that Biba
leaves in Sacramento will be forever felt
through her restaurant and her acclaimed
Italian cook books. Biba not only invigorated
Sacramento’s food culture but was also a
symbol for hospitality and hard-work. As her
husband, Vincent, and their children Carla and
Paola, gather to remember her life and legacy,
I ask my colleagues to stand with me in her
memory.
Biba Caggiano was born in October of 1936
in Bologna, Italy. In 1960, Biba moved to New
York and found work with an Italian bank.
Soon after, Biba moved to Sacramento, where
she made homemade Italian dishes, a rare
cuisine in the region at the time. Her love for
traditional Italian cuisine was popular in Sac-
ramento, and she soon found herself cooking
and teaching others. In 1986, she opened the
now iconic midtown restaurant Biba, beginning
the movement that revolutionized Sacramento
cuisine. She continued to grow as a success-
ful chef, cookbook author, TV personality, and
restaurateur.
Since Biba has graced our region with her
inspiring dishes, Sacramento has become an
important place for food. She opened a path
for more chefs to pursue their own culinary ca-
reers in Sacramento. It cannot be overstated
the influence she has had on our city. Over
her career, Biba has received the Robert
Mondavi Culinary Award of Excellence, North-
ern California Chef of the Year, and the Sac-
ramento Business Journal’s Women Who
Mean Business Award.
Madam Speaker, today we honor the in-
credible life of Biba Caggiano; a wife, mother,
friend, teacher, and most importantly, a true
Sacramento treasure. Biba will be fondly re-
membered by all in our community for her cre-
ative spirit and her kind hospitality. I will re-
member her for her spirit, talent, and courage.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I missed sev-
eral votes on December 17th due to incliment
weather and a flight delay.
Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 683; NAY on Roll Call
No. 684; YEA on Roll Call No. 685; YEA on
Roll Call No. 686 and YEA on Roll Call No.
687.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BRAD R. WENSTRUP
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, had I
been present, I would have voted NAY on Roll
Call No. 671.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOSÉ E. SERRANO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. SERRANO. Madam Speaker, as a re-
sult of an ongoing need to address health
issues related to my Parkinson’s diagnosis,
and other recent health concerns, I was ab-
sent from votes yesterday, Wednesday, De-
cember 18, 2019. Had I been present, I would
have voted AYE on House roll call votes 695
and 696, the two articles of impeachment
against President Donald J. Trump.
President Trump’s actions with regard to
Ukraine have undermined our national secu-
rity, our democratic processes, and our Con-
stitution. He has abused his office and be-
trayed the trust that the American people
placed in him. Impeachment is the only re-
course to hold this president accountable for
his actions.
f
TRIBUTE TO THE 100TH SEASON
OF THE NATIONAL FOOTBALL
LEAGUE
HON. DANNY K. DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the
100th season of the National Football League.
Chicago is home to the 1986 Superbowl XX
Champion Chicago Bears and the 7th Con-
gressional District is one of the 13 ‘‘Original
Towns’’ from which came the 14 charter
teams that formed the American Professional
Football Association, which would become the
NFL.
During its inaugural 1920 season, the found-
ing teams that competed in the new league in-
cluded: the Akron Pros; Buffalo All-Americans;
Canton Bulldogs; Decatur Staleys; Racine
Cardinals; Chicago Tigers; Cleveland Tigers;
Columbus Panhandles; Dayton Triangles;
Hammond Pros; the Heralds (Detroit); Muncie
Flyers; Rock Island Independents; and the Jef-
fersons (Rochester, N.Y.). Two years later, the
new league was renamed the National Foot-
ball League.
From its humble beginnings, the National
Football League is now a preeminent sports
league, comprised of 32 teams from 22 states
across the country. In the span of a century,
the league has become intricately woven into
the fabric of American life and the foremost
steward of what is now known as ‘‘America’s
Game.’’ The league’s annual ‘‘Super Bowl’’
Championship is the single most-watched an-
nual television event in the United States,
bringing together individuals of all ages, races,
and backgrounds through a common enthu-
siasm for and appreciation of the game of
football.
The two pillars of the NFL are football arid
community, which are demonstrated through
the volunteerism and philanthropic efforts of
players, owners, coaches and staff, including
through programs and initiatives ranging from
honoring our nation’s veterans and service
members to promoting cancer awareness to
encouraging youth to maintain active and
healthy lifestyles. These efforts, both on and
off the field, reflect the character, commitment,
fortitude and teamwork that make our commu-
nities resilient and strong.
I therefore, recognize the National Football
League as a great sports league of the United
States and congratulate the NFL for 100 sea-
sons of uniting communities across the coun-
try, and look forward to another century of
NFL football.
f
RECOGNIZING THE WASHINGTON
REGIONAL ALCOHOL ROGRAM
LAW ENFORCEMENT AWARDS OF
EXCELLENCE
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Washington Regional
Alcohol Program (WRAP) and to congratulate
the recipients of the 22nd Annual Law En-
forcement Awards of Excellence for Impaired
Driving Prevention.
Founded in 1982, WRAP is an award-win-
ning, public-private coalition formed to fight
drunk driving, drugged driving, and underage
drinking in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan
region. Through educational and innovative
public outreach programs, WRAP is credited
with keeping local alcohol-related death rates
consistently below the national average. Its
programs educate students and the general
public on the dangers of alcohol and drugs,
particularly driving while under the influence.
Through the WRAP Holiday SoberRide pro-
gram, individuals who are impaired can re-
quest a free cab ride home. Since SoberRide
was launched in 1991, 78,926 free cab rides
have been provided in the Washington Metro-
politan area, preventing potential accidents
and deaths.
Since 1997, WRAP has sponsored an an-
nual Law Enforcement Awards Ceremony to
honor local law enforcement professionals
who have gone above and beyond the call of
duty in the fight against drunk driving. It is my
honor to include in the RECORD the names of
the 2019 Law Enforcement Awards of Excel-
lence for Impaired Driving Prevention recipi-
ents:
Officer Patrick Cushing—City of Alexandria
Police Department.
Corporal Bret Kooharian—Arlington County
Police Department.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.045 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1636 December 19, 2019
Officer Bryce Cooper—City of Falls Church
Police Department.
DWI Enforcement Squad—Fairfax County
Police Department.
Senior Sergeant Bobby Galpin—Town of
Herndon Police Department.
Deputy Caleb Hwang—Loudoun County
Sheriff’s Office.
Trooper First Class Anthony Wallace—
Maryland State Police.
Officer Henry Gallagher—Metropolitan Po-
lice Department (Washington, DC).
Corporal Patricia Cox—Metropolitan Wash-
ington Airports Authority Police Department.
Police Officer III John Romack—Mont-
gomery County Department of Police.
Corporal Thomas Kosakowski—Prince
George’s County Police Department.
Officer Chad Mason—Prince William County
Police Department.
Officer Daniel Begendorf—United States
Capitol Police.
Officer Christopher Gogarty—United States
Park Police.
Trooper Lucie Vajglova—Virginia State Po-
lice.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
join me in congratulating the recipients of the
Law Enforcement Awards of Excellence and in
recognizing WRAP for its 37 years of public
service. I commend the staff of WRAP under
the leadership of President and CEO Kurt
Erickson and Board Chairman Gary Cohen for
their tireless dedication to eradicating under-
age drinking and drunk or drugged driving.
Their efforts combined with the support of
partner organizations and law enforcement
agencies have saved lives and are deserving
of our highest praise and gratitude.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JERROLD NADLER
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. NADLER. Madam, Speaker, due to a
family emergency, I was not in Washington,
D.C. on December 17, 2019, and, as a result,
I missed eight votes. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘aye’’ on roll call vote no.
683, ordering the previous question providing
for consideration of H.R. 1158, H.R. 1865, and
for adoption of H. Res. 761; ‘‘aye’’ on roll call
vote no. 684, on agreeing to H.Res. 765, the
rule providing for consideration of H.R. 1158,
H.R. 1865, and for adoption of H. Res. 761;
‘‘aye’’ on roll call vote no. 685, final passage
of H.R. 4183, the ‘‘Identifying Barriers and
Best Practices Study Act;’’ ‘‘aye’’ on roll call
vote no. 686, final passage of H.R. 3530, the
‘‘Improving Confidence in Veterans’ Care Act;’’
‘‘aye’’ on roll call vote no. 687, final passage
of H.R. 722, the ‘‘Miracle Mountain Designa-
tion Act;’’ ‘‘aye’’ on roll call no. 688, final pas-
sage of H.R. 2548, the ‘‘Hazard Eligibility and
Local Projects Act;’’ ‘‘aye’’ on roll call no. 689,
on the motion to concur in the Senate amend-
ment with an amendment to H.R. 1865, the
‘‘National Law Enforcement Museum Com-
memorative Coin Act;’’ and ‘‘no’’ on roll call
no. 690, on the motion to concur in the Senate
amendment with an amendment to H.R. 1158,
the ‘‘DHS Cyber Hunt and Incident Response
Team Act.’’
I also was not in Washington, D.C. on De-
cember 19, 2019, and, as a result, I missed
three votes. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘no’’ on roll call vote no. 699, the motion
to recommit with instructions H.R. 5377, the
‘‘Restoring Tax Fairness for States and Local-
ities Act;’’ ‘‘aye’’ on roll call vote no. 700, final
passage of H.R. 5377; and ‘‘no’’ on roll call
vote no. 701, final passage of H.R. 5430, ‘‘to
implement the USMCA.’’
f
TRIBUTE TO MAJOR COY PAYNE
HON. GREG STANTON
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. STANTON. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the life and legacy of Coy Payne, the
first African-American to serve as mayor in the
state of Arizona, who passed away Sunday,
December 8, 2019, at the age of 90. Arizo-
nans will remember him as a trailblazer who
overcame the struggles of poverty and racism
to dedicate his life to serving his community.
From his time as a soldier in the Korean War,
to his time teaching elementary school stu-
dents, to his time as a civil rights leader,
Mayor Payne’s enduring legacy was love for
his community.
The second of nine children born to share-
croppers in Sulphur Springs, Texas, on May
22, 1929, Payne’s family relocated to Eloy, Ar-
izona in the 1940s, where they worked the
fields to earn enough money to buy a car.
They relocated to Chandler shortly after,
where Payne attended segregated schools in
Chandler and Mesa. After graduating from the
only high school he could attend, George
Washington Carver High School in downtown
Phoenix—an hour bus ride and 30-minute
walk away from home—Payne was drafted by
the U.S. Anny to serve in the Korean War.
After returning from Korea, he received a de-
gree in education from Arizona State Univer-
sity and taught in the Chandler Unified School
District-the very district that denied him an
education as a child. He continued teaching
students there for more than thirty years.
It was during this time as an educator and
administrator that he also became an advo-
cate. He joined the Chandler Human Relations
Committee and worked to improve race rela-
tions in Chandler. In 1980, Payne won a seat
on Chandler City Council. And in 1990, Payne
won a landslide victory in the mayoral election,
becoming the first African American to serve
as a mayor of any city in the State of Arizona.
Chandler’s population ballooned 96 percent
during his tenure as mayor—and he steered
that growth in a positive direction. The impact
of his leadership is still felt in City Hall, and his
spirit of service is carried on by the many he
influenced and mentored. Thank you, Mayor
Payne, and Godspeed.
f
TRIBUTE TO RICHARD ‘‘RICK’’
GRAHAM HILL
HON. GWEN MOORE
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, I rise to pay
tribute to the life of Richard ‘‘Rick’’ Graham
Hill of Oneida, Wisconsin. Rick was born on
January 6, 1953, in Detroit, Michigan, and
lived a life filled with love and compassion for
both his community and nation. He was a poli-
tician, innovator, entrepreneur and leader.
Rick descended from a family committed to
public service. His grandmother, Dr. L. Rosa
Minoka Hill, was the second American Indian
woman doctor in the nation, and his mother
was a registered nurse. He began following in
the footsteps of his family at a young age,
often accompanying his father to tribal meet-
ings, which cultivated him into the leader he
eventually became.
Rick went go on to be a long-serving coun-
cilman and vice-chairman of the Oneida Na-
tion, and served two non-consecutive terms as
the nation’s chairman. During his first term, he
also served simultaneously as chairman of the
National Indian Gaming Association (NIGA),
representing and advocating for 168 federally-
recognized tribes in the gaming industry.
Under his leadership, NIGA became a nation-
ally-recognized voice on Indian gaming issues,
and successfully initiated the development of
national regulatory standards and policies for
tribal governmental gaming. As chairman of
the Oneida Nation, Rick signed the first gam-
ing compact with the state of Wisconsin. Even
after retirement, Rick continued his service by
forming Hill Group, LLC. There he consulted
with various stakeholders to identify economic
development projects and partnerships in In-
dian Country. He also formed RGH Holdings
the first ever consortium of tribes to invest in
real estate development projects outside of
the reservations. Out of all his contributions,
Rick was most proud of his work serving on
the board of the Native American Rights Fund
and the Public Sector Gaming Study Commis-
sion.
His devotion and commitment to serving
others has been recognized with honors and
awards including: the Eagle Visionary Award,
the Pathbreakers Award and induction into the
Indian Gaming Hall of Fame. He was also the
first Indian Gaming inductee into the Gaming
Hall of Fame.
He was a loving husband, father, and ten-
derhearted coach to his sons and so many
others. Rick leaves to cherish his memory: his
spouse, and my dear friend, Donsia Strong
Hill, as well as his children: Richard (Desirae),
Sage, Dakota, and his two grandchildren:
Asher and Vine. He is also survived by sib-
lings: Barbara Author, Norbert, Jr. (Mary),
Rosa (Rick) Coenen; sister-in-law, Lenora
Hatathlie and brother-in-law, Mike Author; his
nieces: Megan, Sarah, Maria, Nasbah
(Jamison), Nanabah (Michael), Melissa
(Scott); and his nephews: DinéNizhoni, Chris-
topher (Maria), Mark, Nabahe, Norbert III
(Erin), and goddaughter, Jolene Billie; and
long-term business partner and colleague,
Dawn Reiter.
Rick always credited his success to those
who supported, mentored and befriended him
while working in Indian Country. I am proud to
have worked with Rick over a 30-year period
and happy to have called him my friend. I am
inspired by his work to continuously help other
tribes and will work collaboratively with them
to establish strong tribal governments. Every-
thing he’s accomplished came from the heart,
and the legacy he leaves behind reflects the
positive impact of his service.
Madam Speaker, it is for these reasons I
rise to salute Richard ‘‘Rick’’ Graham Hill, a
man who has made the State of Wisconsin
and our nation a better place.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.051 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1637
December 19, 2019
SUPPORT FOR FOREST SERVICE
AS CO-LEAD FOR ANY NEPA-RE-
QUIRED ENVIRONMENTAL RE-
VIEW OF TWIN METALS MINE
PLAN ADJACENT TO THE BOUND-
ARY WATERS CANOE AREA WIL-
DERNESS
HON. BETTY McCOLLUM
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, a mine
plan of operation for a Twin Metals sulfide-ore
copper mine adjacent to the Boundary Waters
Canoe Area Wilderness (BWCA) and up-
stream of Voyageurs National Park was sub-
mitted to the Bureau of Land Management
(BLM) on December 18, 2019, along with ap-
plications for federal mineral leases. The pro-
posed mine site is on Superior National Forest
land in Minnesota. NEPA-required environ-
mental review is expected to commence early
in 2020.
The Superior National Forest and the
BWCA are managed by the Forest Service.
Under 16 USC Sec. 508b the Forest Service
has independent consent authority for mining
approvals in the Superior National Forest and
thus has co-equal authority for mining deci-
sions. For 20 months in 2017 and 2018, the
Forest Service led a detailed study of environ-
mental, economic, and social impacts of cop-
per mining in the watershed of the BWCA.
For all of these reasons, Congress expects
that any NEPA-required environmental review
of a Twin Metals mine plan and federal min-
eral leases be co-led by the Forest Service
and the BLM, and not led solely by the BLM.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RECIPIENTS OF
THE 2019 NORTHERN VIRGINIA
LEADERSHIP AWARDS
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the 2019 recipients of the Northern
Virginia Leadership Awards presented by
Leadership Fairfax.
Leadership Fairfax is a nonprofit corporation
whose mission is to inspire, connect, develop
and engage the next generation of leaders in
Northern Virginia so that they are prepared to
serve and strengthen our community. Grad-
uates from its programs become part of a fast-
growing network of civic leaders. I’ve always
said, ‘‘When you walk into a crowded room,
it’s easy to spot the graduates of Leadership
Fairfax—they just stand out.’’
Each year, Leadership Fairfax recognizes
individuals or organizations that have dem-
onstrated exceptional leadership and made
extraordinary contributions to our community.
It is my honor to include in the RECORD the
following names of the 2019 Northern Virginia
Leadership Awards recipients:
Non-Profit Leader: Joe Meyer, CEO, Shelter
House.
Corporate Leadership, Organization:
Womble Bond Dickinson.
Corporate Leadership, Individual: Shirley
Luu, Shirley Luu & Associates.
Regional Leadership: Danny Vargas, Presi-
dent, VARCom Solutions.
Trustee Leadership: Linda Mathes, CEO,
Red Cross in the National Capital Region.
Educational Leadership: Rebecca Cousins,
West Springfield High School.
Madam Speaker, the contributions of these
individuals and organizations are one of the
reasons why Fairfax is such a sought after
community in which to live and work, and this
year’s honorees highlight the legacy of Lead-
ership Fairfax in preparing our community’s fu-
ture leaders to address the challenges we
face. I ask my colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating these honorees and thanking them
for their service to Northern Virginia.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RECIPIENTS OF
THE 2019 NORTHERN VIRGINIA
LEADERSHIP AWARDS
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize the
Colonel Jacqueline Jayneen Jackson, on oc-
casion of her retirement after over 30 years of
service in the United States Army.
Colonel Jackson joined the Army in 1986
through the Reserve Officer Training Corps at
Standford University. It was from there that
she obtained a degree in political science. She
went on to earn a law degree from the Univer-
sity of California, Los Angeles, and she en-
tered the Judge Advocate General’s Corps in
1989.
While on active duty, Colonel Jackson
served in several roles, including trial counsel.
These assignments took her to California,
New Jersey, Washington, D.C., Virginia, and
Texas throughout her career.
Colonel Jackson continued her career in the
United States Army Reserve (USAR) where
she served in the USAR Element on the Joint
Chiefs of Staff in Washington, D.C. She also
served as a military social aide for the White
House during the George H. Bush and Bill
Clinton administrations.
Colonel Jackson’s commendable service
earned her multiple decorations, including the
Defense Superior Service Medal, Meritorious
Service Medal with four Oak Leaf Clusters,
Joint Service Army Commendation Medal,
Army Commendation Medal, and Army
Achievement Medal.
In her civilian life Colonel Jackson continues
to answer the call for justice as an immigration
judge with the Department of Justice in San
Francisco.
Throughout her career, Colonel Jackson has
carried on the legacy of her father, United
States Air Force Technical Sergeant Edwin
Jackson, who died in service to our country.
Her exceptional work surely made both her fa-
ther and mother, Edna Jackson, extremely
proud. Colonel Jackson also draws support
from her husband, Morris A. Graves, Jar.
On behalf of the Fifteenth Congressional
District of California, I would like to commend
Colonel Jackson on an impeccable career of
dedicated service and offer her best wishes
for a happy retirement.
12 DAYS OF SALT
HON. MIKIE SHERRILL
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Ms. SHERRILL. Madam Speaker, to con-
clude my earlier remarks on the 12 Days of
SALT, I rise to include in the RECORD the
testimonials of mayors from New Jersey’s 11th
District attesting to the harm that the SALT
cap has had on their communities.
On this ninth day of SALT, a bipartisan
group of mayors in my district have shared
with me, statements about how SALT is harm-
ing our residents in New Jersey’s 11th Con-
gressional District. Today, I’d like to share
their words:
Mayor Molly Whilesmith of Sparta said:
‘‘The exodus from New Jersey is nothing
new. Our state and local property taxes have
been amongst the highest in the nation for
decades. New Jersey Snowbirds flocked
South upon retirement. The current trend is
to sell the house and pack the moving truck
right after the youngest child graduates
from high school. The cap makes NJ much
less attractive for the average hardworking
New Jersey Family.’’
Mayor Keith Kazmark of Woodland Park:
‘‘The full SALT deduction must be rein-
stated for the benefit of New Jersey middle
class families. Folks in our area were hard-
est hit by this change in the tax code. 51% of
Woodland Park taxpayers pay more than
$10,000 in local property taxes and that does
not include their state taxes. That’s over
1,800 residential property owners in our
town.’’
Mayor Bruce Harris of Chatham Borough
said:
‘‘The story for Chatham Borough is pretty
simple. The average property tax bill is
about $14,100, so 40% is no longer deductible.
Obviously, that impacts people’s pockets; it
also impacts housing values. NJ is a payer
state—it sends much more to the federal
government than it receives back.’’
According to Mayor Jeff Grayzel of Morris
Township:
‘‘We all teach our children to play fair, be-
cause fairness in one of the key elements
that makes our democracy the great thing it
is. However, the cap on SALT deductions is
simply unfair and penalizes the residents of
New Jersey. Let’s be fair to all and drop this
penalty on New Jerseyans.’’
Mayor John Kelley, Borough of Caldwell:
‘‘Caldwell taxpayers are directly impacted
and blindsided by the limits put on SALT de-
ductions. Caldwell families manage their fi-
nances and tax liability closely and for many
years have relied upon their state income
taxes and Caldwell property taxes to reduce
their federal income tax through itemized
deductions. The impact of the limits on
SALT deductions are felt throughout our
community.’’
Mayor Michael Soriano, Parsippany:
‘‘Parsippany is a community similar to
many across the country, but unlike towns
in other states, Congress decided to target
our residents with a tax bill that limits their
ability to deduct state and local taxes.
Homeowners in Parsippany shouldn’t have to
pay more in federal tax dollars when we
know the money isn’t coming back to fund
our schools or repair our roads.’’
Our mayors are on the ground in our com-
munities and know that the SALT deduction
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.055 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1638 December 19, 2019
cap is harmful to our residents. This isn’t a
Republican or a Democratic issue in our state.
It’s time for Congress to stop punishing our municipalities and our taxpayers and reinstate
the full SALT deduction.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:36 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A19DE8.058 E19DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
D1406
Thursday, December 19, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate agreed to the motion to concur in the amendment of the House
to the amendment of the Senate to H.R. 1865, Further Consolidated
Appropriations Act.
Senate agreed to the motion to concur in the amendment of the House
to the amendment of the Senate to H.R. 1158, Consolidated Appro-
priations Act.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S7167–S7240
Measures Introduced: Forty-three bills and five res-
olutions were introduced, as follows: S. 3106–3148,
and S. Res. 458–462. Pages S7207–08
Measures Reported:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Further Revised Alloca-
tion to Subcommittees of Budget Totals for Fiscal
Year 2020’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–181)
Special Report entitled ‘‘Measuring the Economic
Impact of Broadband Act of 2019’’. (S. Rept. No.
116–186)
Special Report entitled ‘‘Veterans Expedited TSA
Screening Safe Travel Act’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–187)
Special Report entitled ‘‘TSA Credential and En-
dorsement Harmonization Act of 2019’’. (S. Rept.
No. 116–188)
S. 496, to preserve United States fishing heritage
through a national program dedicated to training
and assisting the next generation of commercial fish-
ermen. (S. Rept. No. 116–83)
S. 149, to establish a Senior Scams Prevention Ad-
visory Council, with an amendment in the nature of
a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–182)
S. 893, to require the President to develop a strat-
egy to ensure the security of next generation mobile
telecommunications systems and infrastructure in the
United States and to assist allies and strategic part-
ners in maximizing the security of next generation
mobile telecommunications systems, infrastructure,
and software, with an amendment in the nature of
a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–184)
S. 2166, to designate Regional Ocean Partnerships
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–185)
S. 886, to amend the Omnibus Public Land Man-
agement Act of 2009 to make the Reclamation
Water Settlements Fund permanent, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute. (S. Rept. No.
116–189) Page S7207
Measures Passed:
Broadband Deployment Accuracy and Techno-
logical Availability Act: Senate passed S. 1822, to
require the Federal Communications Commission to
issue rules relating to the collection of data with re-
spect to the availability of broadband services, after
withdrawing the committee amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute, and agreeing to the following
amendment proposed thereto: Pages S7178–85
Wicker Amendment No. 1268, in the nature of
a substitute. Page S7180
Enrollment Correction: Senate agreed to H. Con.
Res. 81, directing the Clerk of the House of Rep-
resentatives to make a correction in the enrollment
of H.R. 1158. Page S7193
Enrollment Correction: Senate agreed to H. Con.
Res. 82, directing the Clerk of the House of Rep-
resentatives to make a correction in the enrollment
of H.R. 1865. Page S7193
Securing American Nonprofit Organizations
Against Terrorism Act: Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs was discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 2476, to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide fund-
ing to secure nonprofit facilities from terrorist at-
tacks, and the bill was then passed. Page S7226
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:10 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D19DE9.REC D19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1407
December 19, 2019
Fallen Warrior Battlefield Cross Memorial Act:
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs was discharged from
further consideration of H.R. 1424, to amend title
38, United States Code, to ensure the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs permits the display of Fallen Soldier
Displays in national cemeteries, and the bill was
then passed. Page S7226
Construction Consensus Procurement Improve-
ment Act: Senate passed S. 1434, to prohibit the use
of reverse auctions for design and construction serv-
ices procurements, after agreeing to the following
amendment proposed thereto: Page S7229
McConnell (for Portman) Amendment No. 1269,
to modify the definition of reverse auction to cover
the awarding of contracts and orders that are based
solely on the price obtained through the auction
process. Page S7229
Members of Congress Pension Opt Out Clari-
fication Act: Senate passed S. 439, to allow Mem-
bers of Congress to opt out of the Federal Employees
Retirement System, and allow Members who opt out
of the Federal Employees Retirement System to con-
tinue to participate in the Thrift Savings Plan, after
agreeing to the following amendment proposed
thereto: Page S7229
McConnell (for Cardin) Amendment No. 1270, to
improve the bill. Page S7229
Department of Veterans Affairs Provider Ac-
countability Act: Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
was discharged from further consideration of S. 221,
to amend title 38, United States Code, to require
the Under Secretary of Health to report major ad-
verse personnel actions involving certain health care
employees to the National Practitioner Data Bank
and to applicable State licensing boards, and the bill
was then passed, after agreeing to the following
amendment proposed thereto: Pages S7229–30
McConnell (for Gardner/Manchin) Amendment
No. 1271, in the nature of a substitute. Page S7230
Improving Safety and Security for Veterans Act:
Senate passed S. 3147, to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress reports on
patient safety and quality of care at medical centers
of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Pages S7230–31
Veterans Legacy Program: Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs was discharged from further consider-
ation of H.R. 2385, to permit the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to establish a grant program to conduct
cemetery research and produce educational materials
for the Veterans Legacy Program, and the bill was
then passed. Page S7231
National Cemetery Association Tribal Training:
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs was discharged from
further consideration of S. 2096, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to authorize States and tribal or-
ganizations that receive grants from the National
Cemetery Administration for establishment, expan-
sion, or improvement of a veterans’ cemeteries to use
amounts of such grants for State and tribal organiza-
tion cemetery personnel to train at the training cen-
ter of the National Cemetery Administration, and
the bill was then passed, after agreeing to the fol-
lowing amendment proposed thereto: Pages S7231–32
McConnell (for Boozman) Amendment No. 1272,
in the nature of a substitute. Page S7232
Merchant Mariners of World War II Congres-
sional Gold Medal Act: Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs was discharged from
further consideration of H.R. 550, to award a Con-
gressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the United
States Merchant Mariners of World War II, in rec-
ognition of their dedicated and vital service during
World War II, and the bill was then passed, after
agreeing to the following amendment proposed
thereto: Pages S7232–33
McConnell (for Murkowski/Cruz) Amendment No.
1273, in the nature of a substitute. Page S7232
Dogs as Witness Guardians Act: Committee on
the Judiciary was discharged from further consider-
ation of S. 1029, to allow the use of certified facility
dogs in criminal proceedings in Federal courts, and
the bill was then passed, after agreeing to the fol-
lowing amendment proposed thereto: Pages S7233–34
McConnell (for Cornyn) Amendment No. 1274, in
the nature of a substitute. Page S7233
Majority Party’s Membership on Certain Com-
mittees: Senate agreed to S. Res. 459, to constitute
the majority party’s membership on certain commit-
tees for the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, or
until their successors are chosen. Page S7213
American Geophysical Union Centennial: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 460, congratulating the American
Geophysical Union on the occasion of its centennial.
Pages S7213–14
Congratulating Seattle Sounders FC: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 461, congratulating Seattle Sound-
ers FC on winning the 2019 Major League Soccer
Cup. Page S7214
Combating Global Corruption Act: Senate passed
S. 1309, to identify and combat corruption in coun-
tries, to establish a tiered system of countries with
respect to levels of corruption by their governments
and their efforts to combat such corruption, and to
assess United States assistance to designated coun-
tries in order to advance anti-corruption efforts in
those countries and better serve United States tax-
payers, after withdrawing the committee amendment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:36 Mar 02, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\D19DE9.REC NAME
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1408 December 19, 2019
in the nature of a substitute, and agreeing to the fol-
lowing amendment proposed thereto: Pages S7234–36
McConnell (for Cardin) Amendment No. 1275, in
the nature of a substitute. Page S7236
National One Health Awareness Month: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 462, designating January 2020 as
‘‘National One Health Awareness Month’’ to pro-
mote awareness of organizations focused on public
health, animal health, and environmental health col-
laboration throughout the United States and to rec-
ognize the critical contributions of those organiza-
tions to the future of the United States.
Pages S7215, S7236
Promoting Physical Activity for Americans Act:
Senate passed S. 1608, to provide for the publication
by the Secretary of Health and Human Services of
physical activity recommendations for Americans,
after agreeing to the committee amendment in the
nature of a substitute. Pages S7239–40
House Messages:
Pallone-Thune TRACED Act: Senate agreed to
the motion to concur in the amendment of the
House to S. 151, to deter criminal robocall viola-
tions and improve enforcement of section 227(b) of
the Communications Act of 1934. Pages S7176–78
Further Consolidated Appropriations Act: By 71
yeas to 23 nays (Vote No. 415), Senate agreed to
McConnell motion to concur in the amendment of
the House to the amendment of the Senate to H.R.
1865, to require the Secretary of the Treasury to
mint a coin in commemoration of the opening of the
National Law Enforcement Museum in the District
of Columbia, after taking action on the following
motions and amendments proposed thereto:
Pages S7185–86
Withdrawn:
McConnell motion to concur in the amendment of
the House to the amendment of the Senate to the
bill, with McConnell Amendment No. 1258 (to the
House amendment to the Senate amendment), to
change the enactment date. Pages S7167–70
McConnell Amendment No. 1259 (to Amend-
ment No. 1258), of a perfecting nature, fell when
McConnell motion to concur in the amendment of
the House to the amendment of the Senate to the
bill, with McConnell Amendment No. 1258 (to the
House amendment to the Senate amendment) (listed
above) was withdrawn. Pages S7167–70
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 71 yeas to 21 nays (Vote No. 413), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on McConnell motion to con-
cur in the amendment of the House to the amend-
ment of the Senate to the bill. Pages S7170–76
McConnell motion to refer the message of the
House on the bill to the Committee on Appropria-
tions, with instructions, McConnell Amendment No.
1260, to change the enactment date, fell when clo-
ture was invoked on McConnell motion to concur in
the amendment of the House to the amendment of
the Senate to the bill. Pages S7167–70
McConnell Amendment No. 1261 (the instruc-
tions (Amendment No. 1260) of the motion to
refer), of a perfecting nature, fell when McConnell
motion to refer the message of the House on the bill
to the Committee on Appropriations, with instruc-
tions, McConnell Amendment No. 1260 (listed
above) fell. Pages S7167–70
McConnell Amendment No. 1262 (to Amend-
ment No. 1261), of a perfecting nature, fell when
McConnell Amendment No. 1261 (the instructions
(Amendment No. 1260) of the motion to refer) (list-
ed above) fell. Pages S7167–70
By 64 yeas to 30 nays (Vote No. 414), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to waive all applicable sections of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974 and applicable budget resolu-
tions with respect to the amendment of the House
to the amendment of the Senate to H.R. 1865 (list-
ed above). Subsequently, the point of order that the
bill was in violation of section 3101(b) of S. Con.
Res. 11, setting forth the congressional budget for
the United States Government for fiscal year 2016
and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for
fiscal years 2017 through 2025, was not sustained,
and thus the point of order fell. Pages S7185–86
Consolidated Appropriations Act: By 81 yeas to
11 nays (Vote No. 428), Senate agreed to McConnell
motion to concur in the amendment of the House
to the amendment of the Senate to H.R. 1158, to
authorize cyber incident response teams at the De-
partment of Homeland Security, after taking action
on the following motions and amendments proposed
thereto: Pages S7192–93
Withdrawn:
McConnell motion to concur in the amendment of
the House to the amendment of the Senate to the
bill, with McConnell Amendment No. 1263 (to the
House amendment to the Senate amendment), to
change the enactment date. Page S7192
McConnell Amendment No. 1264 (to Amend-
ment No. 1263), of a perfecting nature, fell when
McConnell motion to concur in the amendment of
the House to the amendment of the Senate to the
bill, with McConnell Amendment No. 1263 (to the
House amendment to the Senate amendment) (listed
above) was withdrawn. Page S7192
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:10 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D19DE9.REC D19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1409
December 19, 2019
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 77 yeas to 16 nays (Vote No. 427), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on McConnell motion to con-
cur in the amendment of the House to the amend-
ment of the Senate to the bill. Pages S7192–93
McConnell motion to refer the message of the
House on the bill to the Committee on Appropria-
tions, with instructions, McConnell Amendment No.
1265, to change the enactment date, fell when clo-
ture was invoked on McConnell motion to concur in
the amendment of the House to the amendment of
the Senate to the bill. Page S7192
McConnell Amendment No. 1266 (the instruc-
tions (Amendment No. 1265) of the motion to
refer), of a perfecting nature, fell when McConnell
motion to refer the message of the House on the bill
to the Committee on Appropriations, with instruc-
tions, McConnell Amendment No. 1265 (listed
above) fell. Page S7192
McConnell Amendment No. 1267 (to Amend-
ment No. 1266), of a perfecting nature, fell when
McConnell Amendment No. 1266 (the instructions
(Amendment No. 1265) of the motion to refer) (list-
ed above) fell. Page S7192
Appointments:
United States-China Economic and Security Re-
view Commission: The Chair announced, on behalf
of the Majority Leader, pursuant to the provisions of
Public Law 106–398, as amended by Public Law
108–7, and in consultation with the Chairmen of the
Senate Committee on Armed Services and the Senate
Committee on Finance, the appointment of the fol-
lowing individuals to serve as a member of the
United States-China Economic and Security Review
Commission: Roy Kamphausen of Connecticut for a
term expiring December 31, 2021 (reappointment)
and The Honorable James M. Talent of Missouri for
a term expiring December 31, 2021 (reappoint-
ment). Page S7237
United States-China Economic and Security Re-
view Commission: The Chair announced, on behalf
of the Democratic Leader, pursuant to the provisions
of Public Law 106–398, as amended by Public Law
108–7, and in consultation with the Ranking Mem-
bers of the Senate Committee on Armed Services and
the Senate Committee on Finance, the appointment
of the following individual to serve as a member of
the United States-China Economic and Security Re-
view Commission: The Honorable Carte P. Goodwin
of West Virginia for a term beginning January 1,
2020 and expiring December 31, 2021 (reappoint-
ment). Page S7237
Signing Authority—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that Sen-
ator Portman be authorized to sign duly enrolled
bills or joint resolutions during today’s session of the
Senate. Page S7225
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that Senator McConnell be authorized to sign
duly enrolled bills or joint resolutions through Mon-
day, December 23, 2019. Page S7237
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that Senator Hoeven be authorized to sign
duly enrolled bills or joint resolutions during today’s
session of the Senate. Page S7240
Pro Forma Sessions—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
Senate adjourn, to then convene for pro forma ses-
sions only, with no business being conducted on the
following dates and times, and that following each
pro forma session, the Senate adjourn until the next
pro forma session: Monday, December 23, 2019, at
10 a.m.; Thursday, December 26, 2019, at 3:15
p.m.; Monday, December 30, 2019, at 2 p.m.;
Thursday, January 2, 2020, at 6:30 p.m.; and that
when the Senate adjourns on Thursday, January 2,
2020, it next convene at 12 noon, on Friday, January
3, 2020, pursuant to the Constitution. Page S7237
Nominations in Status Quo—Agreement: A
unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing
that the list of nominations at the desk be kept in
status quo despite the sine die adjournment of the
first session of the 116th Congress. Page S7238
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 76 yeas to 17 nays (Vote No. EX. 416),
Anuraag Singhal, of Florida, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern District of Florida.
Pages S7186–88
By 87 yeas to 6 nays (Vote No. EX. 417), Karen
Spencer Marston, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania. Pages S7188–89
By 51 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. EX. 418), Dan-
iel Mack Traynor, of North Dakota, to be United
States District Judge for the District of North Da-
kota. Page S7189
By 75 yeas to 17 nays (Vote No. EX. 419), Jodi
W. Dishman, of Oklahoma, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma.
Page S7189
By 83 yeas to 9 nays (Vote No. EX. 420), John
M. Gallagher, of Pennsylvania, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsyl-
vania. Pages S7189–90
By 91 yeas to 3 nays (Vote No. EX. 421), Ber-
nard Maurice Jones II, of Oklahoma, to be United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:10 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D19DE9.REC D19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1410 December 19, 2019
States District Judge for the Western District of
Oklahoma. Page S7190
By 91 yeas to 3 nays (Vote No. EX. 422), Mary
Kay Vyskocil, of New York, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern District of New
York. Page S7190
By a unanimous vote of 94 yeas (Vote No. EX.
423), Kea Whetzal Riggs, of New Mexico, to be
United States District Judge for the District of New
Mexico. Pages S7190–91
By 66 yeas to 27 nays (Vote No. EX. 424), Rob-
ert J. Colville, of Pennsylvania, to be United States
District Judge for the Western District of Pennsyl-
vania. Page S7191
By 64 yeas to 29 nays (Vote No. EX. 425), Lewis
J. Liman, of New York, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of New York.
Page S7191
Gary Richard Brown, of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of New
York. Page S7191
Stephanie Dawkins Davis, of Michigan, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Michigan. Pages S7191–92
By 90 yeas to 3 nays (Vote No. EX. 426), Ste-
phen E. Biegun, of Michigan, to be Deputy Secretary
of State. Page S7192
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that the motion to invoke cloture on the
nomination of Stephen E. Biegun, of Michigan, to be
Deputy Secretary of State, be withdrawn. Page S7191
Michael Graham, of Kansas, to be a Member of
the National Transportation Safety Board for a term
expiring December 31, 2020.
David T. Fischer, of Michigan, to be Ambassador
to the Kingdom of Morocco.
Michelle A. Bekkering, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United
States Agency for International Development.
Morse H. Tan, of Illinois, to be Ambassador at
Large for Global Criminal Justice.
Roxanne Cabral, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to
the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
LaJuana S. Wilcher, of Kentucky, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural
Mortgage Corporation.
Kelley Eckels Currie, of Georgia, to be Ambas-
sador at Large for Global Women’s Issues.
Michael Graham, of Kansas, to be a Member of
the National Transportation Safety Board for a term
expiring December 31, 2025.
Leslie Meredith Tsou, of Virginia, to be Ambas-
sador to the Sultanate of Oman.
Dana S. Deasy, of Virginia, to be Chief Informa-
tion Officer of the Department of Defense.
Yuri Kim, of Guam, to be Ambassador to the Re-
public of Albania.
Carmen G. Cantor, of Puerto Rico, to be Ambas-
sador to the Federated States of Micronesia.
Lisa W. Hershman, of Indiana, to be Chief Man-
agement Officer of the Department of Defense.
Robert S. Gilchrist, of Florida, to be Ambassador
to the Republic of Lithuania.
Alina L. Romanowski, of Illinois, to be Ambas-
sador to the State of Kuwait.
Robert John Sander, of Virginia, to be General
Counsel of the Department of the Navy.
Kelly C. Degnan, of California, to be Ambassador
to Georgia.
Peter M. Haymond, of Virginia, to be Ambassador
to the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
Sean O’Donnell, of Maryland, to be Inspector
General, Environmental Protection Agency.
Thomas B. Chapman, of Maryland, to be a Mem-
ber of the National Transportation Safety Board for
a term expiring December 31, 2023.
J. Brett Blanton, of Virginia, to be Architect of
the Capitol for the term of ten years.
Routine lists in the Foreign Service. Page S7240
Messages from the House: Page S7206
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Pages S7170–76
Measures Read the First Time: Page S7206
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S7206
Executive Communications: Pages S7206–07
Petitions and Memorials: Page S7207
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S7208–11
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S7211–12
Additional Statements: Pages S7204–06
Amendments Submitted: Pages S7215–21
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S7221
Privileges of the Floor: Page S7222
Record Votes: Sixteen record votes were taken
today. (Total—428)
Pages S7176, S7186, S7188, S7189–93
Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and
adjourned at 8:37 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Monday,
December 23, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the
remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S7240.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:10 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D19DE9.REC D19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1411
December 19, 2019
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
IMPACTS OF WILDFIRE ON THE ELECTRIC
GRID
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the impacts of wild-
fire on electric grid reliability and efforts to mitigate
wildfire risk and increase grid resiliency, after receiv-
ing testimony from Carl Imhoff, Manager, Electricity
Market Sector, Pacific Northwest National Labora-
tory, Department of Energy; Scott Corwin, North-
west Public Power Association, Vancouver, Wash-
ington; William D. Johnson, Pacific Gas and Elec-
tric Company Corporation, San Francisco, California;
B. Don Russell, Texas A&M University Department
of Electric and Computer Engineering Power System
Automation Laboratory, College Station; and Michael
Wara, Stanford University Woods Institute for the
Environment Climate and Energy Policy Program,
Stanford, California.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 43 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 5490–5532; 1 private bill, H.R.
5533; and 3 resolutions, H. Res. 773–775, were in-
troduced. Pages H12289–90
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H12292–93
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H. Res. 772, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 5377) to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to modify the limitation on deduction
of State and local taxes, and for other purposes (H.
Rept. 116–357);
H.R. 5430, to implement the Agreement between
the United States of America, the United Mexican
States, and Canada attached as an Annex to the Pro-
tocol Replacing the North American Free Trade
Agreement (H. Rept. 116–358, Part 1);
Committee on Ethics. In the Matter of Allegations
Relating to Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers
(H. Rept. 116–359);
H.R. 5130, to amend the Small Business Act to
adjust the employment size standard requirements
for determining whether a manufacturing concern is
a small business concern, and for other purposes (H.
Rept. 116–360); and
H.R. 5146, to amend the Small Business Act to
require contracting officers to take a small business
concern’s past performance as part of a joint venture
into account when evaluating the small business con-
cern, and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–361).
Page H12289
Committee on Oversight and Reform—Commu-
nication: Read a letter from Chairwoman Maloney
wherein she notified the House of the initiation by
the Committee on Oversight and Reform of judicial
proceedings pursuant to H. Res. 497 and H. Res.
430. Page H12213
Committee Elections: The House agreed to H. Res.
773, electing certain Members to a certain standing
committee of the House of Representatives.
Page H12213
Recess: The House recessed at 1:29 p.m. and recon-
vened at 1:45 p.m. Page H12270
Recess: The House recessed at 1:45 p.m. and recon-
vened at 2:07 p.m. Page H12270
Restoring Tax Fairness for States and Localities
Act: The House passed H.R. 5377, to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the limi-
tation on deduction of State and local taxes, by a re-
corded vote of 218 ayes to 206 noes, Roll No. 700.
Pages H12214–21, H12270–84
Agreed to the Rice motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on Ways and Means with instruc-
tions to report the same back to the House forthwith
with an amendment, by a yea-and-nay vote of 388
yeas to 36 nays, Roll No. 699. Subsequently, Rep-
resentative Thompson (CA) reported the bill back to
the House with the amendment and the amendment
was agreed to. Pages H12270–84
Pursuant to the Rule, the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by the Committee
on Ways and Means now printed in the bill shall be
considered as adopted. Page H12214
H. Res. 772, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 5377) was agreed to by a yea-and-
nay vote of 227 yeas to 196 nays, Roll No. 698,
after the previous question was ordered by a yea-and-
nay vote of 227 yeas to 195 nays, Roll No. 697.
Pages H12214–21
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Imple-
mentation Act: The House passed H.R. 5430, to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:10 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D19DE9.REC D19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1412 December 19, 2019
implement the Agreement between the United
States of America, the United Mexican States, and
Canada attached as an Annex to the Protocol Replac-
ing the North American Free Trade Agreement, by
a yea-and-nay vote of 385 yeas to 41 nays, Roll No.
701. Pages H12221–H12269
Committee Resignation: Read a letter from Rep-
resentative Jordan wherein he resigned from the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence.
Page H12285
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence—
Appointment: The Chair announced the Speaker’s
appointment of the following Member of the House
to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence:
Representative Crawford, to rank after Representa-
tive Stewart. Page H12285
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified the Congress that the
national emergency with respect to the prevalence
and severity of human rights abuse and corruption
that was declared in Executive Order 13818 of De-
cember 20, 2017 is to continue in effect beyond De-
cember 20, 2019. Referred to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs and ordered to be printed (H. Doc.
116–87). Pages H12213–14
Senate Referrals: S. Con. Res. 31 was referred to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform. S. 153
was referred to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology and the Committee on Veterans Af-
fairs. S. 2774 was held at the desk. S. 3105 was held
at the desk. S. 1822 was held at the desk.
Page H12288
Senate Messages: Messages received from the Senate
today appears on pages H12269–70, H12285.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Four yea-and-nay votes and
one recorded vote developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H12220, H12220–21,
H12283, H12283–84, and H12284–85. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 4:51 p.m.
Committee Meetings
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
held a markup on H.R. 2575, the ‘‘AI in Govern-
ment Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3830, the ‘‘Taxpayers
Right-To-Know Act’’; H.R. 3883, the ‘‘Restore the
Partnership Act’’; H.R. 3941, the ‘‘Federal Risk and
Authorization Management Program Authorization
Act’’; H.R. 5214, the ‘‘Representative Payee Fraud
Prevention Act of 2019’’; S. 375, the ‘‘Payment In-
tegrity Information Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2454, to
designate the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 123 East Sharpfish Street in Rose-
bud, South Dakota, as the ‘‘Ben Reifel Post Office
Building’’; H.R. 2969, to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at 1401 1st
Street North in Winter Haven, Florida, as the ‘‘Al-
thea Margaret Daily Mills Post Office Building’’;
H.R. 3275, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 340 Wetmore Ave-
nue in Grand River, Ohio, as the ‘‘Lance Corporal
Andy ‘Ace’ Nowacki Post Office’’; H.R. 2246, to
designate the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 201 West Cherokee Street in
Brookhaven, Mississippi, as the ‘‘Deputy Donald
William Durr, Corporal Zach Moak, and Patrolman
James White Memorial Post Office Building’’; H.R.
3680, to designate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 415 North Main Street in
Henning, Tennessee as the ‘‘Paula Robinson and
Judy Spray Memorial Post Office Building’’; H.R.
3847, to designate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 117 West Poythress Street
in Hopewell, Virginia, as the ‘‘Reverend Curtis West
Harris Post Office Building’’; H.R. 3976, to des-
ignate the facility of the United States Postal Service
located at 12711 East Jefferson Avenue in Detroit,
Michigan, as the ‘‘Aretha Franklin Post Office Build-
ing’’; H.R. 4034, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 602 Pacific
Avenue in Bremerton, Washington, as the ‘‘John
Henry Turpin Post Office Building’’; H.R. 4200, to
designate the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 321 South 1st Street in Montrose,
Colorado, as the ‘‘Sergeant David Kinterknecht Post
Office’’; H.R. 4725, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 8585 Cri-
terion Drive in Colorado Springs, Colorado, as the
‘‘Chaplain (Capt.) Dale Goetz Memorial Post Office
Building’’; H.R. 4734, to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at 171 South
Maple Street in Dana, Indiana, as the ‘‘Ernest ‘Ernie’
T. Pyle Post Office’’; H.R. 4785, to designate the fa-
cility of the United States Postal Service located at
1305 U.S. Highway 90 West in Castroville, Texas,
as the ‘‘Lance Corporal Rhonald Dain Rairdan Post
Office’’; H.R. 4975, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 1201 Syca-
more Square Drive in Midlothian, Virginia, as the
‘‘Dorothy Braden Bruce Post Office Building’’; H.R.
5062, to designate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 9930 Conroy Windermere
Road in Windermere, Florida, as the ‘‘Officer Robert
German Post Office Building’’; H.R. 4981, to des-
ignate the facility of the United States Postal Service
located at 2505 Derita Avenue in Charlotte, North
Carolina, as the ‘‘Julius L. Chambers Civil Rights
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:10 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D19DE9.REC D19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1413
December 19, 2019
Memorial Post Office’’; H.R. 3005, to designate the
facility of the United States Postal Service located at
13308 Midland Road in Poway, California, as the
‘‘Ray Chavez Post Office Building’’; H.R. 4672, to
designate the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 21701 Stevens Creek Boulevard in
Cupertino, California, as the ‘‘Petty Officer 2nd
Class (SEAL) Matthew G. Axelson Post Office Build-
ing’’; H.R. 5037, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 3703 North
Main Street in Farmville, North Carolina, as the
‘‘Walter B. Jones, Jr. Post Office’’; H.R. 4279, to
designate the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 445 Main Street in Laceyville,
Pennsylvania, as the ‘‘Melinda Gene Piccotti Post
Office’’; H.R. 4794, to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 8320 13th
Avenue in Brooklyn, New York, as the ‘‘Mother
Frances Xavier Cabrini Post Office Building’’; H.R.
5384, to designate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 100 Crosby Street in Mans-
field, Louisiana, as the ‘‘Dr. C.O. Simpkins, Sr., Post
Office’’; and H.R. 3317, to permit the Scipio A.
Jones Post Office in Little Rock, Arkansas, to accept
and display a portrait of Scipio A. Jones, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 51: MAKING D.C. THE 51ST STATE
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
concluded a hearing entitled ‘‘H.R. 51: Making D.C.
the 51st State’’.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Energy held a markup on H.R. 2986,
the ‘‘BEST Act’’; H.R. 5374, the ‘‘Advanced Geo-
thermal Research and Development Act of 2019’’;
and H.R. 5428, the ‘‘Grid Modernization Research
and Development Act of 2019’’. H.R. 2986, H.R.
5374, and H.R. 5428 were forwarded to the full
Committee, as amended.
BUSINESS MEETING
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress: Full
Committee held a business meeting to consider rec-
ommendations to Encourage Civility and Bipartisan-
ship in Congress, Streamline Processes and Save Tax-
payer Dollars, and Increase the Quality of Con-
stituent Communication. The recommendations
passed.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D1384)
H.R. 5363, to reauthorize mandatory funding
programs for historically Black colleges and univer-
sities and other minority-serving institutions. Signed
on December 19, 2019. (Public Law 116–91)
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
DECEMBER 23, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:10 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D19DE9.REC D19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1414 December 19, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Monday, December 23
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
11 a.m., Monday, December 23
House Chamber
Program for Monday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 11 a.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Allen, Rick W., Ga., E1617
Babin, Brian, Tex., E1629
Balderson, Troy, Ohio, E1630
Brooks, Susan W., Ind., E1620, E1623
Carbajal, Salud O., Calif., E1619
Case, Ed, Hawaii, E1625, E1628
Cárdenas, Tony, Calif., E1626
Collins, Doug, Ga., E1630
Conaway, K. Michael, Tex., E1626
Connolly, Gerald E., Va., E1618, E1619, E1621, E1633,
E1634, E1635, E1637
Cox, TJ, Calif., E1634
Davis, Danny K., Ill., E1635
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E1621
Deutch, Theodore E., Fla., E1619
Dunn, Neal P., Fla., E1620, E1624
Evans, Dwight, Pa., E1627
Garamendi, John, Calif., E1624
Gibbs, Bob, Ohio, E1623
Hice, Jody B., Ga., E1634
Hill, J. French, Ark., E1623, E1627
Huffman, Jared, Calif., E1630
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E1631
Johnson, Dusty, S. Dak., E1617
Joyce, John, Pa., E1622
Katko, John, N.Y., E1633, E1635
Keating, William R., Mass., E1627
Kim, Andy, N.J., E1633
Kind, Ron, Wisc., E1625
Larson, John B., Conn., E1634
Levin, Mike, Calif., E1622
Lofgren, Zoe, Calif., E1631
Matsui, Doris O., Calif., E1618, E1628, E1633, E1635
McCollum, Betty, Minn., E1630, E1637
Miller, Carol D., W.Va. E1620
Moore, Gwen, Wisc., E1636
Nadler, Jerrold, N.Y., E1636
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E1619
Reschenthaler, Guy, Pa., E1622
Rice, Tom, N.C., E1617
Roby, Martha, Ala., E1617
Ruiz, Raul, Calif., E1624
Ryan, Tim, Ohio, E1623
Scott, Austin, Ga., E1618
Serrano, José E., N.Y., E1635
Sherrill, Mikie, N.J., E1637
Stanton, Greg, Ariz., E1636
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E1637
Timmons, William R., IV, S.C., E1629
Velázquez, Nydia M., N.Y., E1627
Visclosky, Peter J., Ind., E1617, E1622
Wenstrup, Brad R., Ohio, E1635
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:10 Dec 20, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D19DE9.REC D19DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
