Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H231
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2019 No. 3
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. MCGOVERN).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 8, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JAMES P.
MCGOVERN to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
CELEBRATING 100TH BIRTHDAY OF
HELEN BARBARA LIVINGSTON
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. MITCHELL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the 100th birthday of
Helen Barbara Livingston, who lives in
Macomb County.
A person experiences a great deal in
100 years of life. In 1919, when she was
born, Prohibition went into effect, the
pop-up toaster was invented, unem-
ployment was 1.4 percent—if you can
believe that—and the Grand Canyon
became a national park. Helen experi-
enced the Great Depression.
She has seen over 40 percent of the
history of this Nation. She has experi-
enced 18 U.S. Presidents, from Wood-
row Wilson, when she was born in 1919,
to President Trump. Suffice it to say,
she has seen a great deal of change in
national and local politics in her life.
She was born in Niagara, New York,
and came to Michigan at age 6 when
her dad got a job, amazingly enough, in
the auto industry at a Dodge plant in
Hamtramck, Michigan—the reason so
many people move to Michigan to build
cars and trucks for America.
Helen attended Hamtramck High
School and was an incredible athlete.
She was captain of the field hockey
team and played tennis, where she
never lost a match in 4 years.
During Helen’s senior year in high
school, Eleanor Roosevelt visited her
school to promote women in sports,
and Helen presented her with a bouquet
of roses. A short time later, she re-
ceived a handwritten letter from the
First Lady.
She met her husband working at
Parke-Davis labs, and for their first
date, they drove 5 hours to Hartwick
Pines. Now, there is an effort. That was
the start of a 59-year marriage.
After being a stay-at-home mom for
12 years, when her kids were a little
older, Helen started working at
Macomb County Youth Home for juve-
nile delinquents. She worked there
until she retired.
Helen has been an avid golfer. She
has two holes-in-one, most recently,
when she was 80 years old. There are
many golfers, including many golfers
in this Chamber, who are envious of
that achievement.
Even as she got older, Helen contin-
ued to seek out fun. A few years ago,
she was in a grocery store and ended up
starring in a national Mike’s Hard
Lemonade commercial. To be honest,
she didn’t realize what Mike’s Hard
Lemonade was.
I join her family, friends, and the en-
tire community in celebrating an in-
credible 100 years of life and wish her
many more.
f
REAL-LIFE STORIES OF MY CON-
STITUENTS AFFECTED BY THE
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. COURTNEY) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today, a really sad milestone of, really,
failure on day 18 of a partial govern-
ment shutdown that is affecting 25 per-
cent of the Federal Government.
I am rising today to share some of
the real-life stories of some of my con-
stituents in eastern Connecticut who
are affected by this shutdown, which,
again, today, we are now officially 1
day past the length of the 2013 shut-
down of 17 days. On Sunday, if this is
not fixed and ended, it will actually be
the longest shutdown in American his-
tory, surpassing the 1994 shutdown.
Mr. Speaker, today, I got a letter
from James of Waterford, Connecticut:
I am a State Department employee as-
signed to the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, Af-
ghanistan. I have been a DOS employee since
2003.
I live and work every day in a dangerous
environment in support of U.S. foreign pol-
icy. In Herat, Afghanistan, in 2013, I was shot
at and blown up in an attack by the Taliban
on the U.S. Consulate. In Belgrade, Serbia,
in 2008, I was trapped in the burning U.S.
Embassy during protests against Kosovo
independence while I protected and de-
stroyed classified information.
I support our government’s policies in dif-
ficult environments, and I expect my govern-
ment to meet their commitment to me and
my family.
Jeremy of Colchester, Connecticut,
who works for the Coast Guard:
Please work to pass a bill to fund the gov-
ernment, including employees’ salaries of
the Coast Guard, which are, again, part of
the Department of Homeland Security. My
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.000 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H232 January 8, 2019
family cannot go indefinitely without pay,
nor should they have to.
And he is absolutely right.
Kate of Chester, Connecticut:
I am a U.S. Department of Agriculture em-
ployee. I have been an employee of the USDA
for 15 years at the Plum Island Animal Dis-
ease Center.
That is off the coast of Long Island
Sound, where they do amazing research
in terms of animal health and public
health.
If there is not a resolution and end to this
shutdown soon, my financial situation will
force me to choose which bills to pay.
Robert of Stafford Springs, Con-
necticut, who actually works for a re-
gional craft brewery:
I depend on the ATF, the Alcohol, Tobacco,
and Firearms, to approve license applica-
tions, formulas and labels for beers—deli-
cious beers, by the way—that we brew and
sell. Every day that this passes without a
shutdown ending is another potential day of
lost sales.
Ethan of Niantic, Connecticut, who
works at the Coast Guard Academy,
where they are building the leaders of
tomorrow for this country. He has been
part of the faculty for the last 11 years.
Personally, without earning a paycheck,
we will find paying for groceries, mortgage,
utilities, childcare, and other essentials,
nearly impossible. As the government shut-
down lingers on, I become increasingly con-
cerned how it will impact my family.
Brian Krampovitas, I met with him
this morning in my office. He is one of
the air traffic controllers at Bradley
Field in Hartford, Connecticut. They
have 40 employees who are working
without pay, 10-hour shifts, making
sure that the planes take off and land
safely. And again, the stress level, be-
cause they have no support staff, is
growing more and more intense for
people who are doing incredibly impor-
tant work, guaranteeing the safety of
this country.
Again, just as a way of a recap, last
week the new Congress was sworn in.
Within 2 hours, we passed H.R. 21,
which fully funded the American Gov-
ernment, which would have ended this
shutdown last week, again, not with a
wild spending bill but one that had al-
ready passed in the U.S. Senate with
Republican votes.
All MITCH MCCONNELL has to do is
bring up that bill, which they have al-
ready passed, send it to the President,
and with the stroke of a pen, this
would end today; and these people who,
again, are doing the important work of
the American people would not have to
be going through the stress and aggra-
vation while they are doing great work
to protect our public safety, to rep-
resent our country overseas, and to
make sure that we have leaders of the
future through institutions like the
Coast Guard Academy.
Again, we are going to hear a speech
tonight. This thing apparently is going
to continue to go on. It is unnecessary,
it is pointless, and it is hurting the
American economy and the American
people.
Mr. President, sign H.R. 21.
We can have a debate about border
security. There are some things that
both sides will agree on in terms of
making sure that we get more immi-
gration judges to eliminate the asylum
case backlog, to boost enforcement of
port of entry where fentanyl and dan-
gerous drugs are coming through; and
we can have a serious debate about
whether or not it is sensors and drones,
boots on the ground to make sure that
those areas that are more remote get
more protection, but lengthening this
shutdown and hurting people who have
absolutely nothing to do with the
southern border is pointless and hurt-
ing people and hurting the U.S. econ-
omy.
f
HONORING OFFICER JOSEPH
SHINNERS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Utah (Mr. CURTIS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and sacrifice of
one of Utah’s finest. Master Officer Jo-
seph Shinners of the Provo Police De-
partment was, tragically, killed on
Saturday night in the line of duty.
At the time, he was responding to as-
sist in the arrest of a dangerous fugi-
tive with a history of violence towards
citizens and police officers when he was
struck by gunfire and died as a result
of his injuries.
Joe leaves behind his loving wife,
Kaylyn, and 1-year-old son, Logan.
Mr. Speaker, my heart aches every
time an officer is killed in the line of
duty, but this one is personal. When
Joe made his decision to work for
Provo PD, I was his mayor. In a very
real way, I feel responsible for his
training, his work at Provo City, and
his safety. I am deeply saddened by
this terrible news.
I stand here on the floor of the House
of Representatives, and I speak for the
entire Provo community when I say
that Joe is a true hero. He gave the ul-
timate sacrifice to protect us, and we
owe him and his family our deepest
gratitude.
The chief of the Provo Police Depart-
ment, Richard Ferguson, described him
as intelligent, honorable, hardworking,
and one of his all-stars. Chief Ferguson
described him as the officer you would
like to show up at your door in your
crucible moment.
He was born in Boston and graduated
high school in Springfield. He grew up
in a home that valued and respected
public service, with his siblings serving
as policemen and his father, a retired
fire captain.
During his 3 years of service at the
Provo Police Department, he worked
mostly in Provo’s thriving downtown
and on the SWAT team. He also served
on the bicycle patrol and as a field
training officer.
Most importantly, he was a good
man, husband, and father. One of his
fellow officers remembered that there
was a time that he arrested someone
and gave them a hug just as he was ar-
rested to offer them comfort. That was
the type of cop he was.
My wife, Sue, and I offer our deepest
sympathy to Provo PD, the family and
friends of Joe, and hope that they
know we will never forget their sac-
rifice—especially to Kaylyn and Logan.
Our brave policemen and -women
face serious potential danger every
time they say good-bye to their fami-
lies and leave their homes to go on pa-
trol, and they know that it is possibly
the last time they see them and it
could be their final good-bye.
I take this moment to express my
sincere appreciation to all of our Na-
tion’s first responders and police offi-
cers, but today, especially, to those of
Provo City. We love you, respect you,
and thank you.
f
DECEPTIVE PRACTICES AND
ELECTION DAY HOLIDAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. MCEACHIN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MCEACHIN. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise in support of H.R. 1, the For the
People Act, and the need for Federal
election reform.
Mr. Speaker, in the 2016 and 2018 elec-
tion cycles, we witnessed overt dis-
crimination, disinformation, and in-
timidation tactics aimed at
disenfranchising our most vulnerable
friends and neighbors.
Individuals and organizations inten-
tionally aimed to spread deceptive ma-
terial regarding the time and place of
elections, endorsements, and voter eli-
gibility. Moreover, there were also ex-
plicit attempts to intimidate voters at
the polls.
In my home, the Commonwealth of
Virginia, there were reports of a man
standing in front of a polling place
holding a Trump sign with a barking
German shepherd on the roof of his
truck, and yet that man broke no laws.
Such efforts can interfere with one of
our basic rights as Americans: the
right to vote. As such, I am pleased
that H.R. 1 includes language from a
bill I introduced in the last Congress
with then-Ranking Member NADLER,
the Deceptive Practices and Voter In-
timidation Prevention Act.
This language will prohibit the dis-
semination of false information regard-
ing Federal elections and prevent ef-
forts to hinder, interfere, or prevent a
person from voting, registering to vote,
or helping another person to vote or
register to vote. We, as Americans,
shall make it easier to vote, not hard-
er, and this language will further that
goal.
In the same vein, I am equally proud
that another bill has been included in
H.R. 1, the Election Day Holiday Act,
which I cointroduced with Congress-
woman ESHOO in the last Congress. As
the title suggests, this bill would direct
Federal agencies to treat election day
as a holiday and urge private employ-
ers to do the same.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.003 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H233
January 8, 2019
Going to the polls is among the most
democratic of American traditions.
Making election day a holiday would
honor that tradition, while helping
voters to continue it long into the fu-
ture.
I thank my friend and colleague,
Congressman SARBANES, for intro-
ducing this historic bill. I thank all of
the many Members and stakeholders
who have helped shape this bill and
who have seen fit to support the meas-
ures I have described.
As the name indicates, this bill is for
the people, and I look forward to the
day when we do the people’s work and
pass it.
f
b 1215
THE CRISIS ON OUR SOUTHERN
BORDER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, the
crisis on our southern border is very
real. When I took the oath to represent
the big First District of Kansas, it be-
came my responsibility to put our citi-
zens and their security first. Without
secure borders, we cannot ensure our
Nation’s safety, period.
We have tens of thousands of immi-
grants filling our entryways every
month and, in result; drugs, criminals,
and violence spilling into our country.
I challenge all my colleagues that are
denying this crisis exists to go and see
our southern border firsthand, as I did,
and it was quite an eye-opening mo-
ment.
Last year alone, there were 1.7 mil-
lion pounds of narcotics—let me say
that again—1.7 million pounds of nar-
cotics seized by Customs and Border
Patrol. Seventeen thousand adults
with existing criminal records at-
tempted to enter our southern border;
that is over 40 per day.
But perhaps, Mr. Speaker, the most
eye-opening of all, we are now aver-
aging over 1,000 illegal and inadmis-
sible people per day. That is in 1 day,
over 1,000 people.
The $5.7 billion the President is ask-
ing for is an investment of taxpayer
dollars that will pay off for decades.
The fact that some of my colleagues
are blatantly ignoring that walls along
the border work is intellectually dis-
honest. According to DHS and U.S.
Border Patrol, illegal trafficking has
dropped more than 90 percent in places
where walls and barriers were built.
It is embarrassing that, even with
this evidence, my friends on the other
side of the aisle shut down the govern-
ment because this Congress cannot do
its most basic duty to do its job and
prioritize our country’s safety by fund-
ing initiatives that we know for a fact
work.
I agree, though, that we cannot stop
at border security alone. It is crucial
that we also address and fix our very
broken immigration system and allow
hardworking migrants who want to
work hard and raise their families in
the United States to come.
There is a right way to do this. There
is a win-win-win opportunity. There is
a win for border security; there is a win
for immigration policy overhaul; and
there is a win to reopen the small por-
tion of government which is closed.
I am continually frustrated by the
narrative that we can’t win for all
American parties here in these negotia-
tions. This is an opportune moment to
quit kicking the can down the road and
actually work together to couple bor-
der security priorities with long-term
immigration fixes.
As we enter the 17th day of this gov-
ernment shutdown, I will continue to
stand for a secure America and hope
my colleagues choose an open govern-
ment over open borders.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 18
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. BUTTERFIELD) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Eternal God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
We pause now in Your presence to ac-
knowledge our dependence on You.
We ask Your blessing upon the men
and women of this, the people’s House,
who are settling into new spaces and
committees here on Capitol Hill.
As the new session begins, help them
and, indeed, help us all to obey Your
law, to do Your will, and to walk in
Your way. Grant that they might be
good in thought, gracious in word, gen-
erous in deed, and great in spirit.
Make this a glorious day in which all
are glad to be alive and ready to serve
You.
May all that is done this day be done
for Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Speaker, pursu-
ant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote
on agreeing to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Speaker, I object
to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Kansas (Mr. Watkins)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. WATKINS led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE HON-
ORABLE G.K. BUTTERFIELD,
MEMBER OF CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Honorable G.K.
BUTTERFIELD, Member of Congress:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
January 7, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
The Capitol, Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI: On January 4, 2019,
you designated me to administer the oath of
office to Representative-elect WALTER B.
JONES of the Third District of the State of
North Carolina pursuant to House Resolu-
tion 22, One Hundred Sixteenth Congress.
Under such designation, I have the honor
to report that on January 4, 2019 at
Farmville, North Carolina, I administered
the oath of office to Mr. JONES. Mr. JONES
took the oath prescribed by 5 U.S.C. 3331. I
have delivered two copies of the oath, signed
by Mr. JONES, to the Clerk of the House of
Representatives.
Thank you very much.
Very truly yours,
G.K. BUTTERFIELD,
Member of Congress.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
clause 5(d) of rule XX, the Chair an-
nounces to the House that, in light of
the administration of the oath to the
gentleman from North Carolina, the
whole number of the House is 434.
f
IN SUPPORT OF UNIVERSAL
BACKGROUND CHECKS
(Mrs. MCBATH asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.004 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H234 January 8, 2019
Mrs. MCBATH. Mr. Speaker, 7 years
ago, my son was violently torn from
my life, a victim of gun violence, a vic-
tim of a person who had a gun who
should never have received one.
Today, I join my colleagues and
former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords
to prevent more families from facing
the horror and heartbreak wrought by
gun violence.
Later today, Congressman KING and
Congressman THOMPSON will introduce
bipartisan legislation to ensure that no
one is able to get a gun from an unli-
censed sale without a background
check. Background checks empower
law enforcement to keep guns out of
the hands of criminals and domestic
abusers. Quite simply, they save lives.
I am honored to cosponsor this bipar-
tisan legislation for my son, Jordan,
and for the safety of every family in
this country. I ask my fellow parents,
my fellow Members, and my fellow
Americans to stand with me today, in
support of universal background
checks. Together, we will make our
communities safer.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will remind all persons in the
gallery that they are here as guests of
the House and that any manifestation
of approval or disapproval of pro-
ceedings is in violation of the rules of
the House.
f
EXPRESSING GRATITUDE TO
FELLOW KANSANS
(Mr. WATKINS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Speaker, many
Kansans have followed the path from
military to political service, names
like Pompeo, Roberts, Dole, and Eisen-
hower.
I stand on the shoulders of giants. I
do so with humility and with gratitude
that the people of Kansas have be-
stowed upon me such an honor.
To my fellow Kansans: I won’t let
you down.
To my colleagues: We will have our
disagreements and our debates. We
should. But we should also maintain ci-
vility and integrity, and we should
work to make the government more ef-
ficient, more accountable, and more ef-
fective.
God bless the 116th Congress and the
great people of Kansas, and may God
bless the United States of America.
f
HARMFUL IMPACT OF THE
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Ms. PRESSLEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in opposition to the occupant of
the White House.
Mr. Trump, you took an oath, just as
I did 5 days ago, to protect and defend
the Constitution and the American
people. Sir, you dishonor that oath.
You devalue the life of the immigrant,
the worker, and the survivor. I see
right through you and so do the Amer-
ican people. This has nothing to do
with border security. Your shutdown,
another Trump-generated crisis, has
brought a tsunami of hurt on the
American people.
Today, I rise to lift the voices of the
unheard. I rise today on behalf of the
families concerned about feeding their
children because their WIC benefits
will run dry.
I rise today in solidarity with the
thousands of workers with calloused
hands and broken spirits working for
no pay.
I rise today in support of the survivor
fleeing violent hands, seeking safety,
only to find the shelter door locked be-
cause of your shutdown.
I rise today in support of the Amer-
ican people who believe in the promise
of this Nation and ask for honest pay
for an honest day’s work.
Today, I rise as one and I stand as
thousands.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President of the United States.
f
EXTENSION OF CHILD TAX CREDIT
TO PUERTO RICO
(Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico asked and was given permission to
address the House for 1 minute and to
revise and extend her remarks.)
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Mr. Speaker, today I introduced
the Child Tax Credit Equity for Puerto
Rico Act of 2019.
Under current law, in Puerto Rico,
the child tax credit only applies to
families who are raising three or more
children.
In comparison, families living in the
mainland are able to use this credit for
having even one or two children. Small
families consisting of one or two chil-
dren in Puerto Rico are excluded from
receiving this necessary benefit.
The purpose of the child tax credit is
to be a tool to help families offset the
expenses of raising children and raise
themselves out of poverty.
Mississippi has the highest poverty
level of any State. Puerto Rico’s pov-
erty rate, now at 45 percent, is 178 per-
cent higher than Mississippi.
According to the Census Bureau, the
lowest household income of Puerto
Rico is $19,000 a year, compared to
$43,000 in the State of Mississippi and
$61,000, average, in the whole mainland.
This proposal will help Puerto Rico’s
economy and benefit about 355,000 fam-
ilies and more than 404,000 children in
Puerto Rico.
I urge my colleagues to support and
pass this bill, and I thank Congressmen
JOSÉ SERRANO, FITZPATRICK, and DUFFY
for being original cosponsors of this
bill.
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO
UNITED STATES SEMIQUINCEN-
TENNIAL COMMISSION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to section 4 of the
United States Semiquincentennial
Commission Act of 2016 (Pub. L. 114–
196), and the order of the House of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, of the following Member
on the part of the House to the United
States Semiquincentennial Commis-
sion:
Mr. EVANS, Pennsylvania
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 10 min-
utes p.m.), House stood in recess.
f
b 1600
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. RASKIN) at 4 p.m.
f
ELECTING MEMBERS TO A CER-
TAIN STANDING COMMITTEE OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Democratic Caucus, I
offer a privileged resolution and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 26
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and are hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing standing committee of the House of
Representatives:
(1) COMMITTEE ON RULES.—Ms. MATSUI and
Mr. PERLMUTTER.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
MEDICAID EXTENDERS ACT OF 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 259) to extend the Medicaid
Money Follows the Person Rebalancing
demonstration, to extend protection
for Medicaid recipients of home and
community-based services against
spousal impoverishment, and for other
purposes, as amended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:42 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.007 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H235
January 8, 2019
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 259
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Medicaid
Extenders Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF MONEY FOLLOWS THE
PERSON REBALANCING DEM-
ONSTRATION.
(a) GENERAL FUNDING.—Section 6071(h) of
the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C.
1396a note) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(B) in subparagraph (E), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(F) subject to paragraph (3), $112,000,000
for fiscal year 2019.’’;
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Amounts made’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Subject to paragraph (3), amounts
made’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘September 30, 2016’’ and
inserting ‘‘September 30, 2021’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR FY 2019.—Funds ap-
propriated under paragraph (1)(F) shall be
made available for grants to States only if
such States have an approved MFP dem-
onstration project under this section as of
December 31, 2018.’’.
(b) FUNDING FOR QUALITY ASSURANCE AND
IMPROVEMENT; TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE; OVER-
SIGHT.—Section 6071(f) of the Deficit Reduc-
tion Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) is
amended by striking paragraph (2) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(2) FUNDING.—From the amounts appro-
priated under subsection (h)(1)(F) for fiscal
year 2019, $500,000 shall be available to the
Secretary for such fiscal year to carry out
this subsection.’’.
(c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 6071(b)
of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (42
U.S.C. 1396a note) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(10) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means the Secretary of Health and Human
Services.’’.
SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF PROTECTION FOR MED-
ICAID RECIPIENTS OF HOME AND
COMMUNITY-BASED SERVICES
AGAINST SPOUSAL IMPOVERISH-
MENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2404 of Public
Law 111–148 (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5 note) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘the 5-year period that begins
on January 1, 2014,’’ and inserting ‘‘the pe-
riod beginning on January 1, 2014, and ending
on March 31, 2019,’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—
(1) PROTECTING STATE SPOUSAL INCOME AND
ASSET DISREGARD FLEXIBILITY UNDER WAIVERS
AND PLAN AMENDMENTS.—Nothing in section
2404 of Public Law 111–148 (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5
note) or section 1924 of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5) shall be construed as
prohibiting a State from disregarding an in-
dividual’s spousal income and assets under a
State waiver or plan amendment described
in paragraph (2) for purposes of making de-
terminations of eligibility for home and
community-based services or home and com-
munity-based attendant services and sup-
ports under such waiver or plan amendment.
(2) STATE WAIVER OR PLAN AMENDMENT DE-
SCRIBED.—A State waiver or plan amendment
described in this paragraph is any of the fol-
lowing:
(A) A waiver or plan amendment to provide
medical assistance for home and community-
based services under a waiver or plan amend-
ment under subsection (c), (d), or (i) of sec-
tion 1915 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396n) or under section 1115 of such
Act (42 U.S.C. 1315).
(B) A plan amendment to provide medical
assistance for home and community-based
services for individuals by reason of being
determined eligible under section
1902(a)(10)(C) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1396a(a)(10)(C)) or by reason of section 1902(f)
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(f)) or otherwise
on the basis of a reduction of income based
on costs incurred for medical or other reme-
dial care under which the State disregarded
the income and assets of the individual’s
spouse in determining the initial and ongo-
ing financial eligibility of an individual for
such services in place of the spousal impov-
erishment provisions applied under section
1924 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r–5).
(C) A plan amendment to provide medical
assistance for home and community-based
attendant services and supports under sec-
tion 1915(k) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396n(k)).
SEC. 4. REDUCTION IN FMAP AFTER 2020 FOR
STATES WITHOUT ASSET
VERIFICATION PROGRAM.
Section 1940 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396w) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
‘‘(k) REDUCTION IN FMAP AFTER 2020 FOR
NON-COMPLIANT STATES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to a cal-
endar quarter beginning on or after January
1, 2021, the Federal medical assistance per-
centage otherwise determined under section
1905(b) for a non-compliant State shall be re-
duced—
‘‘(A) for calendar quarters in 2021 and 2022,
by 0.12 percentage points;
‘‘(B) for calendar quarters in 2023, by 0.25
percentage points;
‘‘(C) for calendar quarters in 2024, by 0.35
percentage points; and
‘‘(D) for calendar quarters in 2025 and each
year thereafter, by 0.5 percentage points.
‘‘(2) NON-COMPLIANT STATE DEFINED.—For
purposes of this subsection, the term ‘non-
compliant State’ means a State—
‘‘(A) that is one of the 50 States or the Dis-
trict of Columbia;
‘‘(B) with respect to which the Secretary
has not approved a State plan amendment
submitted under subsection (a)(2); and
‘‘(C) that is not operating, on an ongoing
basis, an asset verification program in ac-
cordance with this section.’’.
SEC. 5. MEDICAID IMPROVEMENT FUND.
Section 1941(b)(1) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1396w–1(b)(1)) is amended by
striking ‘‘$31,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$6,000,000’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. PALLONE) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New Jersey.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on H.R. 259.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express
my support for H.R. 259, the Medicaid
Extenders Act of 2019. This bill would
extend for 3 months the successful
Money Follows the Person demonstra-
tion and the spousal impoverishment
protections for home- and community-
based services recipients. These two
provisions have helped tens of thou-
sands of people remain in the commu-
nity with their families and friends
while receiving the healthcare and
other services that they need.
The MFP demonstration helps people
transition from institutional settings
to community-based settings so they
can live in their homes and maintain
their independence, and all of this is
possible because the demonstration
provides them access to the services in
their homes that they would otherwise
receive in an institution.
This is a widely used and successful
program. Currently, 43 States and the
District of Columbia participate. And
it has helped over 75,000 people transi-
tion from institutions to the commu-
nity.
I thank my colleagues, Representa-
tive DINGELL and Representative GUTH-
RIE, for their bipartisan efforts to pro-
tect this important program. I urge my
colleagues to support extending this
program as the Energy and Commerce
Committee works on a longer-term ex-
tension.
Mr. Speaker, I also support extending
the protections against spousal impov-
erishment for beneficiaries receiving
home- and community-based services.
These protections ensure that people
can receive the community-based serv-
ices they need and that their spouse
has enough income and assets to meet
their living expenses. This protection
expired at the end of last year, and it
is vital that we act quickly to reau-
thorize it.
Without this protection, individuals
may lose access to important services
or face unnecessary institutionaliza-
tion. This is a terrible choice for fami-
lies to make and one that we can pre-
vent by passing this bill. Similar to
MFP, this extension will give the com-
mittee time to work on a long-term so-
lution.
Mr. Speaker, both of these extensions
were passed as part of the continuing
resolution in the Senate in December.
Unfortunately, since then, a fight has
ensued over appropriations funding.
While it is my hope that the President
will drop his demand for an ineffective
and unnecessary wall, I do not want
these programs to be collateral damage
over that debate.
Both of these programs have bipar-
tisan support and must be extended
without delay. I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 259, the Medicaid Extend-
ers Act of 2019.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the
Medicaid Extenders Act of 2019, a bi-
partisan Medicaid package that moves
forward House priorities with respon-
sible offsets.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:44 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.010 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H236 January 8, 2019
The Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee worked to draft this critical
legislation before us today. This lan-
guage passed in the House of Rep-
resentatives in the last Congress as
part of the IMPROVE Act, but in the
other body they failed to send the bill
to the President’s desk. I urge my col-
leagues in both the House and the Sen-
ate to support this important bill.
The package extends funding for the
Money Follows the Person demonstra-
tion, an effort led by Representatives
BRETT GUTHRIE and DEBBIE DINGELL.
This Medicaid demonstration, which
was established in 2005, has enabled eli-
gible individuals in States across the
Nation to receive long-term care serv-
ices in their homes or other commu-
nity settings, rather than in institu-
tions or nursing homes. Not only does
this increase the comfort and the qual-
ity of life for many Medicaid bene-
ficiaries, but it has reduced hospital re-
admissions and saved money within the
Medicaid program.
The funding for this program has al-
ready expired, and a funding extension
is already long overdue. While we
would like to have extended the fund-
ing for longer, it was essential to get
an extension across the floor, even if it
is just for a small period of time.
A 3-month extension for the protec-
tion for Medicaid recipients of home-
and community-based services against
spousal impoverishment is also in-
cluded. This effort was championed by
Representatives FRED UPTON and
DEBBIE DINGELL. Our seniors are among
our most vulnerable citizens, and it is
programs like this one that help pro-
tect them from financial ruin.
This program specifically protects
married individuals requiring Med-
icaid-covered long-term services and
supports to ensure that they do not
have to deplete their financial re-
sources or bankrupt themselves in
order to become or remain Medicaid el-
igible to receive such services.
In an effort to be fiscally responsible,
this legislation includes several offsets
that make this package on net a saver.
One of those offsets will require
States to come into compliance with
the Supplemental Appropriations Act
of 2008 regarding Medicaid asset verifi-
cation programs. This 2008 law required
States to implement asset verification
programs in order to determine or re-
determine eligibility, and the Afford-
able Care Act required such programs
to be filed electronically.
Currently, only 33 States have oper-
ational programs. This provision will
bring the remaining States up to speed
by levying a penalty on States that do
not have a program in place by 2020.
This package contains must-pass provi-
sions that the Energy and Commerce
Committee has long fought to pass.
The provisions included in this legisla-
tion will improve access for Medicaid
beneficiaries, which is laudable and an
important goal. Not only are these pro-
visions imperative, but they are re-
sponsibly offset.
I particularly thank the Energy and
Commerce Committee staffer, Caleb
Graff, who has spent countless hours
negotiating and getting this package
to the floor. I support this legislation
and urge Members of the House and
Senate to do so as well.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
as much time as she may consume to
the gentlewoman from Michigan (Mrs.
DINGELL).
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for the recognition and
yielding me this time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
259, the Medicaid Extenders Act. Our
long-term care system is broken. Like
millions of Americans, I, too, am a pri-
mary caretaker for my husband, and I
meet people every single day. I often
say taking John to the doctor is like
attending a town hall meeting. While
we continue to work towards a much
needed overhaul of our long-term care
financing, we also need to build on and
protect existing programs.
The Medicaid Extenders Act includes
a 3-month extension of the highly suc-
cessful Money Follows the Person pro-
gram. This program provides grants to
States to help individuals voluntarily
transition from an institutional set-
ting to a community care setting.
Money Follows the Person is a win for
both the beneficiaries and the tax-
payers because the program has dem-
onstrated significant savings over the
years while bringing a real-time ben-
efit to people’s lives.
The Medicaid Extenders Act also ex-
tends spousal impoverishment protec-
tions for seniors in Medicaid. These im-
portant protections ensure that indi-
viduals are not forced to spend down
all of their resources, and too many go
bankrupt, just to get the care that
they need.
However, this bill is just a partial
victory. I do hope the House will pass
it. Both programs are extended for only
3 months. While this is enough to keep
these important programs alive for the
moment, we must pass long-term ex-
tensions of both programs as quickly
as possible.
I will soon be introducing bipartisan
legislation to do just that, and I look
forward to working with all of my col-
leagues this year on long-term exten-
sions of these critical programs. I urge
my colleagues to join me in supporting
H.R. 259.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ken-
tucky (Mr. GUTHRIE), the primary
sponsor of this bill.
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of the Medicaid Extenders Act of 2019.
The Medicaid Extenders Act of 2019 in-
cludes legislation that I worked on, the
EMPOWER Care Act, which will extend
the vital Money Follows the Person
program.
The Money Follows the Person pro-
gram allows certain Medicaid bene-
ficiaries, such as the elderly or individ-
uals with disabilities, to transition
from healthcare facilities to receiving
care in their own homes or commu-
nities, if they choose to do so. This pro-
gram empowers patients to choose the
care that makes the most sense for
them while saving taxpayers money.
Kentucky Transitions, which oper-
ates the Money Follows the Person in
my home State, has helped hundreds of
Kentuckians transition to receiving
care in their homes or their commu-
nities.
I thank Congresswoman DEBBIE DIN-
GELL for working so hard on this legis-
lation and working together on this bi-
partisan piece of legislation. I thank
the chairman’s kind words as he was
talking about this legislation. I en-
courage my colleagues to vote for this
bill.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, we have
no further speakers. We did pass this
bill in this House in December. I urge
all Members to support the bill as it
goes forward today.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I would
also ask that we support this bill on a
bipartisan basis without delay.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 259, the ‘‘Medicaid Extenders
Act of 2019’’ that extends the ‘‘Medicaid
Money Follows the Person’’ rebalancing dem-
onstration project.
The ‘‘Medicaid Money Follows the Person’’
demonstration project supports reintegration of
persons with special needs into their commu-
nities.
Since its creation in 1965, Medicaid has
been the largest source of medical and health-
related services for Americans with a low in-
come and limited resources.
Over 75,151 people with chronic conditions
and disabilities have transitioned from institu-
tions back into the community through ‘‘Money
Follows the Person’’ programs as of Decem-
ber 2016.
My home state of Texas was among the
first 30 states chosen to participate in the
‘‘Money Follows the Person’’ demonstration in
2007.
The ‘‘Money Follows the Person’’ dem-
onstration project has helped more than
10,000 individuals transition from institutional
to community-based services in the state of
Texas.
In the 18th Congressional District of Texas
there are 162 nursing homes and out of 162
nursing homes only 67 nursing homes accept
Medicaid.
43 percent of seniors in Houston, Texas
earn less than $30,000 per year.
Texas has the second largest number of in-
dividuals with disabilities of all the states and
the percentage of individuals with disabilities
in the state of Texas is 11.7 percent.
In the fiscal year of 2016, Health and
Human Services has budgeted over $16 mil-
lion in federal funding to help individuals tran-
sition out of nursing facilities, State Supported
Living Centers, Intermediate Care Facilities for
Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities and
other institutions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.011 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H237
January 8, 2019
The ‘‘Money Follows the Person’’ dem-
onstration project has helped states and the
federal government save money. From 2008
to 2013, it generated $978 million in reduced
Medicare and Medicaid costs after the first
year of transitioning participants to home- and
community-based care.
For these reasons, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 259.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PALLONE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 259, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PANDEMIC AND ALL-HAZARDS
PREPAREDNESS AND ADVANC-
ING INNOVATION ACT OF 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 269) to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under the Public Health Service
Act and the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act with respect to public
health security and all-hazards pre-
paredness and response, to clarify the
regulatory framework with respect to
certain nonprescription drugs that are
marketed without an approved drug ap-
plication, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 269
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness
and Advancing Innovation Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
DIVISION A—PANDEMIC AND ALL-HAZ-
ARDS PREPAREDNESS AND ADVANC-
ING INNOVATION
Sec. 100. References in division.
TITLE I—STRENGTHENING THE NA-
TIONAL HEALTH SECURITY STRATEGY
Sec. 101. National Health Security Strategy.
TITLE II—IMPROVING PREPAREDNESS
AND RESPONSE
Sec. 201. Improving benchmarks and stand-
ards for preparedness and re-
sponse.
Sec. 202. Amendments to preparedness and
response programs.
Sec. 203. Regional health care emergency
preparedness and response sys-
tems.
Sec. 204. Military and civilian partnership
for trauma readiness.
Sec. 205. Public health and health care sys-
tem situational awareness and
biosurveillance capabilities.
Sec. 206. Strengthening and supporting the
public health emergency rapid
response fund.
Sec. 207. Improving all-hazards preparedness
and response by public health
emergency volunteers.
Sec. 208. Clarifying State liability law for
volunteer health care profes-
sionals.
Sec. 209. Report on adequate national blood
supply.
Sec. 210. Report on the public health pre-
paredness and response capa-
bilities and capacities of hos-
pitals, long-term care facilities,
and other health care facilities.
TITLE III—REACHING ALL COMMUNITIES
Sec. 301. Strengthening and assessing the
emergency response workforce.
Sec. 302. Health system infrastructure to
improve preparedness and re-
sponse.
Sec. 303. Considerations for at-risk individ-
uals.
Sec. 304. Improving emergency preparedness
and response considerations for
children.
Sec. 305. National advisory committees on
disasters.
Sec. 306. Guidance for participation in exer-
cises and drills.
TITLE IV—PRIORITIZING A THREAT-
BASED APPROACH
Sec. 401. Assistant Secretary for Prepared-
ness and Response.
Sec. 402. Public Health Emergency Medical
Countermeasures Enterprise.
Sec. 403. Strategic National Stockpile.
Sec. 404. Preparing for pandemic influenza,
antimicrobial resistance, and
other significant threats.
Sec. 405. Reporting on the Federal Select
Agent Program.
TITLE V—INCREASING COMMUNICATION
IN MEDICAL COUNTERMEASURE AD-
VANCED RESEARCH AND DEVELOP-
MENT
Sec. 501. Medical countermeasure budget
plan.
Sec. 502. Material threat and medical coun-
termeasure notifications.
Sec. 503. Availability of regulatory manage-
ment plans.
Sec. 504. The Biomedical Advanced Research
and Development Authority
and the BioShield Special Re-
serve Fund.
Sec. 505. Additional strategies for com-
bating antibiotic resistance.
TITLE VI—ADVANCING TECHNOLOGIES
FOR MEDICAL COUNTERMEASURES
Sec. 601. Administration of counter-
measures.
Sec. 602. Updating definitions of other trans-
actions.
Sec. 603. Medical countermeasure master
files.
Sec. 604. Animal rule report.
Sec. 605. Review of the benefits of genomic
engineering technologies and
their potential role in national
security.
Sec. 606. Report on vaccines development.
Sec. 607. Strengthening mosquito abatement
for safety and health.
TITLE VII—MISCELLANEOUS
PROVISIONS
Sec. 701. Reauthorizations and extensions.
Sec. 702. Location of materials in the stock-
pile.
Sec. 703. Cybersecurity.
Sec. 704. Strategy and report.
Sec. 705. Technical amendments.
DIVISION B—OVER-THE-COUNTER MONO-
GRAPH SAFETY, INNOVATION, AND RE-
FORM
Sec. 1000. Short title; references in division.
TITLE I—OTC DRUG REVIEW
Sec. 1001. Regulation of certain nonprescrip-
tion drugs that are marketed
without an approved drug appli-
cation.
Sec. 1002. Misbranding.
Sec. 1003. Drugs excluded from the over-the-
counter drug review.
Sec. 1004. Treatment of Sunscreen Innova-
tion Act.
Sec. 1005. Annual update to Congress on ap-
propriate pediatric indication
for certain OTC cough and cold
drugs.
Sec. 1006. Technical corrections.
TITLE II—USER FEES
Sec. 2001. Short title; finding.
Sec. 2002. Fees relating to over-the-counter
drugs.
DIVISION A—PANDEMIC AND ALL-HAZ-
ARDS PREPAREDNESS AND ADVANCING
INNOVATION
SEC. 100. REFERENCES IN DIVISION.
Except as otherwise specified—
(1) amendments made by this division to a
section or other provision of law are amend-
ments to such section or other provision of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201
et seq.); and
(2) any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ contained
in this division shall be treated as referring
only to the provisions of this division.
TITLE I—STRENGTHENING THE NATIONAL
HEALTH SECURITY STRATEGY
SEC. 101. NATIONAL HEALTH SECURITY STRAT-
EGY.
Section 2802 (42 U.S.C. 300hh–1) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘2014’’ and inserting ‘‘2018’’;
and
(ii) by striking the second sentence and in-
serting the following: ‘‘Such National Health
Security Strategy shall describe potential
emergency health security threats and iden-
tify the process for achieving the prepared-
ness goals described in subsection (b) to be
prepared to identify and respond to such
threats and shall be consistent with the na-
tional preparedness goal (as described in sec-
tion 504(a)(19) of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002), the National Incident Management
System (as defined in section 501(7) of such
Act), and the National Response Plan devel-
oped pursuant to section 504 of such Act, or
any successor plan.’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting before the
period at the end of the second sentence the
following: ‘‘, and an analysis of any changes
to the evidence-based benchmarks and objec-
tive standards under sections 319C–1 and
319C–2’’; and
(C) in paragraph (3)—
(i) by striking ‘‘2009’’ and inserting ‘‘2022’’;
(ii) by inserting ‘‘(including gaps in the en-
vironmental health and animal health
workforces, as applicable), describing the
status of such workforce’’ after ‘‘gaps in such
workforce’’;
(iii) by striking ‘‘and identifying strate-
gies’’ and inserting ‘‘identifying strategies’’;
and
(iv) by inserting before the period at the
end ‘‘, and identifying current capabilities to
meet the requirements of section 2803’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and
investigation’’ and inserting ‘‘investigation,
and related information technology activi-
ties’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and
decontamination’’ and inserting ‘‘decon-
tamination, relevant health care services
and supplies, and transportation and disposal
of medical waste’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) Response to environmental hazards.’’;
(B) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘including mental health’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.005 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H238 January 8, 2019
and inserting ‘‘including pharmacies, mental
health facilities,’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (F), by inserting ‘‘or
exposures to agents that could cause a public
health emergency’’ before the period;
(C) in paragraph (5), by inserting ‘‘and
other applicable compacts’’ after ‘‘Com-
pact’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(9) ZOONOTIC DISEASE, FOOD, AND AGRI-
CULTURE.—Improving coordination among
Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial
entities (including through consultation
with the Secretary of Agriculture) to pre-
vent, detect, and respond to outbreaks of
plant or animal disease (including zoonotic
disease) that could compromise national se-
curity resulting from a deliberate attack, a
naturally occurring threat, the intentional
adulteration of food, or other public health
threats, taking into account interactions be-
tween animal health, human health, and ani-
mals’ and humans’ shared environment as di-
rectly related to public health emergency
preparedness and response capabilities, as
applicable.
‘‘(10) GLOBAL HEALTH SECURITY.—Assessing
current or potential health security threats
from abroad to inform domestic public
health preparedness and response capabili-
ties.’’.
TITLE II—IMPROVING PREPAREDNESS
AND RESPONSE
SEC. 201. IMPROVING BENCHMARKS AND STAND-
ARDS FOR PREPAREDNESS AND RE-
SPONSE.
(a) EVALUATING MEASURABLE EVIDENCE-
BASED BENCHMARKS AND OBJECTIVE STAND-
ARDS.—Section 319C–1 (42 U.S.C. 247d–3a) is
amended by inserting after subsection (j) the
following:
‘‘(k) EVALUATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of the Pandemic
and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing
Innovation Act of 2019 and every 2 years
thereafter, the Secretary shall conduct an
evaluation of the evidence-based benchmarks
and objective standards required under sub-
section (g). Such evaluation shall be sub-
mitted to the congressional committees of
jurisdiction together with the National
Health Security Strategy under section 2802,
at such time as such strategy is submitted.
‘‘(2) CONTENT.—The evaluation under this
paragraph shall include—
‘‘(A) a review of evidence-based bench-
marks and objective standards, and associ-
ated metrics and targets;
‘‘(B) a discussion of changes to any evi-
dence-based benchmarks and objective
standards, and the effect of such changes on
the ability to track whether entities are
meeting or making progress toward the goals
under this section and, to the extent prac-
ticable, the applicable goals of the National
Health Security Strategy under section 2802;
‘‘(C) a description of amounts received by
eligible entities described in subsection (b)
and section 319C–2(b), and amounts received
by subrecipients and the effect of such fund-
ing on meeting evidence-based benchmarks
and objective standards; and
‘‘(D) recommendations, as applicable and
appropriate, to improve evidence-based
benchmarks and objective standards to more
accurately assess the ability of entities re-
ceiving awards under this section to better
achieve the goals under this section and sec-
tion 2802.’’.
(b) EVALUATING THE PARTNERSHIP FOR
STATE AND REGIONAL HOSPITAL PREPARED-
NESS.—Section 319C–2(i)(1) (42 U.S.C. 247–
3b(i)(1)) is amended by striking ‘‘section
319C–1(g), (i), and (j)’’ and inserting ‘‘section
319C–1(g), (i), (j), and (k)’’.
SEC. 202. AMENDMENTS TO PREPAREDNESS AND
RESPONSE PROGRAMS.
(a) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT APPLICATIONS
FOR IMPROVING STATE AND LOCAL PUBLIC
HEALTH SECURITY.—Section 319C–1 (42 U.S.C.
247d–3a) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘, acting
through the Director of the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention,’’ after ‘‘the
Secretary’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)(2)(A)—
(A) in clause (vi), by inserting ‘‘, including
public health agencies with specific expertise
that may be relevant to public health secu-
rity, such as environmental health agen-
cies,’’ after ‘‘stakeholders’’;
(B) by redesignating clauses (vii) through
(ix) as clauses (viii) through (x);
(C) by inserting after clause (vi) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(vii) a description of how, as applicable,
such entity may integrate information to ac-
count for individuals with behavioral health
needs following a public health emergency;’’;
(D) in clause (ix), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘; and’’ and inserting a semicolon;
and
(E) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(xi) a description of how the entity will
partner with health care facilities, including
hospitals and nursing homes and other long-
term care facilities, to promote and improve
public health preparedness and response; and
‘‘(xii) a description of how, as appropriate
and practicable, the entity will include crit-
ical infrastructure partners, such as utility
companies within the entity’s jurisdiction,
in planning pursuant to this subparagraph to
help ensure that critical infrastructure will
remain functioning during, or return to func-
tion as soon as practicable after, a public
health emergency;’’.
(b) EXCEPTION RELATING TO APPLICATION OF
CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 319C–1(g) (42
U.S.C. 247d–3a(g)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (5)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘Beginning with fiscal year
2009’’ and inserting ‘‘Beginning with fiscal
year 2019’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (A)—
(I) by striking ‘‘for the immediately pre-
ceding fiscal year’’ and inserting ‘‘for either
of the 2 immediately preceding fiscal years’’;
and
(II) by striking ‘‘2008’’ and inserting ‘‘2018’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (6), by amending subpara-
graph (A) to read as follows:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The amounts described
in this paragraph are the following amounts
that are payable to an entity for activities
described in this section or section 319C–2:
‘‘(i) For no more than 1 of each of the first
2 fiscal years immediately following a fiscal
year in which an entity experienced a failure
described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of para-
graph (5), an amount equal to 10 percent of
the amount the entity was eligible to receive
for the respective fiscal year.
‘‘(ii) For no more than 1 of the first 2 fiscal
years immediately following the third con-
secutive fiscal year in which an entity expe-
rienced such a failure, in lieu of applying
clause (i), an amount equal to 15 percent of
the amount the entity was eligible to receive
for the respective fiscal year.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by paragraph (1) shall apply with re-
spect to cooperative agreements awarded on
or after the date of enactment of this Act.
(c) PARTNERSHIP FOR STATE AND REGIONAL
HOSPITAL PREPAREDNESS TO IMPROVE SURGE
CAPACITY.—Section 319C–2 (42 U.S.C. 247d–3b)
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘, acting through the As-
sistant Secretary for Preparedness and Re-
sponse,’’ after ‘‘The Secretary’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘preparedness for public
health emergencies’’ and inserting ‘‘pre-
paredness for, and response to, public health
emergencies in accordance with subsection
(c)’’;
(2) in subsection (b)(1)(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘partnership consisting of’’
and inserting ‘‘coalition that includes’’;
(B) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iv) one or more emergency medical serv-
ice organizations or emergency management
organizations; and’’;
(3) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ‘‘part-
nership’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘coalition’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(C), by striking ‘‘med-
ical preparedness’’ and inserting ‘‘prepared-
ness and response’’;
(4) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘partner-
ship’’ and inserting ‘‘coalition’’;
(5) in subsection (g)(2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Partnerships’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Coalitions’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘partnerships’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘coalitions’’; and
(C) by inserting ‘‘and response’’ after ‘‘pre-
paredness’’; and
(6) in subsection (i)(1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘An entity’’ and inserting
‘‘A coalition’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘such partnership’’ and in-
serting ‘‘such coalition’’.
(d) PUBLIC HEALTH SECURITY GRANTS AU-
THORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Section
319C–1(h)(1)(A) (42 U.S.C. 247d–3a(h)(1)(A)) is
amended by striking ‘‘$641,900,000 for fiscal
year 2014’’ and all that follows through the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘$685,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023 for
awards pursuant to paragraph (3) (subject to
the authority of the Secretary to make
awards pursuant to paragraphs (4) and (5)).’’.
(e) PARTNERSHIP FOR STATE AND REGIONAL
HOSPITAL PREPAREDNESS AUTHORIZATION OF
APPROPRIATIONS.—Section 319C–2(j) (42 U.S.C.
247d–3b(j)) is amended—
(1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as
follows:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(A) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For purposes of carrying out this section and
section 319C–3, in accordance with subpara-
graph (B), there is authorized to be appro-
priated $385,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2019 through 2023.
‘‘(B) RESERVATION OF AMOUNTS FOR RE-
GIONAL SYSTEMS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), of
the amount appropriated under subpara-
graph (A) for a fiscal year, the Secretary
may reserve up to 5 percent for the purpose
of carrying out section 319C–3.
‘‘(ii) RESERVATION CONTINGENT ON CONTIN-
UED APPROPRIATIONS FOR THIS SECTION.—If for
fiscal year 2019 or a subsequent fiscal year,
the amount appropriated under subpara-
graph (A) is such that, after application of
clause (i), the amount remaining for the pur-
pose of carrying out this section would be
less than the amount available for such pur-
pose for the previous fiscal year, the amount
that may be reserved under clause (i) shall
be reduced such that the amount remaining
for the purpose of carrying out this section
is not less than the amount available for
such purpose for the previous fiscal year.
‘‘(iii) SUNSET.—The authority to reserve
amounts under clause (i) shall expire on Sep-
tember 30, 2023.’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘paragraph
(1) for a fiscal year’’ and inserting ‘‘para-
graph (1)(A) for a fiscal year and not reserved
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H239
January 8, 2019
for the purpose described in paragraph
(1)(B)(i)’’; and
(3) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ‘‘para-
graph (1) and not reserved under paragraph
(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (1)(A) and not
reserved under paragraph (1)(B)(i) or (2)’’.
SEC. 203. REGIONAL HEALTH CARE EMERGENCY
PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE
SYSTEMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Part B of title III (42
U.S.C. 243 et seq.) is amended by inserting
after section 319C–2 the following:
‘‘SEC. 319C–3. GUIDELINES FOR REGIONAL
HEALTH CARE EMERGENCY PRE-
PAREDNESS AND RESPONSE SYS-
TEMS.
‘‘(a) PURPOSE.—It is the purpose of this
section to identify and provide guidelines for
regional systems of hospitals, health care fa-
cilities, and other public and private sector
entities, with varying levels of capability to
treat patients and increase medical surge ca-
pacity during, in advance of, and imme-
diately following a public health emergency,
including threats posed by one or more
chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear
agents, including emerging infectious dis-
eases.
‘‘(b) GUIDELINES.—The Assistant Secretary
for Preparedness and Response, in consulta-
tion with the Director of the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention, the Adminis-
trator of the Centers for Medicare & Med-
icaid Services, the Administrator of the
Health Resources and Services Administra-
tion, the Commissioner of Food and Drugs,
the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health
and Substance Use, the Assistant Secretary
of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the heads
of such other Federal agencies as the Sec-
retary determines to be appropriate, and
State, local, Tribal, and territorial public
health officials, shall, not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this section—
‘‘(1) identify and develop a set of guidelines
relating to practices and protocols for all-
hazards public health emergency prepared-
ness and response for hospitals and health
care facilities to provide appropriate patient
care during, in advance of, or immediately
following, a public health emergency, result-
ing from one or more chemical, biological,
radiological, or nuclear agents, including
emerging infectious diseases (which may in-
clude existing practices, such as trauma care
and medical surge capacity and capabilities),
with respect to—
‘‘(A) a regional approach to identifying
hospitals and health care facilities based on
varying capabilities and capacity to treat
patients affected by such emergency, includ-
ing—
‘‘(i) the manner in which the system will
coordinate with and integrate the partner-
ships and health care coalitions established
under section 319C–2(b); and
‘‘(ii) informing and educating appropriate
first responders and health care supply chain
partners of the regional emergency prepared-
ness and response capabilities and medical
surge capacity of such hospitals and health
care facilities in the community;
‘‘(B) physical and technological infrastruc-
ture, laboratory capacity, staffing, blood
supply, and other supply chain needs, taking
into account resiliency, geographic consider-
ations, and rural considerations;
‘‘(C) protocols or best practices for the
safety and personal protection of workers
who handle human remains and health care
workers (including with respect to protective
equipment and supplies, waste management
processes, and decontamination), sharing of
specialized experience among the health care
workforce, behavioral health, psychological
resilience, and training of the workforce, as
applicable;
‘‘(D) in a manner that allows for disease
containment (within the meaning of section
2802(b)(2)(B)), coordinated medical triage,
treatment, and transportation of patients,
based on patient medical need (including pa-
tients in rural areas), to the appropriate hos-
pitals or health care facilities within the re-
gional system or, as applicable and appro-
priate, between systems in different States
or regions; and
‘‘(E) the needs of children and other at-risk
individuals;
‘‘(2) make such guidelines available on the
internet website of the Department of Health
and Human Services in a manner that does
not compromise national security; and
‘‘(3) update such guidelines as appropriate,
including based on input received pursuant
to subsections (c) and (e) and information re-
sulting from applicable reports required
under the Pandemic and All-Hazards Pre-
paredness and Advancing Innovation Act of
2019 (including any amendments made by
such Act), to address new and emerging pub-
lic health threats.
‘‘(c) CONSIDERATIONS.—In identifying, de-
veloping, and updating guidelines under sub-
section (b), the Assistant Secretary for Pre-
paredness and Response shall—
‘‘(1) include input from hospitals and
health care facilities (including health care
coalitions under section 319C–2), State, local,
Tribal, and territorial public health depart-
ments, and health care or subject matter ex-
perts (including experts with relevant exper-
tise in chemical, biological, radiological, or
nuclear threats, including emerging infec-
tious diseases), as the Assistant Secretary
determines appropriate, to meet the goals
under section 2802(b)(3);
‘‘(2) consult and engage with appropriate
health care providers and professionals, in-
cluding physicians, nurses, first responders,
health care facilities (including hospitals,
primary care clinics, community health cen-
ters, mental health facilities, ambulatory
care facilities, and dental health facilities),
pharmacies, emergency medical providers,
trauma care providers, environmental health
agencies, public health laboratories, poison
control centers, blood banks, tissue banks,
and other experts that the Assistant Sec-
retary determines appropriate, to meet the
goals under section 2802(b)(3);
‘‘(3) consider feedback related to financial
implications for hospitals, health care facili-
ties, public health agencies, laboratories,
blood banks, tissue banks, and other entities
engaged in regional preparedness planning to
implement and follow such guidelines, as ap-
plicable; and
‘‘(4) consider financial requirements and
potential incentives for entities to prepare
for, and respond to, public health emer-
gencies as part of the regional health care
emergency preparedness and response sys-
tem.
‘‘(d) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—The Assist-
ant Secretary for Preparedness and Re-
sponse, in consultation with the Director of
the Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion and the Assistant Secretary of Labor for
Occupational Safety and Health, may pro-
vide technical assistance and consultation
toward meeting the guidelines described in
subsection (b).
‘‘(e) DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR RE-
GIONAL HEALTH CARE PREPAREDNESS AND RE-
SPONSE SYSTEMS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Assistant Secretary
for Preparedness and Response may establish
a demonstration project pursuant to the de-
velopment and implementation of guidelines
under subsection (b) to award grants to im-
prove medical surge capacity for all hazards,
build and integrate regional medical re-
sponse capabilities, improve specialty care
expertise for all-hazards response, and co-
ordinate medical preparedness and response
across State, local, Tribal, territorial, and
regional jurisdictions.
‘‘(2) SUNSET.—The authority under this
subsection shall expire on September 30,
2023.’’.
(b) GAO REPORT TO CONGRESS.—
(1) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Comp-
troller General of the United States (referred
to in this subsection as the ‘‘Comptroller
General’’) shall submit to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and
the Committee on Finance of the Senate and
the Committee on Energy and Commerce and
the Committee on Ways and Means of the
House of Representatives, a report on the ex-
tent to which hospitals and health care fa-
cilities have implemented the recommended
guidelines under section 319C–3(b) of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act (as added by sub-
section (a)), including an analysis and eval-
uation of any challenges hospitals or health
care facilities experienced in implementing
such guidelines.
(2) CONTENT.—The Comptroller General
shall include in the report under paragraph
(1)—
(A) data on the preparedness and response
capabilities that have been informed by the
guidelines under section 319C–3(b) of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act to improve regional
emergency health care preparedness and re-
sponse capability, including hospital and
health care facility capacity and medical
surge capabilities to prepare for, and respond
to, public health emergencies; and
(B) recommendations to reduce gaps in in-
centives for regional health partners, includ-
ing hospitals and health care facilities, to
improve capacity and medical surge capabili-
ties to prepare for, and respond to, public
health emergencies, consistent with sub-
section (a), which may include consideration
of facilities participating in programs under
section 319C–2 of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–3b) or in programs under
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Serv-
ices (including innovative health care deliv-
ery and payment models), and input from
private sector financial institutions.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out para-
graphs (1) and (2), the Comptroller General
shall consult with the heads of appropriate
Federal agencies, including—
(A) the Assistant Secretary for Prepared-
ness and Response;
(B) the Director of the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention;
(C) the Administrator of the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services;
(D) the Assistant Secretary for Mental
Health and Substance Use;
(E) the Assistant Secretary of Labor for
Occupational Safety and Health; and
(F) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS.—Section 319C–2(i)(1)
(42 U.S.C. 247d–3b(i)(1)) is amended by insert-
ing after the first sentence the following: ‘‘In
submitting reports under this paragraph, a
coalition shall include information on the
progress that the coalition has made toward
the implementation of section 319C–3 (or bar-
riers to progress, if any).’’.
(d) NATIONAL HEALTH SECURITY STRATEGY
INCORPORATION OF REGIONALIZED EMERGENCY
PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE.—Subpara-
graph (G) of section 2802(b)(3) (42 U.S.C.
300hh–1(b)(3)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(G) Optimizing a coordinated and flexible
approach to the emergency response and
medical surge capacity of hospitals, other
health care facilities, critical care, trauma
care (which may include trauma centers),
and emergency medical systems.’’.
(e) IMPROVING STATE AND LOCAL PUBLIC
HEALTH SECURITY.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H240 January 8, 2019
(1) STATE AND LOCAL SECURITY.—Section
319C–1(e) (42 U.S.C. 247d–3a(e)) is amended by
striking ‘‘, and local emergency plans.’’ and
inserting ‘‘, local emergency plans, and any
regional health care emergency preparedness
and response system established pursuant to
the applicable guidelines under section 319C–
3.’’.
(2) PARTNERSHIPS.—Section 319C–2(d)(1)(A)
(42 U.S.C. 247d–3b(d)(1)(A)) is amended—
(A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and in-
serting ‘‘;’’;
(B) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause
(iii); and
(C) by inserting after clause (i) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(ii) among one or more facilities in a re-
gional health care emergency system under
section 319C–3; and’’.
SEC. 204. MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PARTNERSHIP
FOR TRAUMA READINESS.
Title XII (42 U.S.C. 300d et seq.) is amended
by adding at the end the following new part:
‘‘PART I—MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PART-
NERSHIP FOR TRAUMA READINESS
GRANT PROGRAM
‘‘SEC. 1291. MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PARTNER-
SHIP FOR TRAUMA READINESS
GRANT PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) MILITARY TRAUMA TEAM PLACEMENT
PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Assistant Secretary for Pre-
paredness and Response and in consultation
with the Secretary of Defense, shall award
grants to not more than 20 eligible high-acu-
ity trauma centers to enable military trau-
ma teams to provide, on a full-time basis,
trauma care and related acute care at such
trauma centers.
‘‘(2) LIMITATIONS.—In the case of a grant
awarded under paragraph (1) to an eligible
high-acuity trauma center, such grant—
‘‘(A) shall be for a period of at least 3 years
and not more than 5 years (and may be re-
newed at the end of such period); and
‘‘(B) shall be in an amount that does not
exceed $1,000,000 per year.
‘‘(3) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Notwith-
standing section 1552 of title 31, United
States Code, or any other provision of law,
funds available to the Secretary for obliga-
tion for a grant under this subsection shall
remain available for expenditure for 100 days
after the last day of the performance period
of such grant.
‘‘(b) MILITARY TRAUMA CARE PROVIDER
PLACEMENT PROGRAM.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Assistant Secretary for Pre-
paredness and Response and in consultation
with the Secretary of Defense, shall award
grants to eligible trauma centers to enable
military trauma care providers to provide
trauma care and related acute care at such
trauma centers.
‘‘(2) LIMITATIONS.—In the case of a grant
awarded under paragraph (1) to an eligible
trauma center, such grant—
‘‘(A) shall be for a period of at least 1 year
and not more than 3 years (and may be re-
newed at the end of such period); and
‘‘(B) shall be in an amount that does not
exceed, in a year—
‘‘(i) $100,000 for each military trauma care
provider that is a physician at such eligible
trauma center; and
‘‘(ii) $50,000 for each other military trauma
care provider at such eligible trauma center.
‘‘(c) GRANT REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) DEPLOYMENT AND PUBLIC HEALTH EMER-
GENCIES.—As a condition of receipt of a grant
under this section, a grant recipient shall
agree to allow military trauma care pro-
viders providing care pursuant to such grant
to—
‘‘(A) be deployed by the Secretary of De-
fense for military operations, for training, or
for response to a mass casualty incident; and
‘‘(B) be deployed by the Secretary of De-
fense, in consultation with the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, for response to
a public health emergency pursuant to sec-
tion 319.
‘‘(2) USE OF FUNDS.—Grants awarded under
this section to an eligible trauma center
may be used to train and incorporate mili-
tary trauma care providers into such trauma
center, including incorporation into oper-
ational exercises and training drills related
to public health emergencies, expenditures
for malpractice insurance, office space, in-
formation technology, specialty education
and supervision, trauma programs, research,
and applicable license fees for such military
trauma care providers.
‘‘(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to affect any
other provision of law that preempts State
licensing requirements for health care pro-
fessionals, including with respect to military
trauma care providers.
‘‘(e) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) REPORT TO THE SECRETARY AND THE
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.—Each eligible trau-
ma center or eligible high-acuity trauma
center awarded a grant under subsection (a)
or (b) for a year shall submit to the Sec-
retary and the Secretary of Defense a report
for such year that includes information on—
‘‘(A) the number and types of trauma cases
managed by military trauma teams or mili-
tary trauma care providers pursuant to such
grant during such year;
‘‘(B) the ability to maintain the integra-
tion of the military trauma providers or
teams of providers as part of the trauma cen-
ter, including the financial effect of such
grant on the trauma center;
‘‘(C) the educational effect on resident
trainees in centers where military trauma
teams are assigned;
‘‘(D) any research conducted during such
year supported by such grant; and
‘‘(E) any other information required by the
Secretaries for the purpose of evaluating the
effect of such grant.
‘‘(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not less than
once every 2 years, the Secretary, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Defense,
shall submit a report to the congressional
committees of jurisdiction that includes in-
formation on the effect of placing military
trauma care providers in trauma centers
awarded grants under this section on—
‘‘(A) maintaining military trauma care
providers’ readiness and ability to respond to
and treat battlefield injuries;
‘‘(B) providing health care to civilian trau-
ma patients in urban and rural settings;
‘‘(C) the capability of trauma centers and
military trauma care providers to increase
medical surge capacity, including as a result
of a large-scale event;
‘‘(D) the ability of grant recipients to
maintain the integration of the military
trauma providers or teams of providers as
part of the trauma center;
‘‘(E) efforts to incorporate military trauma
care providers into operational exercises and
training and drills for public health emer-
gencies; and
‘‘(F) the capability of military trauma care
providers to participate as part of a medical
response during or in advance of a public
health emergency, as determined by the Sec-
retary, or a mass casualty incident.
‘‘(f) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this
part:
‘‘(1) ELIGIBLE HIGH-ACUITY TRAUMA CEN-
TER.—The term ‘eligible high-acuity trauma
center’ means a Level I trauma center that
satisfies each of the following:
‘‘(A) Such trauma center has an agreement
with the Secretary of Defense to enable mili-
tary trauma teams to provide trauma care
and related acute care at such trauma cen-
ter.
‘‘(B) At least 20 percent of patients treated
at such trauma center in the most recent 3-
month period for which data are available
are treated for a major trauma at such trau-
ma center.
‘‘(C) Such trauma center utilizes a risk-ad-
justed benchmarking system and metrics to
measure performance, quality, and patient
outcomes.
‘‘(D) Such trauma center is an academic
training center—
‘‘(i) affiliated with a medical school;
‘‘(ii) that maintains residency programs
and fellowships in critical trauma specialties
and subspecialties, and provides education
and supervision of military trauma team
members according to those specialties and
subspecialties; and
‘‘(iii) that undertakes research in the pre-
vention and treatment of traumatic injury.
‘‘(E) Such trauma center serves as a med-
ical and public health preparedness and re-
sponse leader for its community, such as by
participating in a partnership for State and
regional hospital preparedness established
under section 319C–2 or 319C–3.
‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE TRAUMA CENTER.—The term
‘eligible trauma center’ means a Level I, II,
or III trauma center that satisfies each of
the following:
‘‘(A) Such trauma center has an agreement
with the Secretary of Defense to enable mili-
tary trauma care providers to provide trau-
ma care and related acute care at such trau-
ma center.
‘‘(B) Such trauma center utilizes a risk-ad-
justed benchmarking system and metrics to
measure performance, quality, and patient
outcomes.
‘‘(C) Such trauma center demonstrates a
need for integrated military trauma care
providers to maintain or improve the trauma
clinical capability of such trauma center.
‘‘(3) MAJOR TRAUMA.—The term ‘major
trauma’ means an injury that is greater than
or equal to 15 on the injury severity score.
‘‘(4) MILITARY TRAUMA TEAM.—The term
‘military trauma team’ means a complete
military trauma team consisting of military
trauma care providers.
‘‘(5) MILITARY TRAUMA CARE PROVIDER.—
The term ‘military trauma care provider’
means a member of the Armed Forces who
furnishes emergency, critical care, and other
trauma acute care services (including a phy-
sician, surgeon, physician assistant, nurse,
nurse practitioner, respiratory therapist,
flight paramedic, combat medic, or enlisted
medical technician) or other military trau-
ma care provider as the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate.
‘‘(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
To carry out this section, there is authorized
to be appropriated $11,500,000 for each of fis-
cal years 2019 through 2023.’’.
SEC. 205. PUBLIC HEALTH AND HEALTH CARE
SYSTEM SITUATIONAL AWARENESS
AND BIOSURVEILLANCE CAPABILI-
TIES.
(a) FACILITIES, CAPACITIES, AND BIO-
SURVEILLANCE CAPABILITIES.—Section 319D
(42 U.S.C. 247d–4) is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘RE-
VITALIZING’’ and inserting ‘‘FACILITIES AND CA-
PACITIES OF’’;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘FACILITIES; CAPACITIES’’ and inserting ‘‘IN
GENERAL’’;
(B) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘and im-
proved’’ and inserting ‘‘, improved, and ap-
propriately maintained’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H241
January 8, 2019
(C) in paragraph (3), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘ex-
pand, enhance, and improve’’ and inserting
‘‘expand, improve, enhance, and appro-
priately maintain’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) STUDY OF RESOURCES FOR FACILITIES
AND CAPACITIES.—Not later than June 1, 2022,
the Comptroller General of the United States
shall conduct a study on Federal spending in
fiscal years 2013 through 2018 for activities
authorized under this subsection. Such study
shall include a review and assessment of ob-
ligations and expenditures directly related
to each activity under paragraphs (2) and (3),
including a specific accounting of, and delin-
eation between, obligations and expenditures
incurred for the construction, renovation,
equipping, and security upgrades of facilities
and associated contracts under this sub-
section, and the obligations and expenditures
incurred to establish and improve the situa-
tional awareness and biosurveillance net-
work under subsection (b), and shall identify
the agency or agencies incurring such obliga-
tions and expenditures.’’;
(3) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘NATIONAL’’ and inserting ‘‘ESTABLISHMENT
OF SYSTEMS OF PUBLIC HEALTH’’;
(B) in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting ‘‘im-
munization information systems,’’ after
‘‘centers,’’;
(C) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘develop a plan to, and’’
after ‘‘The Secretary shall’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘and in a form readily usa-
ble for analytical approaches’’ after ‘‘in a se-
cure manner’’; and
(D) by amending paragraph (3) to read as
follows:
‘‘(3) STANDARDS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of the Pan-
demic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Ad-
vancing Innovation Act of 2019, the Sec-
retary, in cooperation with health care pro-
viders, State, local, Tribal, and territorial
public health officials, and relevant Federal
agencies (including the Office of the Na-
tional Coordinator for Health Information
Technology and the National Institute of
Standards and Technology), shall, as nec-
essary, adopt technical and reporting stand-
ards, including standards for interoperability
as defined by section 3000, for networks
under paragraph (1) and update such stand-
ards as necessary. Such standards shall be
made available on the internet website of the
Department of Health and Human Services,
in a manner that does not compromise na-
tional security.
‘‘(B) DEFERENCE TO STANDARDS DEVELOP-
MENT ORGANIZATIONS.—In adopting and im-
plementing standards under this subsection
and subsection (c), the Secretary shall give
deference to standards published by stand-
ards development organizations and vol-
untary consensus-based standards entities.’’;
(4) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of the Pandemic and
All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization
Act of 2013, the Secretary’’ and inserting
‘‘The Secretary’’;
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, and improve as applica-
ble and appropriate,’’ after ‘‘shall establish’’;
(iii) by striking ‘‘of rapid’’ and inserting
‘‘of, rapid’’; and
(iv) by striking ‘‘such connectivity’’ and
inserting ‘‘such interoperability’’;
(B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as
follows:
‘‘(2) COORDINATION AND CONSULTATION.—In
establishing and improving the network
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) facilitate coordination among agen-
cies within the Department of Health and
Human Services that provide, or have the po-
tential to provide, information and data to,
and analyses for, the situational awareness
and biosurveillance network under para-
graph (1), including coordination among rel-
evant agencies related to health care serv-
ices, the facilitation of health information
exchange (including the Office of the Na-
tional Coordinator for Health Information
Technology), and public health emergency
preparedness and response; and
‘‘(B) consult with the Secretary of Agri-
culture, the Secretary of Commerce (and the
Director of the National Institute of Stand-
ards and Technology), the Secretary of De-
fense, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the
heads of other Federal agencies, as the Sec-
retary determines appropriate.’’;
(C) in paragraph (3)—
(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A)
through (E) as clauses (i) through (v), respec-
tively, and adjusting the margins accord-
ingly;
(ii) in clause (iv), as so redesignated—
(I) by inserting ‘‘immunization informa-
tion systems,’’ after ‘‘poison control,’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘and clinical laboratories’’
and inserting ‘‘, clinical laboratories, and
public environmental health agencies’’;
(iii) by striking ‘‘The network’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The network’’; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) REVIEW.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of the enactment of the Pandemic
and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing
Innovation Act of 2019 and every 6 years
thereafter, the Secretary shall conduct a re-
view of the elements described in subpara-
graph (A). Such review shall include a dis-
cussion of the addition of any elements pur-
suant to clause (v), including elements added
to advancing new technologies, and identify
any challenges in the incorporation of ele-
ments under subparagraph (A). The Sec-
retary shall provide such review to the con-
gressional committees of jurisdiction.’’;
(D) in paragraph (5)—
(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A)
through (D) as clauses (i) through (iv), re-
spectively, and adjusting the margins ac-
cordingly;
(ii) by striking ‘‘In establishing’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In establishing’’;
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) PUBLIC MEETING.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of the Pandemic
and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing
Innovation Act of 2019, the Secretary shall
convene a public meeting for purposes of dis-
cussing and providing input on the potential
goals, functions, and uses of the network de-
scribed in paragraph (1) and incorporating
the elements described in paragraph (3)(A).
‘‘(ii) EXPERTS.—The public meeting shall
include representatives of relevant Federal
agencies (including representatives from the
Office of the National Coordinator for Health
Information Technology and the National In-
stitute of Standards and Technology); State,
local, Tribal, and territorial public health of-
ficials; stakeholders with expertise in bio-
surveillance and situational awareness;
stakeholders with expertise in capabilities
relevant to biosurveillance and situational
awareness, such as experts in informatics
and data analytics (including experts in pre-
diction, modeling, or forecasting); and other
representatives as the Secretary determines
appropriate.
‘‘(iii) TOPICS.—Such public meeting shall
include a discussion of—
‘‘(I) data elements, including minimal or
essential data elements, that are voluntarily
provided for such network, which may in-
clude elements from public health and public
and private health care entities, to the ex-
tent practicable;
‘‘(II) standards and implementation speci-
fications that may improve the collection,
analysis, and interpretation of data during a
public health emergency;
‘‘(III) strategies to encourage the access,
exchange, and use of information;
‘‘(IV) considerations for State, local, Trib-
al, and territorial capabilities and infra-
structure related to data exchange and inter-
operability;
‘‘(V) privacy and security protections pro-
vided at the Federal, State, local, Tribal, and
territorial levels, and by nongovernmental
stakeholders; and
‘‘(VI) opportunities for the incorporation
of innovative technologies to improve the
network.’’; and
(iv) in subparagraph (A), as so designated
by clause (ii)—
(I) in clause (i), as so redesignated—
(aa) by striking ‘‘as determined’’ and in-
serting ‘‘as adopted’’; and
(bb) by inserting ‘‘and the National Insti-
tute of Standards and Technology’’ after
‘‘Office of the National Coordinator for
Health Information Technology’’;
(II) in clause (iii), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘; and’’ and inserting a semicolon;
(III) in clause (iv), as so redesignated, by
striking the period and inserting ‘‘; and’’;
and
(IV) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(v) pilot test standards and implementa-
tion specifications, consistent with the proc-
ess described in section 3002(b)(3)(C), which
State, local, Tribal, and territorial public
health entities may utilize, on a voluntary
basis, as a part of the network.’’;
(E) by redesignating paragraph (6) as para-
graph (7);
(F) by inserting after paragraph (5) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(6) STRATEGY AND IMPLEMENTATION
PLAN.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 18
months after the date of enactment of the
Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and
Advancing Innovation Act of 2019, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the congressional
committees of jurisdiction a coordinated
strategy and an accompanying implementa-
tion plan that—
‘‘(i) is informed by the public meeting
under paragraph (5)(B);
‘‘(ii) includes a review and assessment of
existing capabilities of the network and re-
lated infrastructure, including input pro-
vided by the public meeting under paragraph
(5)(B);
‘‘(iii) identifies and demonstrates the
measurable steps the Secretary will carry
out to—
‘‘(I) develop, implement, and evaluate the
network described in paragraph (1), utilizing
elements described in paragraph (3)(A);
‘‘(II) modernize and enhance biosurveil-
lance activities, including strategies to in-
clude innovative technologies and analytical
approaches (including prediction and fore-
casting for pandemics and all-hazards) from
public and private entities;
‘‘(III) improve information sharing, coordi-
nation, and communication among disparate
biosurveillance systems supported by the De-
partment of Health and Human Services, in-
cluding the identification of methods to im-
prove accountability, better utilize resources
and workforce capabilities, and incorporate
innovative technologies within and across
agencies; and
‘‘(IV) test and evaluate capabilities of the
interoperable network of systems to improve
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H242 January 8, 2019
situational awareness and biosurveillance
capabilities;
‘‘(iv) includes performance measures and
the metrics by which performance measures
will be assessed with respect to the measur-
able steps under clause (iii); and
‘‘(v) establishes dates by which each meas-
urable step under clause (iii) will be imple-
mented.
‘‘(B) ANNUAL BUDGET PLAN.—Not later than
2 years after the date of enactment of the
Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and
Advancing Innovation Act of 2019 and on an
annual basis thereafter, in accordance with
the strategy and implementation plan under
this paragraph, the Secretary shall, taking
into account recommendations provided by
the National Biodefense Science Board, de-
velop a budget plan based on the strategy
and implementation plan under this section.
Such budget plan shall include—
‘‘(i) a summary of resources previously ex-
pended to establish, improve, and utilize the
nationwide public health situational aware-
ness and biosurveillance network under para-
graph (1);
‘‘(ii) estimates of costs and resources need-
ed to establish and improve the network
under paragraph (1) according to the strat-
egy and implementation plan under subpara-
graph (A);
‘‘(iii) the identification of gaps and ineffi-
ciencies in nationwide public health situa-
tional awareness and biosurveillance capa-
bilities, resources, and authorities needed to
address such gaps; and
‘‘(iv) a strategy to minimize and address
such gaps and improve inefficiencies.’’;
(G) in paragraph (7), as so redesignated—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘(tak-
ing into account zoonotic disease, including
gaps in scientific understanding of the inter-
actions between human, animal, and envi-
ronmental health)’’ after ‘‘human health’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘and gaps in surveillance
programs’’ after ‘‘surveillance programs’’;
and
(II) by striking ‘‘; and’’ and inserting a
semicolon;
(iii) in subparagraph (C)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘, animal health organiza-
tions related to zoonotic disease,’’ after
‘‘health care entities’’; and
(II) by striking the period and inserting ‘‘;
and’’; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) provide recommendations to the Sec-
retary on policies and procedures to com-
plete the steps described in this paragraph in
a manner that is consistent with section
2802.’’; and
(H) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(8) SITUATIONAL AWARENESS AND BIO-
SURVEILLANCE AS A NATIONAL SECURITY PRI-
ORITY.—The Secretary, on a periodic basis as
applicable and appropriate, shall meet with
the Director of National Intelligence to in-
form the development and capabilities of the
nationwide public health situational aware-
ness and biosurveillance network.’’;
(5) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘environmental health
agencies,’’ after ‘‘public health agencies,’’;
and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘immunization pro-
grams,’’ after ‘‘poison control centers,’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking the pe-
riod and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding after subparagraph (C) the
following:
‘‘(D) an implementation plan that may in-
clude measurable steps to achieve the pur-
poses described in paragraph (1).’’; and
(C) by striking paragraph (5) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(5) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary
may provide technical assistance to States,
localities, Tribes, and territories or a consor-
tium of States, localities, Tribes, and terri-
tories receiving an award under this sub-
section regarding interoperability and the
technical standards set forth by the Sec-
retary.’’;
(6) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g)
as subsections (i) and (j), respectively; and
(7) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) PERSONNEL AUTHORITIES.—
‘‘(1) SPECIALLY QUALIFIED PERSONNEL.—In
addition to any other personnel authorities,
to carry out subsections (b) and (c), the Sec-
retary may—
‘‘(A) appoint highly qualified individuals
to scientific or professional positions at the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
not to exceed 30 such employees at any time
(specific to positions authorized by this sub-
section), with expertise in capabilities rel-
evant to biosurveillance and situational
awareness, such as experts in informatics
and data analytics (including experts in pre-
diction, modeling, or forecasting), and other
related scientific or technical fields; and
‘‘(B) compensate individuals appointed
under subparagraph (A) in the same manner
and subject to the same terms and condi-
tions in which individuals appointed under
9903 of title 5, United States Code, are com-
pensated, without regard to the provisions of
chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of
such title relating to classification and Gen-
eral Schedule pay rates.
‘‘(2) LIMITATIONS.—The Secretary shall ex-
ercise the authority under paragraph (1) in a
manner that is consistent with the limita-
tions described in section 319F–1(e)(2).
‘‘(g) TIMELINE.—The Secretary shall ac-
complish the purposes under subsections (b)
and (c) no later than September 30, 2023, and
shall provide a justification to the congres-
sional committees of jurisdiction for any
missed or delayed implementation of meas-
urable steps identified under subsection
(c)(6)(A)(iii).
‘‘(h) INDEPENDENT EVALUATION.—Not later
than 3 years after the date of enactment of
the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness
and Advancing Innovation Act of 2019, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall conduct an independent evaluation and
submit to the Secretary and the congres-
sional committees of jurisdiction a report
concerning the activities conducted under
subsections (b) and (c), and provide rec-
ommendations, as applicable and appro-
priate, on necessary improvements to the
biosurveillance and situational awareness
network.’’.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Subsection (i) of section 319D (42 U.S.C. 247d–
4), as redesignated by subsection (a)(6), is
amended by striking ‘‘$138,300,000 for each of
fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘$161,800,000 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023’’.
(c) BIOLOGICAL THREAT DETECTION RE-
PORT.—The Secretary of Health and Human
Services shall, in coordination with the Sec-
retary of Defense and the Secretary of Home-
land Security, not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, report to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
the Committee on Armed Services, and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,
the Committee on Armed Services, and the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs of the Senate on the state
of Federal biological threat detection ef-
forts, including the following:
(1) An identification of technological, oper-
ational, and programmatic successes and
failures of domestic detection programs sup-
ported by Federal departments and agencies
for intentionally introduced or accidentally
released biological threat agents and natu-
rally occurring infectious diseases.
(2) A description of Federal efforts to fa-
cilitate the exchange of information related
to the information described in paragraph (1)
among Federal departments and agencies
that utilize biological threat detection tech-
nology.
(3) A description of the capabilities of de-
tection systems in use by Federal depart-
ments and agencies including the capability
to—
(A) rapidly detect, identify, characterize,
and confirm the presence of biological threat
agents;
(B) recover live biological agents from col-
lection devices;
(C) determine the geographical distribu-
tion of biological agents;
(D) determine the extent of environmental
contamination and persistence of biological
agents; and
(E) provide advanced molecular diagnostics
to State, local, Tribal, and territorial public
health and other laboratories that support
biological threat detection activities.
(4) A description of Federal interagency co-
ordination related to biological threat detec-
tion.
(5) A description of efforts by Federal de-
partments and agencies that utilize biologi-
cal threat detection technology to collabo-
rate with State, local, Tribal, and territorial
public health laboratories and other users of
biological threat detection systems, includ-
ing collaboration regarding the development
of—
(A) biological threat detection require-
ments or standards;
(B) a standardized integration strategy;
(C) training requirements or guidelines;
(D) guidelines for a coordinated public
health response, including preparedness ca-
pabilities, and, as applicable, for coordina-
tion with public health surveillance systems;
and
(E) a coordinated environmental remedi-
ation plan, as applicable.
(6) Recommendations related to research,
advanced research, development, and pro-
curement for Federal departments and agen-
cies to improve and enhance biological
threat detection systems, including rec-
ommendations on the transfer of biological
threat detection technology among Federal
departments and agencies, as necessary and
appropriate.
SEC. 206. STRENGTHENING AND SUPPORTING
THE PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY
RAPID RESPONSE FUND.
Section 319 (42 U.S.C. 247d) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘or if
the Secretary determines there is the signifi-
cant potential for a public health emer-
gency, to allow the Secretary to rapidly re-
spond to the immediate needs resulting from
such public health emergency or potential
public health emergency’’ before the period;
and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘The Secretary shall plan
for the expedited distribution of funds to ap-
propriate agencies and entities.’’ after the
first sentence;
(B) by redesignating paragraph (2) as para-
graph (3);
(C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) USES.—The Secretary may use
amounts in the Fund established under para-
graph (1), to—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H243
January 8, 2019
‘‘(A) facilitate coordination between and
among Federal, State, local, Tribal, and ter-
ritorial entities and public and private
health care entities that the Secretary de-
termines may be affected by a public health
emergency or potential public health emer-
gency referred to in paragraph (1) (including
communication of such entities with rel-
evant international entities, as applicable);
‘‘(B) make grants, provide for awards,
enter into contracts, and conduct supportive
investigations pertaining to a public health
emergency or potential public health emer-
gency, including further supporting pro-
grams under section 319C–1, 319C–2, or 319C–3;
‘‘(C) facilitate and accelerate, as applica-
ble, advanced research and development of
security countermeasures (as defined in sec-
tion 319F–2), qualified countermeasures (as
defined in section 319F–1), or qualified pan-
demic or epidemic products (as defined in
section 319F–3), that are applicable to the
public health emergency or potential public
health emergency under paragraph (1);
‘‘(D) strengthen biosurveillance capabili-
ties and laboratory capacity to identify, col-
lect, and analyze information regarding such
public health emergency or potential public
health emergency, including the systems
under section 319D;
‘‘(E) support initial emergency operations
and assets related to preparation and deploy-
ment of intermittent disaster response per-
sonnel under section 2812 and the Medical
Reserve Corps under section 2813; and
‘‘(F) carry out other activities, as the Sec-
retary determines applicable and appro-
priate.’’; and
(D) by inserting after paragraph (3), as so
redesignated, the following:
‘‘(4) REVIEW.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of the Pandemic and
All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing In-
novation Act of 2019, the Secretary, in co-
ordination with the Assistant Secretary for
Preparedness and Response, shall conduct a
review of the Fund under this section and
provide recommendations to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate and the Committee on Energy and
Commerce and the Committee on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives on
policies to improve such Fund for the uses
described in paragraph (2).
‘‘(5) GAO REPORT.—Not later than 4 years
after the date of enactment of the Pandemic
and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing
Innovation Act of 2019, the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall—
‘‘(A) conduct a review of the Fund under
this section, including its uses and the re-
sources available in the Fund; and
‘‘(B) submit to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives a re-
port on such review, including recommenda-
tions related to such review, as applicable.’’;
and
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘rapidly respond to public
health emergencies or potential public
health emergencies and’’ after ‘‘used to’’;
and
(B) by striking ‘‘section.’’ and inserting
‘‘Act or funds otherwise provided for emer-
gency response.’’.
SEC. 207. IMPROVING ALL-HAZARDS PREPARED-
NESS AND RESPONSE BY PUBLIC
HEALTH EMERGENCY VOLUNTEERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 319I (42 U.S.C.
247d–7b) is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘HEALTH PROFESSIONS VOLUNTEERS’’ and in-
serting ‘‘VOLUNTEER HEALTH PROFESSIONAL’’;
(2) in subsection (a), by adding at the end
the following: ‘‘Such health care profes-
sionals may include members of the National
Disaster Medical System, members of the
Medical Reserve Corps, and individual health
care professionals.’’;
(3) in subsection (i), by adding at the end
the following: ‘‘In order to inform the devel-
opment of such mechanisms by States, the
Secretary shall make available information
and material provided by States that have
developed mechanisms to waive the applica-
tion of licensing requirements to applicable
health professionals seeking to provide med-
ical services during a public health emer-
gency. Such information shall be made pub-
licly available in a manner that does not
compromise national security.’’; and
(4) in subsection (k), by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through
2023’’.
(b) ALL-HAZARDS PUBLIC HEALTH EMER-
GENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE PLAN.—
Section 319C–1(b)(2)(A)(iv) (42 U.S.C. 247d–
3a(b)(2)(A)(iv)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(iv) a description of the mechanism the
entity will implement to utilize the Emer-
gency Management Assistance Compact, or
other mutual aid agreement, for medical and
public health mutual aid, and, as appro-
priate, the activities such entity will imple-
ment pursuant to section 319I to improve en-
rollment and coordination of volunteer
health care professionals seeking to provide
medical services during a public health
emergency, which may include—
‘‘(I) providing a public method of commu-
nication for purposes of volunteer coordina-
tion (such as a phone number);
‘‘(II) providing for optional registration to
participate in volunteer services during
processes related to State medical licensing,
registration, or certification or renewal of
such licensing, registration, or certification;
or
‘‘(III) other mechanisms as the State deter-
mines appropriate;’’.
SEC. 208. CLARIFYING STATE LIABILITY LAW FOR
VOLUNTEER HEALTH CARE PROFES-
SIONALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title II (42 U.S.C. 202 et
seq.) is amended by inserting after section
224 the following:
‘‘SEC. 225. HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS AS-
SISTING DURING A PUBLIC HEALTH
EMERGENCY.
‘‘(a) LIMITATION ON LIABILITY.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law, a health
care professional who is a member of the
Medical Reserve Corps under section 2813 or
who is included in the Emergency System for
Advance Registration of Volunteer Health
Professionals under section 319I and who—
‘‘(1) is responding—
‘‘(A) to a public health emergency deter-
mined under section 319(a), during the initial
period of not more than 90 days (as deter-
mined by the Secretary) of the public health
emergency determination (excluding any pe-
riod covered by a renewal of such determina-
tion); or
‘‘(B) to a major disaster or an emergency
as declared by the President under section
401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170) or under section 201 of the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1621) during the
initial period of such declaration;
‘‘(2) is alleged to be liable for an act or
omission—
‘‘(A) during the initial period of a deter-
mination or declaration described in para-
graph (1) and related to the treatment of in-
dividuals in need of health care services due
to such public health emergency, major dis-
aster, or emergency;
‘‘(B) in the State or States for which such
determination or declaration is made;
‘‘(C) in the health care professional’s ca-
pacity as a member of the Medical Reserve
Corps or a professional included in the Emer-
gency System for Advance Registration of
Volunteer Health Professionals under sec-
tion 319I; and
‘‘(D) in the course of providing services
that are within the scope of the license, reg-
istration, or certification of the professional,
as defined by the State of licensure, registra-
tion, or certification; and
‘‘(3) prior to the rendering of such act or
omission, was authorized by the State’s au-
thorization of deploying such State’s Emer-
gency System for Advance Registration of
Volunteer Health Professionals described in
section 319I or the Medical Reserve Corps es-
tablished under section 2813, to provide
health care services,
shall be subject only to the State liability
laws of the State in which such act or omis-
sion occurred, in the same manner and to the
same extent as a similar health care profes-
sional who is a resident of such State would
be subject to such State laws, except with re-
spect to the licensure, registration, and cer-
tification of such individual.
‘‘(b) VOLUNTEER PROTECTION ACT.—Nothing
in this section shall be construed to affect an
individual’s right to protections under the
Volunteer Protection Act of 1997.
‘‘(c) PREEMPTION.—This section shall su-
persede the laws of any State that would
subject a health care professional described
in subsection (a) to the liability laws of any
State other than the State liability laws to
which such individual is subject pursuant to
such subsection.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘health care professional’
means an individual licensed, registered, or
certified under Federal or State laws or reg-
ulations to provide health care services.
‘‘(2) The term ‘health care services’ means
any services provided by a health care pro-
fessional, or by any individual working
under the supervision of a health care profes-
sional, that relate to—
‘‘(A) the diagnosis, prevention, or treat-
ment of any human disease or impairment;
or
‘‘(B) the assessment or care of the health
of human beings.
‘‘(e) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—This section shall take
effect 90 days after the date of the enactment
of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Prepared-
ness and Advancing Innovation Act of 2019.
‘‘(2) APPLICATION.—This section shall apply
to a claim for harm only if the act or omis-
sion that caused such harm occurred on or
after the effective date described in para-
graph (1).’’.
(b) GAO STUDY.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall conduct a review of—
(1) the number of health care providers
who register under the Emergency System
for Advance Registration of Volunteer
Health Professionals under section 319I of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
247d–7b) in advance to provide services dur-
ing a public health emergency;
(2) the number of health care providers
who are credentialed to provide services dur-
ing the period of a public health emergency
declaration, including those who are
credentialed though programs established in
the Emergency System for Advance Reg-
istration of Volunteer Health Professionals
under such section 319I and those
credentialed by authorities within the State
in which the emergency occurred;
(3) the average time to verify the creden-
tials of a health care provider during the pe-
riod of a public health emergency declara-
tion, including the average time pursuant to
the Emergency System for Advance Reg-
istration of Volunteer Health Professionals
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:44 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H244 January 8, 2019
under such section 319I and for an individ-
ual’s credentials to be verified by an author-
ity within the State; and
(4) the Emergency System for Advance
Registration of Volunteer Health Profes-
sionals program in States, including whether
physician or medical groups, associations, or
other relevant provider organizations utilize
such program for purposes of volunteering
during public health emergencies.
SEC. 209. REPORT ON ADEQUATE NATIONAL
BLOOD SUPPLY.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall submit to
Congress a report containing recommenda-
tions related to maintaining an adequate na-
tional blood supply, including—
(1) challenges associated with the contin-
uous recruitment of blood donors (including
those newly eligible to donate);
(2) ensuring the adequacy of the blood sup-
ply in the case of public health emergencies;
(3) implementation of the transfusion
transmission monitoring system; and
(4) other measures to promote safety and
innovation, such as the development, use, or
implementation of new technologies, proc-
esses, and procedures to improve the safety
and reliability of the blood supply.
SEC. 210. REPORT ON THE PUBLIC HEALTH PRE-
PAREDNESS AND RESPONSE CAPA-
BILITIES AND CAPACITIES OF HOS-
PITALS, LONG-TERM CARE FACILI-
TIES, AND OTHER HEALTH CARE FA-
CILITIES.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall enter into an agreement with an appro-
priate entity to conduct a study regarding
the public health preparedness and response
capabilities and medical surge capacities of
hospitals, long-term care facilities, and
other health care facilities to prepare for,
and respond to, public health emergencies,
including natural disasters.
(2) CONSULTATION.—In conducting the
study under paragraph (1), the entity shall
consult with Federal, State, local, Tribal,
and territorial public health officials (as ap-
propriate), and health care providers and fa-
cilities with experience in public health pre-
paredness and response activities.
(3) EVALUATION.—The study under para-
graph (1) shall include—
(A) an evaluation of the current bench-
marks and objective standards, as applica-
ble, related to programs that support hos-
pitals, long-term care facilities, and other
health care facilities, and their effect on im-
proving public health preparedness and re-
sponse capabilities and medical surge capac-
ities, including the Hospital Preparedness
Program, the Public Health Emergency Pre-
paredness cooperative agreements, and the
Regional Health Care Emergency Prepared-
ness and Response Systems under section
319C–3 of the Public Health Service Act (as
added by section 203);
(B) the identification of gaps in prepared-
ness, including with respect to such bench-
marks and objective standards, such as those
identified during recent public health emer-
gencies, for hospitals, long-term care facili-
ties, and other health care facilities to ad-
dress future potential public health threats;
(C) an evaluation of coordination efforts
between the recipients of Federal funding for
programs described in subparagraph (A) and
entities with expertise in emergency power
systems and other critical infrastructure
partners during a public health emergency,
to ensure a functioning critical infrastruc-
ture, to the greatest extent practicable, dur-
ing a public health emergency;
(D) an evaluation of coordination efforts
between the recipients of Federal funding for
programs described in subparagraph (A) and
environmental health agencies with exper-
tise in emergency preparedness and response
planning for hospitals, long-term care facili-
ties, and other health care facilities; and
(E) an evaluation of current public health
preparedness and response capabilities and
medical surge capacities related to at-risk
individuals during public health emer-
gencies, including an identification of gaps
in such preparedness as they relate to such
individuals.
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The agreement under sub-
section (a) shall require the entity to submit
to the Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices and the congressional committees of ju-
risdiction, not later than 3 years after the
date of enactment of this Act, a report on
the results of the study conducted pursuant
to this section.
(2) CONTENTS.—The report under paragraph
(1) shall—
(A) describe the findings and conclusions of
the evaluation conducted pursuant to sub-
section (a); and
(B) provide recommendations for improv-
ing public health preparedness and response
capability and medical surge capacity for
hospitals, long-term care facilities, and
other health care facilities, including—
(i) improving the existing benchmarks and
objective standards for the Federal grant
programs described in subsection (a)(3)(A) or
developing new benchmarks and standards
for such programs; and
(ii) identifying best practices for improv-
ing public health preparedness and response
programs and medical surge capacity at hos-
pitals, long-term care facilities, and other
health care facilities, including rec-
ommendations for the evaluation under sub-
paragraphs (C) and (D) of subsection (a)(3).
TITLE III—REACHING ALL COMMUNITIES
SEC. 301. STRENGTHENING AND ASSESSING THE
EMERGENCY RESPONSE WORK-
FORCE.
(a) NATIONAL DISASTER MEDICAL SYSTEM.—
(1) STRENGTHENING THE NATIONAL DISASTER
MEDICAL SYSTEM.—Clause (ii) of section
2812(a)(3)(A) (42 U.S.C. 300hh–11(a)(3)(A)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(ii) be present at locations, and for lim-
ited periods of time, specified by the Sec-
retary on the basis that the Secretary has
determined that a location is at risk of a
public health emergency during the time
specified, or there is a significant potential
for a public health emergency.’’.
(2) REVIEW OF THE NATIONAL DISASTER MED-
ICAL SYSTEM.—Section 2812(b)(2) (42 U.S.C.
300hh–11(b)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(2) JOINT REVIEW AND MEDICAL SURGE CA-
PACITY STRATEGIC PLAN.—
‘‘(A) REVIEW.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of the Pandemic and
All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing In-
novation Act of 2019, the Secretary, in co-
ordination with the Secretary of Homeland
Security, the Secretary of Defense, and the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall conduct
a joint review of the National Disaster Med-
ical System. Such review shall include—
‘‘(i) an evaluation of medical surge capac-
ity, as described in section 2803(a);
‘‘(ii) an assessment of the available work-
force of the intermittent disaster response
personnel described in subsection (c);
‘‘(iii) the capacity of the workforce de-
scribed in clause (ii) to respond to all haz-
ards, including capacity to simultaneously
respond to multiple public health emer-
gencies and the capacity to respond to a na-
tionwide public health emergency;
‘‘(iv) the effectiveness of efforts to recruit,
retain, and train such workforce; and
‘‘(v) gaps that may exist in such workforce
and recommendations for addressing such
gaps.
‘‘(B) UPDATES.—As part of the National
Health Security Strategy under section 2802,
the Secretary shall update the findings from
the review under subparagraph (A) and pro-
vide recommendations to modify the policies
of the National Disaster Medical System as
necessary.’’.
(3) NOTIFICATION OF SHORTAGE.—Section
2812(c) (42 U.S.C. 300hh–11(c)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) NOTIFICATION.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Secretary deter-
mines the number of intermittent disaster-
response personnel of the National Disaster
Medical System is insufficient to address a
public health emergency or potential public
health emergency, the Secretary shall sub-
mit to the congressional committees of ju-
risdiction a notification detailing—
‘‘(A) the impact such shortage could have
on meeting public health needs and emer-
gency medical personnel needs during a pub-
lic health emergency; and
‘‘(B) any identified measures to address
such shortage.
‘‘(4) CERTAIN APPOINTMENTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that the number of intermittent dis-
aster response personnel within the National
Disaster Medical System under this section
is insufficient to address a public health
emergency or potential public health emer-
gency, the Secretary may appoint candidates
directly to personnel positions for intermit-
tent disaster response within such system.
The Secretary shall provide updates on the
number of vacant or unfilled positions with-
in such system to the congressional commit-
tees of jurisdiction each quarter for which
this authority is in effect.
‘‘(B) SUNSET.—The authority under this
paragraph shall expire on September 30,
2021.’’.
(4) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Section 2812(g) (42 U.S.C. 300hh–11(g)) is
amended by striking ‘‘$52,700,000 for each of
fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘$57,400,000 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023’’.
(b) VOLUNTEER MEDICAL RESERVE CORPS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 2813(a) (42 U.S.C.
42 U.S.C. 300hh–15(a)) is amended by striking
the second sentence and inserting ‘‘The Sec-
retary may appoint a Director to head the
Corps and oversee the activities of the Corps
chapters that exist at the State, local, Trib-
al, and territorial levels.’’.
(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Section 2813(i) (42 U.S.C. 300hh–15(i)) is
amended by striking ‘‘2014 through 2018’’ and
inserting ‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(c) STRENGTHENING THE EPIDEMIC INTEL-
LIGENCE SERVICE.—Section 317F (42 U.S.C.
Sec. 247b–7) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or preparedness and re-
sponse activities, including rapid response to
public health emergencies and significant
public health threats’’ after ‘‘conduct pre-
vention activities’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘$35,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$50,000’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ‘‘3
years’’ and inserting ‘‘2 years’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) by striking ‘‘For the purpose of car-
rying out this section’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For the purpose of car-
rying out this section, except as described in
paragraph (2)’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H245
January 8, 2019
‘‘(2) EPIDEMIC INTELLIGENCE SERVICE PRO-
GRAM.—For purposes of carrying out this sec-
tion with respect to qualified health profes-
sionals serving in the Epidemic Intelligence
Service, as authorized under section 317G,
there is authorized to be appropriated
$1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through
2023.’’.
(d) SERVICE BENEFIT FOR NATIONAL DIS-
ASTER MEDICAL SYSTEM VOLUNTEERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 2812(c) (42 U.S.C.
300hh–11(c)), as amended by subsection (a)(3),
is further amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(5) SERVICE BENEFIT.—Individuals ap-
pointed to serve under this subsection shall
be considered eligible for benefits under part
L of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control
and Safe Streets Act of 1968. The Secretary
shall provide notification to any eligible in-
dividual of any effect such designation may
have on other benefits for which such indi-
vidual is eligible, including benefits from
private entities.’’.
(2) PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER BENEFITS.—Sec-
tion 1204(9) of title I of the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34
U.S.C. 10284(9)) is amended—
(A) in subparagraph (C)(ii), by striking
‘‘or’’ at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the pe-
riod and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the
following:
‘‘(E) an individual appointed to the Na-
tional Disaster Medical System under sec-
tion 2812 of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 300hh–11) who is performing official
duties of the Department of Health and
Human Services, if those official duties are—
‘‘(i) related to responding to a public
health emergency or potential public health
emergency, or other activities for which the
Secretary of Health and Human Services has
activated such National Disaster Medical
System; and
‘‘(ii) determined by the Secretary of Health
and Human Services to be hazardous.’’.
(3) SUNSET.—The amendments made by
paragraphs (1) and (2) shall cease to have
force or effect on October 1, 2021.
(e) MISSION READINESS REPORT TO CON-
GRESS.—
(1) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of enactment of this section, the
Comptroller General of the United States
(referred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Comp-
troller General’’) shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions of the Senate and the Committee
on Energy and Commerce of the House of
Representatives, a report on the medical
surge capacity of the United States in the
event of a public health emergency, includ-
ing the capacity and capability of the cur-
rent health care workforce to prepare for,
and respond to, the full range of public
health emergencies or potential public
health emergencies, and recommendations to
address any gaps identified in such work-
force.
(2) CONTENTS.—The Comptroller General
shall include in the report under paragraph
(1)—
(A) the number of health care providers
who have volunteered to provide health care
services during a public health emergency,
including members of the National Disaster
Medical System, the Disaster Medical As-
sistant Teams, the Medical Reserve Corps,
and other volunteer health care professionals
in the verification network pursuant to sec-
tion 319I of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 247d–7b);
(B) the capacity of the workforce described
in subparagraph (A) to respond to a public
health emergency or potential public health
emergency, including the capacity to re-
spond to multiple concurrent public health
emergencies and the capacity to respond to a
nationwide public health emergency;
(C) the preparedness and response capabili-
ties and mission readiness of the workforce
described in subparagraph (A) taking into ac-
count areas of health care expertise and con-
siderations for at-risk individuals (as defined
in section 2802(b)(4)(B) of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300hh–1(b)(4)(B)));
(D) an assessment of the effectiveness of
efforts to recruit, retain, and train such
workforce; and
(E) identification of gaps that may exist in
such workforce and recommendations for ad-
dressing such gaps, the extent to which the
Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and
Response plans to address such gaps, and any
recommendations from the Comptroller Gen-
eral to address such gaps.
SEC. 302. HEALTH SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE TO
IMPROVE PREPAREDNESS AND RE-
SPONSE.
(a) COORDINATION OF PREPAREDNESS.—Sec-
tion 2811(b)(5) (42 U.S.C. 300hh–10(b)(5)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘Such logistical support shall include work-
ing with other relevant Federal, State, local,
Tribal, and territorial public health officials
and private sector entities to identify the
critical infrastructure assets, systems, and
networks needed for the proper functioning
of the health care and public health sectors
that need to be maintained through any
emergency or disaster, including entities ca-
pable of assisting with, responding to, and
mitigating the effect of a public health
emergency, including a public health emer-
gency determined by the Secretary pursuant
to section 319(a) or an emergency or major
disaster declared by the President under the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act or the National Emer-
gencies Act, including by establishing meth-
ods to exchange critical information and de-
liver products consumed or used to preserve,
protect, or sustain life, health, or safety, and
sharing of specialized expertise.’’.
(b) MANUFACTURING CAPACITY.—Section
2811(d)(2)(C) (42 U.S.C. 300hh–10(d)(2)(C)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘, and ancillary med-
ical supplies to assist with the utilization of
such countermeasures or products,’’ after
‘‘products’’.
(c) EVALUATION OF BARRIERS TO RAPID DE-
LIVERY OF MEDICAL COUNTERMEASURES.—
(1) RAPID DELIVERY STUDY.—The Assistant
Secretary for Preparedness and Response
may conduct a study on issues that have the
potential to adversely affect the handling
and rapid delivery of medical counter-
measures to individuals during public health
emergencies occurring in the United States.
(2) NOTICE TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 9
months after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Assistant Secretary for Pre-
paredness and Response shall notify the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate if the Assistant Secretary for
Preparedness and Response does not plan to
conduct the study under paragraph (1) and
shall provide such committees a summary
explanation for such decision.
(3) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 1
year after the Assistant Secretary for Pre-
paredness and Response conducts the study
under paragraph (1), such Assistant Sec-
retary shall submit a report to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate containing the findings of such
study.
SEC. 303. CONSIDERATIONS FOR AT-RISK INDI-
VIDUALS.
(a) AT-RISK INDIVIDUALS IN THE NATIONAL
HEALTH SECURITY STRATEGY.—Section
2802(b)(4)(B) (42 U.S.C. 300hh–1(b)(4)(B)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘this section and sections
319C–1, 319F, and 319L,’’ and inserting ‘‘this
Act,’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘special’’ and inserting ‘‘ac-
cess or functional’’.
(b) COUNTERMEASURE CONSIDERATIONS.—
Section 319L(c)(6) (42 U.S.C. 247d–7e(c)(6)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘elderly’’ and inserting
‘‘older adults’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘with relevant characteris-
tics that warrant consideration during the
process of researching and developing such
countermeasures and products’’ before the
period.
(c) BIOSURVEILLANCE OF EMERGING PUBLIC
HEALTH THREATS.—Section 2814 is amended—
(1) in paragraph (7), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
(2) in paragraph (8), by striking the period
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(9) facilitate coordination to ensure that,
in implementing the situational awareness
and biosurveillance network under section
319D, the Secretary considers incorporating
data and information from Federal, State,
local, Tribal, and territorial public health of-
ficials and entities relevant to detecting
emerging public health threats that may af-
fect at-risk individuals, such as pregnant and
postpartum women and infants, including
adverse health outcomes of such populations
related to such emerging public health
threats.’’.
SEC. 304. IMPROVING EMERGENCY PREPARED-
NESS AND RESPONSE CONSIDER-
ATIONS FOR CHILDREN.
Part B of title III (42 U.S.C. 243 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 319D the
following:
‘‘SEC. 319D–1. CHILDREN’S PREPAREDNESS UNIT.
‘‘(a) ENHANCING EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
FOR CHILDREN.—The Secretary, acting
through the Director of the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention (referred to in
this subsection as the ‘Director’), shall main-
tain an internal team of experts, to be
known as the Children’s Preparedness Unit
(referred to in this subsection as the ‘Unit’),
to work collaboratively to provide guidance
on the considerations for, and the specific
needs of, children before, during, and after
public health emergencies. The Unit shall in-
form the Director regarding emergency pre-
paredness and response efforts pertaining to
children at the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.
‘‘(b) EXPERTISE.—The team described in
subsection (a) shall include one or more pedi-
atricians, which may be a developmental-be-
havioral pediatrician, and may also include
behavioral scientists, child psychologists,
epidemiologists, biostatisticians, health
communications staff, and individuals with
other areas of expertise, as the Secretary de-
termines appropriate.
‘‘(c) DUTIES.—The team described in sub-
section (a) may—
‘‘(1) assist State, local, Tribal, and terri-
torial emergency planning and response ac-
tivities related to children, which may in-
clude developing, identifying, and sharing
best practices;
‘‘(2) provide technical assistance, training,
and consultation to Federal, State, local,
Tribal, and territorial public health officials
to improve preparedness and response capa-
bilities with respect to the needs of children,
including providing such technical assist-
ance, training, and consultation to eligible
entities in order to support the achievement
of measurable evidence-based benchmarks
and objective standards applicable to sec-
tions 319C–1 and 319C–2;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H246 January 8, 2019
‘‘(3) improve the utilization of methods to
incorporate the needs of children in planning
for and responding to a public health emer-
gency, including public awareness of such
methods;
‘‘(4) coordinate with, and improve, public-
private partnerships, such as health care
coalitions pursuant to sections 319C–2 and
319C–3, to address gaps and inefficiencies in
emergency preparedness and response efforts
for children;
‘‘(5) provide expertise and input during the
development of guidance and clinical rec-
ommendations to address the needs of chil-
dren when preparing for, and responding to,
public health emergencies, including pursu-
ant to section 319C–3; and
‘‘(6) carry out other duties related to pre-
paredness and response activities for chil-
dren, as the Secretary determines appro-
priate.’’.
SEC. 305. NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEES ON
DISASTERS.
(a) REAUTHORIZING THE NATIONAL ADVISORY
COMMITTEE ON CHILDREN AND DISASTERS.—
Section 2811A (42 U.S.C. 300hh–10a) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ‘‘, men-
tal and behavioral,’’ after ‘‘medical’’;
(2) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘15’’ and
inserting ‘‘25’’; and
(B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(2) REQUIRED NON-FEDERAL MEMBERS.—The
Secretary, in consultation with such other
heads of Federal agencies as may be appro-
priate, shall appoint to the Advisory Com-
mittee under paragraph (1) at least 13 indi-
viduals, including—
‘‘(A) at least 2 non-Federal professionals
with expertise in pediatric medical disaster
planning, preparedness, response, or recov-
ery;
‘‘(B) at least 2 representatives from State,
local, Tribal, or territorial agencies with ex-
pertise in pediatric disaster planning, pre-
paredness, response, or recovery;
‘‘(C) at least 4 members representing
health care professionals, which may include
members with expertise in pediatric emer-
gency medicine; pediatric trauma, critical
care, or surgery; the treatment of pediatric
patients affected by chemical, biological, ra-
diological, or nuclear agents, including
emerging infectious diseases; pediatric men-
tal or behavioral health related to children
affected by a public health emergency; or pe-
diatric primary care; and
‘‘(D) other members as the Secretary de-
termines appropriate, of whom—
‘‘(i) at least one such member shall rep-
resent a children’s hospital;
‘‘(ii) at least one such member shall be an
individual with expertise in schools or child
care settings;
‘‘(iii) at least one such member shall be an
individual with expertise in children and
youth with special health care needs; and
‘‘(iv) at least one such member shall be an
individual with expertise in the needs of par-
ents or family caregivers, including the par-
ents or caregivers of children with disabil-
ities.
‘‘(3) FEDERAL MEMBERS.—The Advisory
Committee under paragraph (1) shall include
the following Federal members or their des-
ignees (who may be nonvoting members, as
determined by the Secretary):
‘‘(A) The Assistant Secretary for Prepared-
ness and Response.
‘‘(B) The Director of the Biomedical Ad-
vanced Research and Development Author-
ity.
‘‘(C) The Director of the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention.
‘‘(D) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
‘‘(E) The Director of the National Insti-
tutes of Health.
‘‘(F) The Assistant Secretary of the Ad-
ministration for Children and Families.
‘‘(G) The Administrator of the Health Re-
sources and Services Administration.
‘‘(H) The Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
‘‘(I) The Administrator of the Administra-
tion for Community Living.
‘‘(J) The Secretary of Education.
‘‘(K) Representatives from such Federal
agencies (such as the Substance Abuse and
Mental Health Services Administration and
the Department of Homeland Security) as
the Secretary determines appropriate to ful-
fill the duties of the Advisory Committee
under subsections (b) and (c).
‘‘(4) TERM OF APPOINTMENT.—Each member
of the Advisory Committee appointed under
paragraph (2) shall serve for a term of 3
years, except that the Secretary may adjust
the terms of the Advisory Committee ap-
pointees serving on the date of enactment of
the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness
and Advancing Innovation Act of 2019, or ap-
pointees who are initially appointed after
such date of enactment, in order to provide
for a staggered term of appointment for all
members.
‘‘(5) CONSECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS; MAXIMUM
TERMS.—A member appointed under para-
graph (2) may serve not more than 3 terms
on the Advisory Committee, and not more
than 2 of such terms may be served consecu-
tively.’’;
(3) in subsection (e), by adding at the end
‘‘At least one meeting per year shall be an
in-person meeting.’’;
(4) by redesignating subsection (f) as sub-
section (g);
(5) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall
coordinate duties and activities authorized
under this section in accordance with section
2811D.’’; and
(6) in subsection (g), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2023’’.
(b) AUTHORIZING THE NATIONAL ADVISORY
COMMITTEE ON SENIORS AND DISASTERS.—Sub-
title B of title XXVIII (42 U.S.C. 300hh et
seq.) is amended by inserting after section
2811A the following:
‘‘SEC. 2811B. NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
ON SENIORS AND DISASTERS.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary, in
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland
Security and the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs, shall establish an advisory committee
to be known as the National Advisory Com-
mittee on Seniors and Disasters (referred to
in this section as the ‘Advisory Committee’).
‘‘(b) DUTIES.—The Advisory Committee
shall—
‘‘(1) provide advice and consultation with
respect to the activities carried out pursuant
to section 2814, as applicable and appro-
priate;
‘‘(2) evaluate and provide input with re-
spect to the medical and public health needs
of seniors related to preparation for, re-
sponse to, and recovery from all-hazards
emergencies; and
‘‘(3) provide advice and consultation with
respect to State emergency preparedness and
response activities relating to seniors, in-
cluding related drills and exercises pursuant
to the preparedness goals under section
2802(b).
‘‘(c) ADDITIONAL DUTIES.—The Advisory
Committee may provide advice and rec-
ommendations to the Secretary with respect
to seniors and the medical and public health
grants and cooperative agreements as appli-
cable to preparedness and response activities
under this title and title III.
‘‘(d) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with such other heads of agencies
as appropriate, shall appoint not more than
17 members to the Advisory Committee. In
appointing such members, the Secretary
shall ensure that the total membership of
the Advisory Committee is an odd number.
‘‘(2) REQUIRED MEMBERS.—The Advisory
Committee shall include Federal members or
their designees (who may be nonvoting mem-
bers, as determined by the Secretary) and
non-Federal members, as follows:
‘‘(A) The Assistant Secretary for Prepared-
ness and Response.
‘‘(B) The Director of the Biomedical Ad-
vanced Research and Development Author-
ity.
‘‘(C) The Director of the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention.
‘‘(D) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
‘‘(E) The Director of the National Insti-
tutes of Health.
‘‘(F) The Administrator of the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services.
‘‘(G) The Administrator of the Administra-
tion for Community Living.
‘‘(H) The Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
‘‘(I) The Under Secretary for Health of the
Department of Veterans Affairs.
‘‘(J) At least 2 non-Federal health care pro-
fessionals with expertise in geriatric medical
disaster planning, preparedness, response, or
recovery.
‘‘(K) At least 2 representatives of State,
local, Tribal, or territorial agencies with ex-
pertise in geriatric disaster planning, pre-
paredness, response, or recovery.
‘‘(L) Representatives of such other Federal
agencies (such as the Department of Energy
and the Department of Homeland Security)
as the Secretary determines necessary to ful-
fill the duties of the Advisory Committee.
‘‘(e) MEETINGS.—The Advisory Committee
shall meet not less frequently than bian-
nually. At least one meeting per year shall
be an in-person meeting.
‘‘(f) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall
coordinate duties and activities authorized
under this section in accordance with section
2811D.
‘‘(g) SUNSET.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Advisory Committee
shall terminate on September 30, 2023.
‘‘(2) EXTENSION OF COMMITTEE.—Not later
than October 1, 2022, the Secretary shall sub-
mit to Congress a recommendation on
whether the Advisory Committee should be
extended.’’.
(c) NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON INDI-
VIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES AND DISASTERS.—
Subtitle B of title XXVIII (42 U.S.C. 300hh et
seq.), as amended by subsection (b), is fur-
ther amended by inserting after section
2811B the following:
‘‘SEC. 2811C. NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
ON INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
AND DISASTERS.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary, in
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland
Security, shall establish a national advisory
committee to be known as the National Ad-
visory Committee on Individuals with Dis-
abilities and Disasters (referred to in this
section as the ‘Advisory Committee’).
‘‘(b) DUTIES.—The Advisory Committee
shall—
‘‘(1) provide advice and consultation with
respect to activities carried out pursuant to
section 2814, as applicable and appropriate;
‘‘(2) evaluate and provide input with re-
spect to the medical, public health, and ac-
cessibility needs of individuals with disabil-
ities related to preparation for, response to,
and recovery from all-hazards emergencies;
and
‘‘(3) provide advice and consultation with
respect to State emergency preparedness and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H247
January 8, 2019
response activities, including related drills
and exercises pursuant to the preparedness
goals under section 2802(b).
‘‘(c) MEMBERSHIP.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with such other heads of agencies
and departments as appropriate, shall ap-
point not more than 17 members to the Advi-
sory Committee. In appointing such mem-
bers, the Secretary shall ensure that the
total membership of the Advisory Com-
mittee is an odd number.
‘‘(2) REQUIRED MEMBERS.—The Advisory
Committee shall include Federal members or
their designees (who may be nonvoting mem-
bers, as determined by the Secretary) and
non-Federal members, as follows:
‘‘(A) The Assistant Secretary for Prepared-
ness and Response.
‘‘(B) The Administrator of the Administra-
tion for Community Living.
‘‘(C) The Director of the Biomedical Ad-
vanced Research and Development Author-
ity.
‘‘(D) The Director of the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention.
‘‘(E) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
‘‘(F) The Director of the National Insti-
tutes of Health.
‘‘(G) The Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
‘‘(H) The Chair of the National Council on
Disability.
‘‘(I) The Chair of the United States Access
Board.
‘‘(J) The Under Secretary for Health of the
Department of Veterans Affairs.
‘‘(K) At least 2 non-Federal health care
professionals with expertise in disability ac-
cessibility before, during, and after disasters,
medical and mass care disaster planning,
preparedness, response, or recovery.
‘‘(L) At least 2 representatives from State,
local, Tribal, or territorial agencies with ex-
pertise in disaster planning, preparedness,
response, or recovery for individuals with
disabilities.
‘‘(M) At least 2 individuals with a dis-
ability with expertise in disaster planning,
preparedness, response, or recovery for indi-
viduals with disabilities.
‘‘(d) MEETINGS.—The Advisory Committee
shall meet not less frequently than bian-
nually. At least one meeting per year shall
be an in-person meeting.
‘‘(e) DISABILITY DEFINED.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘disability’ has the
meaning given such term in section 3 of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
‘‘(f) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall
coordinate duties and activities authorized
under this section in accordance with section
2811D.
‘‘(g) SUNSET.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Advisory Committee
shall terminate on September 30, 2023.
‘‘(2) RECOMMENDATION.—Not later than Oc-
tober 1, 2022, the Secretary shall submit to
Congress a recommendation on whether the
Advisory Committee should be extended.’’.
(d) ADVISORY COMMITTEE COORDINATION.—
Subtitle B of title XXVIII (42 U.S.C. 300hh et
seq.), as amended by subsection (c), is fur-
ther amended by inserting after section
2811C the following:
‘‘SEC. 2811D. ADVISORY COMMITTEE COORDINA-
TION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate duties and activities authorized
under sections 2811A, 2811B, and 2811C, and
make efforts to reduce unnecessary or dupli-
cative reporting, or unnecessary duplicative
meetings and recommendations under such
sections, as practicable. Members of the ad-
visory committees authorized under such
sections, or their designees, shall annually
meet to coordinate any recommendations, as
appropriate, that may be similar, duplica-
tive, or overlapping with respect to address-
ing the needs of children, seniors, and indi-
viduals with disabilities during public health
emergencies. If such coordination occurs
through an in-person meeting, it shall not be
considered the required in-person meetings
under any of sections 2811A(e), 2811B(e), or
2811C(d).
‘‘(b) COORDINATION AND ALIGNMENT.—The
Secretary, acting through the employee des-
ignated pursuant to section 2814, shall align
preparedness and response programs or ac-
tivities to address similar, dual, or overlap-
ping needs of children, seniors, and individ-
uals with disabilities, and any challenges in
preparing for and responding to such needs.
‘‘(c) NOTIFICATION.—The Secretary shall
annually notify the congressional commit-
tees of jurisdiction regarding the steps taken
to coordinate, as appropriate, the rec-
ommendations under this section, and pro-
vide a summary description of such coordi-
nation.’’.
SEC. 306. GUIDANCE FOR PARTICIPATION IN EX-
ERCISES AND DRILLS.
Not later than 2 years after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Secretary of Health
and Human Services shall issue final guid-
ance regarding the ability of personnel fund-
ed by programs authorized under this Act
(including the amendments made by this
Act) to participate in drills and operational
exercises related to all-hazards medical and
public health preparedness and response.
Such drills and operational exercises may in-
clude activities that incorporate medical
surge capacity planning, medical counter-
measure distribution and administration,
and preparing for and responding to identi-
fied threats for that region. Such personnel
may include State, local, Tribal, and terri-
torial public health department or agency
personnel funded under this Act (including
the amendments made by this Act). The Sec-
retary shall consult with the Department of
Homeland Security, the Department of De-
fense, the Department of Veterans Affairs,
and other applicable Federal departments
and agencies as necessary and appropriate in
the development of such guidance. The Sec-
retary shall make the guidance available on
the internet website of the Department of
Health and Human Services.
TITLE IV—PRIORITIZING A THREAT-
BASED APPROACH
SEC. 401. ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR PRE-
PAREDNESS AND RESPONSE.
Section 2811(b) (42 U.S.C. 300hh–10(b)) is
amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘utilize experience related to
public health emergency preparedness and
response, biodefense, medical counter-
measures, and other relevant topics to’’ after
‘‘shall’’; and
(2) in paragraph (4), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(I) THREAT AWARENESS.—Coordinate with
the Director of the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention, the Director of National
Intelligence, the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity, the Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs, the Secretary of De-
fense, and other relevant Federal officials,
such as the Secretary of Agriculture, to
maintain a current assessment of national
security threats and inform preparedness
and response capabilities based on the range
of the threats that have the potential to re-
sult in a public health emergency.’’.
SEC. 402. PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY MEDICAL
COUNTERMEASURES ENTERPRISE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title XXVIII is amended
by inserting after section 2811 (42 U.S.C.
300hh–10) the following:
‘‘SEC. 2811–1. PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY MED-
ICAL COUNTERMEASURES ENTER-
PRISE.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish the Public Health Emergency Med-
ical Countermeasures Enterprise (referred to
in this section as the ‘PHEMCE’). The As-
sistant Secretary for Preparedness and Re-
sponse shall serve as chair of the PHEMCE.
‘‘(b) MEMBERS.—The PHEMCE shall in-
clude each of the following members, or the
designee of such members:
‘‘(1) The Assistant Secretary for Prepared-
ness and Response.
‘‘(2) The Director of the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.
‘‘(3) The Director of the National Insti-
tutes of Health.
‘‘(4) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
‘‘(5) The Secretary of Defense.
‘‘(6) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
‘‘(7) The Secretary of Agriculture.
‘‘(8) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
‘‘(9) The Director of National Intelligence.
‘‘(10) Representatives of any other Federal
agency, which may include the Director of
the Biomedical Advanced Research and De-
velopment Authority, the Director of the
Strategic National Stockpile, the Director of
the National Institute of Allergy and Infec-
tious Diseases, and the Director of the Office
of Public Health Preparedness and Response,
as the Secretary determines appropriate.
‘‘(c) FUNCTIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The functions of the
PHEMCE shall include the following:
‘‘(A) Utilize a process to make rec-
ommendations to the Secretary regarding
research, advanced research, development,
procurement, stockpiling, deployment, dis-
tribution, and utilization with respect to
countermeasures, as defined in section 319F–
2(c), including prioritization based on the
health security needs of the United States.
Such recommendations shall be informed by,
when available and practicable, the National
Health Security Strategy pursuant to sec-
tion 2802, the Strategic National Stockpile
needs pursuant to section 319F–2, and assess-
ments of current national security threats,
including chemical, biological, radiological,
and nuclear threats, including emerging in-
fectious diseases. In the event that members
of the PHEMCE do not agree upon a rec-
ommendation, the Secretary shall provide a
determination regarding such recommenda-
tion.
‘‘(B) Identify national health security
needs, including gaps in public health pre-
paredness and response related to counter-
measures and challenges to addressing such
needs (including any regulatory challenges),
and support alignment of countermeasure
procurement with recommendations to ad-
dress such needs under subparagraph (A).
‘‘(C) Assist the Secretary in developing
strategies related to logistics, deployment,
distribution, dispensing, and use of counter-
measures that may be applicable to the ac-
tivities of the strategic national stockpile
under section 319F–2(a).
‘‘(D) Provide consultation for the develop-
ment of the strategy and implementation
plan under section 2811(d).
‘‘(2) INPUT.—In carrying out subparagraphs
(B) and (C) of paragraph (1), the PHEMCE
shall solicit and consider input from State,
local, Tribal, and territorial public health
departments or officials, as appropriate.’’.
(b) PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY MEDICAL
COUNTERMEASURES ENTERPRISE STRATEGY
AND IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—Section 2811(d)
(42 U.S.C. 300hh–10(d)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this sub-
section, and every year thereafter’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Not later than March 15, 2020, and
biennially thereafter’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H248 January 8, 2019
(B) by striking ‘‘Director of the Bio-
medical’’ and all that follows through ‘‘Food
and Drugs’’ and inserting ‘‘Public Health
Emergency Medical Countermeasures Enter-
prise established under section 2811–1’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2)(J)(v), by striking ‘‘one-
year period’’ and inserting ‘‘2-year period’’.
SEC. 403. STRATEGIC NATIONAL STOCKPILE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 319F–2(a) (42
U.S.C. 247d–6b(a)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3)
as paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively; and
(2) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘the Assistant Secretary
for Preparedness and Response and’’ after
‘‘collaboration with’’;
(B) by inserting ‘‘and optimize’’ after ‘‘pro-
vide for’’;
(C) by inserting ‘‘and, as informed by exist-
ing recommendations of, or consultations
with, the Public Health Emergency Medical
Countermeasure Enterprise established
under section 2811–1, make necessary addi-
tions or modifications to the contents of
such stockpile or stockpiles based on the re-
view conducted under paragraph (2)’’ before
the period of the first sentence; and
(D) by striking the second sentence;
(3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) THREAT-BASED REVIEW.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct an annual threat-based review (taking
into account at-risk individuals) of the con-
tents of the stockpile under paragraph (1),
including non-pharmaceutical supplies, and,
in consultation with the Public Health
Emergency Medical Countermeasures Enter-
prise established under section 2811–1, review
contents within the stockpile and assess
whether such contents are consistent with
the recommendations made pursuant to sec-
tion 2811–1(c)(1)(A). Such review shall be sub-
mitted on June 15, 2019, and on March 15 of
each year thereafter, to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and
the Committee on Appropriations of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce and the Committee on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives, in a manner
that does not compromise national security.
‘‘(B) ADDITIONS, MODIFICATIONS, AND RE-
PLENISHMENTS.—Each annual threat-based
review under subparagraph (A) shall, for
each new or modified countermeasure pro-
curement or replenishment, provide—
‘‘(i) information regarding—
‘‘(I) the quantities of the additional or
modified countermeasure procured for, or
contracted to be procured for, the stockpile;
‘‘(II) planning considerations for appro-
priate manufacturing capacity and capa-
bility to meet the goals of such additions or
modifications (without disclosing propri-
etary information), including consideration
of the effect such additions or modifications
may have on the availability of such prod-
ucts and ancillary medical supplies in the
health care system;
‘‘(III) the presence or lack of a commercial
market for the countermeasure at the time
of procurement;
‘‘(IV) the emergency health security threat
or threats such countermeasure procurement
is intended to address, including whether
such procurement is consistent with meeting
emergency health security needs associated
with such threat or threats;
‘‘(V) an assessment of whether the emer-
gency health security threat or threats de-
scribed in subclause (IV) could be addressed
in a manner that better utilizes the re-
sources of the stockpile and permits the
greatest possible increase in the level of
emergency preparedness to address such
threats;
‘‘(VI) whether such countermeasure is re-
plenishing an expiring or expired counter-
measure, is a different countermeasure with
the same indication that is replacing an ex-
piring or expired countermeasure, or is a new
addition to the stockpile;
‘‘(VII) a description of how such additions
or modifications align with projected invest-
ments under previous countermeasures budg-
et plans under section 2811(b)(7), including
expected life-cycle costs, expenditures re-
lated to countermeasure procurement to ad-
dress the threat or threats described in sub-
clause (IV), replenishment dates (including
the ability to extend the maximum shelf life
of a countermeasure), and the manufacturing
capacity required to replenish such counter-
measure; and
‘‘(VIII) appropriate protocols and processes
for the deployment, distribution, or dis-
pensing of the countermeasure at the State
and local level, including plans for relevant
capabilities of State and local entities to dis-
pense, distribute, and administer the coun-
termeasure; and
‘‘(ii) an assurance, which need not be pro-
vided in advance of procurement, that for
each countermeasure procured or replen-
ished under this subsection, the Secretary
completed a review addressing each item
listed under this subsection in advance of
such procurement or replenishment.’’;
(4) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘and
the Public Health Emergency Medical Coun-
termeasures Enterprise established under
section 2811–1’’ before the semicolon;
(B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ‘‘, and
the availability, deployment, dispensing, and
administration of countermeasures’’ before
the semicolon;
(C) by amending subparagraph (E) to read
as follows:
‘‘(E) devise plans for effective and timely
supply-chain management of the stockpile,
in consultation with the Director of the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Prevention, the
Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and
Response, the Secretary of Transportation,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the heads
of other appropriate Federal agencies; State,
local, Tribal, and territorial agencies; and
the public and private health care infrastruc-
ture, as applicable, taking into account the
manufacturing capacity and other available
sources of products and appropriate alter-
natives to supplies in the stockpile;’’;
(D) in subparagraph (G), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting a semicolon;
(E) in subparagraph (H), by striking the pe-
riod and inserting a semicolon; and
(F) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(I) ensure that each countermeasure or
product under consideration for procurement
pursuant to this subsection receives the
same consideration regardless of whether
such countermeasure or product receives or
had received funding under section 319L, in-
cluding with respect to whether the counter-
measure or product is most appropriate to
meet the emergency health security needs of
the United States; and
‘‘(J) provide assistance, including tech-
nical assistance, to maintain and improve
State and local public health preparedness
capabilities to distribute and dispense med-
ical countermeasures and products from the
stockpile, as appropriate.’’; and
(5) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) GAO REPORT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of the Pandemic
and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing
Innovation Act of 2019, and every 5 years
thereafter, the Comptroller General of the
United States shall conduct a review of any
changes to the contents or management of
the stockpile since January 1, 2015. Such re-
view shall include—
‘‘(i) an assessment of the comprehensive-
ness and completeness of each annual threat-
based review under paragraph (2), including
whether all newly procured or replenished
countermeasures within the stockpile were
described in each annual review, and wheth-
er, consistent with paragraph (2)(B), the Sec-
retary conducted the necessary internal re-
view in advance of such procurement or re-
plenishment;
‘‘(ii) an assessment of whether the Sec-
retary established health security and
science-based justifications, and a descrip-
tion of such justifications for procurement
decisions related to health security needs
with respect to the identified threat, for ad-
ditions or modifications to the stockpile
based on the information provided in such
reviews under paragraph (2)(B), including
whether such review was conducted prior to
procurement, modification, or replenish-
ment;
‘‘(iii) an assessment of the plans developed
by the Secretary for the deployment, dis-
tribution, and dispensing of countermeasures
procured, modified, or replenished under
paragraph (1), including whether such plans
were developed prior to procurement, modi-
fication, or replenishment;
‘‘(iv) an accounting of countermeasures
procured, modified, or replenished under
paragraph (1) that received advanced re-
search and development funding from the
Biomedical Advanced Research and Develop-
ment Authority;
‘‘(v) an analysis of how such procurement
decisions made progress toward meeting
emergency health security needs related to
the identified threats for countermeasures
added, modified, or replenished under para-
graph (1);
‘‘(vi) a description of the resources ex-
pended related to the procurement of coun-
termeasures (including additions, modifica-
tions, and replenishments) in the stockpile,
and how such expenditures relate to the abil-
ity of the stockpile to meet emergency
health security needs;
‘‘(vii) an assessment of the extent to which
additions, modifications, and replenishments
reviewed under paragraph (2) align with pre-
vious relevant reports or reviews by the Sec-
retary or the Comptroller General;
‘‘(viii) with respect to any change in the
Federal organizational management of the
stockpile, an assessment and comparison of
the processes affected by such change, in-
cluding planning for potential counter-
measure deployment, distribution, or dis-
pensing capabilities and processes related to
procurement decisions, use of stockpiled
countermeasures, and use of resources for
such activities; and
‘‘(ix) an assessment of whether the proc-
esses and procedures described by the Sec-
retary pursuant to section 403(b) of the Pan-
demic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Ad-
vancing Innovation Act of 2019 are sufficient
to ensure countermeasures and products
under consideration for procurement pursu-
ant to subsection (a) receive the same con-
sideration regardless of whether such coun-
termeasures and products receive or had re-
ceived funding under section 319L, including
with respect to whether such counter-
measures and products are most appropriate
to meet the emergency health security needs
of the United States.
‘‘(B) SUBMISSION.—Not later than 6 months
after completing a classified version of the
review under subparagraph (A), the Comp-
troller General shall submit an unclassified
version of the review to the congressional
committees of jurisdiction.’’.
(b) ADDITIONAL REPORTING.—In the first
threat-based review submitted after the date
of enactment of this Act pursuant to para-
graph (2) of section 319F–2(a) of the Public
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H249
January 8, 2019
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(a)), as
amended by subsection (a), the Secretary
shall include a description of the processes
and procedures through which the Director
of the Strategic National Stockpile and the
Director of the Biomedical Advanced Re-
search and Development Authority coordi-
nate with respect to countermeasures and
products procured under such section 319F–
2(a), including such processes and procedures
in place to ensure countermeasures and prod-
ucts under consideration for procurement
pursuant to such section 319F–2(a) receive
the same consideration regardless of whether
such countermeasures or products receive or
had received funding under section 319L of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
247d–7e), and whether such countermeasures
and products are the most appropriate to
meet the emergency health security needs of
the United States.
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS,
STRATEGIC NATIONAL STOCKPILE.—Section
319F–2(f)(1) (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(f)(1)) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘$533,800,000 for each of fiscal
years 2014 through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘$610,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023, to remain available until ex-
pended’’.
SEC. 404. PREPARING FOR PANDEMIC INFLU-
ENZA, ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE,
AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT THREATS.
(a) STRATEGIC INITIATIVES.—Section
319L(c)(4) (247d–7e(c)(4)) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(F) STRATEGIC INITIATIVES.—The Sec-
retary, acting through the Director of
BARDA, may implement strategic initia-
tives, including by building on existing pro-
grams and by awarding contracts, grants,
and cooperative agreements, or entering into
other transactions, to support innovative
candidate products in preclinical and clinical
development that address priority, naturally
occurring and man-made threats that, as de-
termined by the Secretary, pose a significant
level of risk to national security based on
the characteristics of a chemical, biological,
radiological or nuclear threat, or existing
capabilities to respond to such a threat (in-
cluding medical response and treatment ca-
pabilities and manufacturing infrastruc-
ture). Such initiatives shall accelerate and
support the advanced research, development,
and procurement of countermeasures and
products, as applicable, to address areas in-
cluding—
‘‘(i) chemical, biological, radiological, or
nuclear threats, including emerging infec-
tious diseases, for which insufficient ap-
proved, licensed, or authorized counter-
measures exist, or for which such threat, or
the result of an exposure to such threat, may
become resistant to countermeasures or ex-
isting countermeasures may be rendered in-
effective;
‘‘(ii) threats that consistently exist or con-
tinually circulate and have a significant po-
tential to become a pandemic, such as pan-
demic influenza, which may include the ad-
vanced research and development, manufac-
turing, and appropriate stockpiling of quali-
fied pandemic or epidemic products, and
products, technologies, or processes to sup-
port the advanced research and development
of such countermeasures (including multiuse
platform technologies for diagnostics, vac-
cines, and therapeutics; virus seeds; clinical
trial lots; novel virus strains; and antigen
and adjuvant material); and
‘‘(iii) threats that may result primarily or
secondarily from a chemical, biological, ra-
diological, or nuclear agent, or emerging in-
fectious diseases, and which may present in-
creased treatment complications such as the
occurrence of resistance to available coun-
termeasures or potential countermeasures,
including antimicrobial resistant patho-
gens.’’.
(b) PROTECTION OF NATIONAL SECURITY
FROM THREATS.—Section 2811 (42 U.S.C.
300hh–10) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(f) PROTECTION OF NATIONAL SECURITY
FROM THREATS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out sub-
section (b)(3), the Assistant Secretary for
Preparedness and Response shall implement
strategic initiatives or activities to address
threats, including pandemic influenza and
which may include a chemical, biological,
radiological, or nuclear agent (including any
such agent with a significant potential to be-
come a pandemic), that pose a significant
level of risk to public health and national se-
curity based on the characteristics of such
threat. Such initiatives shall include activi-
ties to—
‘‘(A) accelerate and support the advanced
research, development, manufacturing ca-
pacity, procurement, and stockpiling of
countermeasures, including initiatives under
section 319L(c)(4)(F);
‘‘(B) support the development and manu-
facturing of virus seeds, clinical trial lots,
and stockpiles of novel virus strains; and
‘‘(C) maintain or improve preparedness ac-
tivities, including for pandemic influenza.
‘‘(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—To carry out this sub-
section, there is authorized to be appro-
priated $250,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2019 through 2023.
‘‘(B) SUPPLEMENT, NOT SUPPLANT.—
Amounts appropriated under this paragraph
shall be used to supplement and not supplant
funds provided under sections 319L(d) and
319F–2(g).
‘‘(C) DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED.—The As-
sistant Secretary for Preparedness and Re-
sponse, in accordance with subsection (b)(7),
shall document amounts expended for pur-
poses of carrying out this subsection, includ-
ing amounts appropriated under the heading
‘Public Health and Social Services Emer-
gency Fund’ under the heading ‘Office of the
Secretary’ under title II of division H of the
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–141) and allocated to carrying out
section 319L(c)(4)(F).’’.
SEC. 405. REPORTING ON THE FEDERAL SELECT
AGENT PROGRAM.
Section 351A(k) (42 U.S.C. 262a(k)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE FEDERAL EXPERTS SECURITY ADVISORY
PANEL AND THE FAST TRACK ACTION COMMITTEE
ON SELECT AGENT REGULATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of the Pan-
demic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Ad-
vancing Innovation Act of 2019, the Sec-
retary shall report to the congressional com-
mittees of jurisdiction on the implementa-
tion of recommendations of the Federal Ex-
perts Security Advisory Panel concerning
the select agent program.
‘‘(B) CONTINUED UPDATES.—The Secretary
shall report to the congressional committees
of jurisdiction annually following the sub-
mission of the report under subparagraph (A)
until the recommendations described in such
subparagraph are fully implemented, or a
justification is provided for the delay in, or
lack of, implementation.’’.
TITLE V—INCREASING COMMUNICATION
IN MEDICAL COUNTERMEASURE AD-
VANCED RESEARCH AND DEVELOP-
MENT
SEC. 501. MEDICAL COUNTERMEASURE BUDGET
PLAN.
Section 2811(b)(7) (42 U.S.C. 300hh–10(b)(7))
is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘March 1’’ and inserting
‘‘March 15’’;
(2) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting ‘‘;’’; and
(B) by striking clause (iii) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(iii) procurement, stockpiling, mainte-
nance, and potential replenishment (includ-
ing manufacturing capabilities) of all prod-
ucts in the Strategic National Stockpile;
‘‘(iv) the availability of technologies that
may assist in the advanced research and de-
velopment of countermeasures and opportu-
nities to use such technologies to accelerate
and navigate challenges unique to counter-
measure research and development; and
‘‘(v) potential deployment, distribution,
and utilization of medical countermeasures;
development of clinical guidance and emer-
gency use instructions for the use of medical
countermeasures; and, as applicable, poten-
tial postdeployment activities related to
medical countermeasures;’’;
(3) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and
(E) as subparagraphs (E) and (F), respec-
tively; and
(4) by inserting after subparagraph (C), the
following:
‘‘(D) identify the full range of anticipated
medical countermeasure needs related to re-
search and development, procurement, and
stockpiling, including the potential need for
indications, dosing, and administration tech-
nologies, and other countermeasure needs as
applicable and appropriate;’’.
SEC. 502. MATERIAL THREAT AND MEDICAL
COUNTERMEASURE NOTIFICATIONS.
(a) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF MATE-
RIAL THREAT DETERMINATION.—Section 319F–
2(c)(2)(C) (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(c)(2)(C)) is
amended by striking ‘‘The Secretary and the
Homeland Security Secretary shall promptly
notify the appropriate committees of Con-
gress’’ and inserting ‘‘The Secretary and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall send
to Congress, on an annual basis, all current
material threat determinations and shall
promptly notify the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions and the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs of the Senate and the
Committee on Energy and Commerce and the
Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives’’.
(b) CONTRACTING COMMUNICATION.—Section
319F–2(c)(7)(B)(ii)(III) (42 U.S.C. 247d–
6b(c)(7)(B)(ii)(III)) is amended by adding at
the end the following: ‘‘The Secretary shall
notify the vendor within 90 days of a deter-
mination by the Secretary to renew, extend,
or terminate such contract.’’.
SEC. 503. AVAILABILITY OF REGULATORY MAN-
AGEMENT PLANS.
Section 565(f) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360bbb–4(f)) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through
(6) as paragraphs (4) through (7), respec-
tively;
(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) PUBLICATION.—The Secretary shall
make available on the internet website of
the Food and Drug Administration informa-
tion regarding regulatory management
plans, including—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H250 January 8, 2019
‘‘(A) the process by which an applicant
may submit a request for a regulatory man-
agement plan;
‘‘(B) the timeframe by which the Secretary
is required to respond to such request;
‘‘(C) the information required for the sub-
mission of such request;
‘‘(D) a description of the types of develop-
ment milestones and performance targets
that could be discussed and included in such
plans; and
‘‘(E) contact information for beginning the
regulatory management plan process.’’;
(3) in paragraph (6), as so redesignated, in
the matter preceding subparagraph (A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘paragraph (4)(A)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘paragraph (5)(A)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘paragraph (4)(B)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘paragraph (5)(B)’’; and
(4) in paragraph (7)(A), as so redesignated,
by striking ‘‘paragraph (3)(A)’’ and inserting
‘‘paragraph (4)(A)’’.
SEC. 504. THE BIOMEDICAL ADVANCED RE-
SEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AU-
THORITY AND THE BIOSHIELD SPE-
CIAL RESERVE FUND.
(a) BIOSHIELD SPECIAL RESERVE FUND.—
Section 319F–2(g)(1) (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(g)(1))
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘$2,800,000,000 for the period
of fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘$7,100,000,000 for the period of fiscal
years 2019 through 2028, to remain available
until expended’’; and
(2) by striking the second sentence.
(b) THE BIOMEDICAL ADVANCED RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.—Section
319L(d)(2) (42 U.S.C. 247d–7e(d)(2)) is amended
by striking ‘‘$415,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2014 through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘$611,700,000 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023’’.
SEC. 505. ADDITIONAL STRATEGIES FOR COM-
BATING ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE.
(a) ADVISORY COUNCIL.—The Secretary of
Health and Human Services (referred to in
this section as the ‘‘Secretary’’) may con-
tinue the Presidential Advisory Council on
Combating Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria,
referred to in this section as the ‘‘Advisory
Council’’.
(b) DUTIES.—The Advisory Council shall
advise and provide information and rec-
ommendations to the Secretary regarding
programs and policies intended to reduce or
combat antibiotic-resistant bacteria that
may present a public health threat and im-
prove capabilities to prevent, diagnose, miti-
gate, or treat such resistance. Such advice,
information, and recommendations may be
related to improving—
(1) the effectiveness of antibiotics;
(2) research and advanced research on, and
the development of, improved and innovative
methods for combating or reducing anti-
biotic resistance, including new treatments,
rapid point-of-care diagnostics, alternatives
to antibiotics, including alternatives to ani-
mal antibiotics, and antimicrobial steward-
ship activities;
(3) surveillance of antibiotic-resistant bac-
terial infections, including publicly available
and up-to-date information on resistance to
antibiotics;
(4) education for health care providers and
the public with respect to up-to-date infor-
mation on antibiotic resistance and ways to
reduce or combat such resistance to anti-
biotics related to humans and animals;
(5) methods to prevent or reduce the trans-
mission of antibiotic-resistant bacterial in-
fections, including stewardship programs;
and
(6) coordination with respect to inter-
national efforts in order to inform and ad-
vance United States capabilities to combat
antibiotic resistance.
(c) MEETINGS AND COORDINATION.—
(1) MEETINGS.—The Advisory Council shall
meet not less than biannually and, to the ex-
tent practicable, in coordination with meet-
ings of the Antimicrobial Resistance Task
Force established in section 319E(a) of the
Public Health Service Act.
(2) COORDINATION.—The Advisory Council
shall, to the greatest extent practicable, co-
ordinate activities carried out by the Coun-
cil with the Antimicrobial Resistance Task
Force established under section 319E(a) of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
247d–5(a)).
(d) FACA.—The Federal Advisory Com-
mittee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the
activities and duties of the Advisory Council.
(e) EXTENSION OF ADVISORY COUNCIL.—Not
later than October 1, 2022, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives a rec-
ommendation on whether the Advisory
Council should be extended, and in addition,
identify whether there are other committees,
councils, or task forces that have overlap-
ping or similar duties to that of the Advisory
Council, and whether such committees,
councils, or task forces should be combined,
including with respect to section 319E(a) of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
247d–5(a)).
TITLE VI—ADVANCING TECHNOLOGIES
FOR MEDICAL COUNTERMEASURES
SEC. 601. ADMINISTRATION OF COUNTER-
MEASURES.
Section 319L(c)(4)(D)(iii) (42 U.S.C. 247d–
7e(c)(4)(D)(iii)) is amended by striking ‘‘and
platform technologies’’ and inserting ‘‘plat-
form technologies, technologies to admin-
ister countermeasures, and technologies to
improve storage and transportation of coun-
termeasures’’.
SEC. 602. UPDATING DEFINITIONS OF OTHER
TRANSACTIONS.
Section 319L (42 U.S.C. 247d–7e) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ‘‘, such
as’’ and all that follows through ‘‘Code’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)(5)(A)—
(A) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘under this
subsection’’ and all that follows through
‘‘Code’’ and inserting ‘‘(as defined in sub-
section (a)(3)) under this subsection’’; and
(B) in clause (ii)—
(i) by amending subclause (I) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—To the maximum extent
practicable, competitive procedures shall be
used when entering into transactions to
carry out projects under this subsection.’’;
and
(ii) in subclause (II)—
(I) by striking ‘‘$20,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$100,000,000’’;
(II) by striking ‘‘senior procurement execu-
tive for the Department (as designated for
purpose of section 16(c) of the Office of Fed-
eral Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C.
414(c)))’’ and inserting ‘‘Assistant Secretary
for Financial Resources’’; and
(III) by striking ‘‘senior procurement exec-
utive under’’ and inserting ‘‘Assistant Sec-
retary for Financial Resources under’’.
SEC. 603. MEDICAL COUNTERMEASURE MASTER
FILES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The purpose of this sec-
tion (including section 565B of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by
subsection (b)) is to support and advance the
development or manufacture of security
countermeasures, qualified countermeasures,
and qualified pandemic or epidemic products
by facilitating and encouraging submission
of data and information to support the devel-
opment of such products, and through clari-
fying the authority to cross-reference to
data and information previously submitted
to the Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices (referred to in this section as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’), including data and information
submitted to medical countermeasure mas-
ter files or other master files.
(b) MEDICAL COUNTERMEASURE MASTER
FILES.—Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 351 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 565A the
following:
‘‘SEC. 565B. MEDICAL COUNTERMEASURE MAS-
TER FILES.
‘‘(a) APPLICABILITY OF REFERENCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A person may submit
data and information in a master file to the
Secretary with the intent to reference, or to
authorize, in writing, another person to ref-
erence, such data or information to support
a medical countermeasure submission (in-
cluding a supplement or amendment to any
such submission), without requiring the mas-
ter file holder to disclose the data and infor-
mation to any such persons authorized to
reference the master file. Such data and in-
formation shall be available for reference by
the master file holder or by a person author-
ized by the master file holder, in accordance
with applicable privacy and confidentiality
protocols and regulations.
‘‘(2) REFERENCE OF CERTAIN MASTER
FILES.—In the case that data or information
within a medical countermeasure master file
is used only to support the conditional ap-
proval of an application filed under section
571, such master file may be relied upon to
support the effectiveness of a product that is
the subject of a subsequent medical counter-
measure submission only if such application
is supplemented by additional data or infor-
mation to support review and approval in a
manner consistent with the standards appli-
cable to such review and approval for such
countermeasure, qualified countermeasure,
or qualified pandemic or epidemic product.
‘‘(b) MEDICAL COUNTERMEASURE MASTER
FILE CONTENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A master file under this
section may include data or information to
support—
‘‘(A) the development of medical counter-
measure submissions to support the ap-
proval, licensure, classification, clearance,
conditional approval, or authorization of one
or more security countermeasures, qualified
countermeasures, or qualified pandemic or
epidemic products; and
‘‘(B) the manufacture of security counter-
measures, qualified countermeasures, or
qualified pandemic or epidemic products.
‘‘(2) REQUIRED UPDATES.—The Secretary
may require, as appropriate, that the master
file holder ensure that the contents of such
master file are updated during the time such
master file is referenced for a medical coun-
termeasure submission.
‘‘(c) SPONSOR REFERENCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each incorporation of
data or information within a medical coun-
termeasure master file shall describe the in-
corporated material in a manner in which
the Secretary determines appropriate and
that permits the review of such information
within such master file without necessi-
tating resubmission of such data or informa-
tion. Master files shall be submitted in an
electronic format in accordance with sec-
tions 512(b)(4), 571(a)(4), and 745A, as applica-
ble, and as specified in applicable guidance.
‘‘(2) REFERENCE BY A MASTER FILE HOLD-
ER.—A master file holder that is the sponsor
of a medical countermeasure submission
shall notify the Secretary in writing of the
intent to reference the medical counter-
measure master file as a part of the submis-
sion.
‘‘(3) REFERENCE BY AN AUTHORIZED PER-
SON.—A person submitting an application for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H251
January 8, 2019
review may, where the Secretary determines
appropriate, incorporate by reference all or
part of the contents of a medical counter-
measure master file, if the master file holder
authorizes the incorporation in writing.
‘‘(d) ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AND RELIANCE
UPON A MASTER FILE BY THE SECRETARY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall pro-
vide the master file holder with a written no-
tification indicating that the Secretary has
reviewed and relied upon specified data or in-
formation within a master file and the pur-
poses for which such data or information was
incorporated by reference if the Secretary
has reviewed and relied upon such specified
data or information to support the approval,
classification, conditional approval, clear-
ance, licensure, or authorization of a secu-
rity countermeasure, qualified counter-
measure, or qualified pandemic or epidemic
product. The Secretary may rely upon the
data and information within the medical
countermeasure master file for which such
written notification was provided in addi-
tional applications, as applicable and appro-
priate and upon the request of the master
file holder so notified in writing or by an au-
thorized person of such holder.
‘‘(2) CERTAIN APPLICATIONS.—If the Sec-
retary has reviewed and relied upon specified
data or information within a medical coun-
termeasure master file to support the condi-
tional approval of an application under sec-
tion 571 to subsequently support the ap-
proval, clearance, licensure, or authorization
of a security countermeasure, qualified
countermeasure, or qualified pandemic or
epidemic product, the Secretary shall pro-
vide a brief written description to the master
file holder regarding the elements of the ap-
plication fulfilled by the data or information
within the master file and how such data or
information contained in such application
meets the standards of evidence under sub-
section (c) or (d) of section 505, subsection (d)
of section 512, or section 351 of the Public
Health Service Act (as applicable), which
shall not include any trade secret or con-
fidential commercial information.
‘‘(e) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to—
‘‘(1) limit the authority of the Secretary to
approve, license, clear, conditionally ap-
prove, or authorize drugs, biological prod-
ucts, or devices pursuant to, as applicable,
this Act or section 351 of the Public Health
Service Act (as such applicable Act is in ef-
fect on the day before the date of enactment
of the Pandemic and All-Hazards Prepared-
ness and Advancing Innovation Act of 2019),
including the standards of evidence, and ap-
plicable conditions, for approval under the
applicable Act;
‘‘(2) alter the standards of evidence with
respect to approval, licensure, or clearance,
as applicable, of drugs, biological products,
or devices under this Act or section 351 of
the Public Health Service Act, including, as
applicable, the substantial evidence stand-
ards under sections 505(d) and 512(d) or this
Act and section 351(a) of the Public Health
Service Act; or
‘‘(3) alter the authority of the Secretary
under this Act or the Public Health Service
Act to determine the types of data or infor-
mation previously submitted by a sponsor or
any other person that may be incorporated
by reference in an application, request, or
notification for a drug, biological product, or
device submitted under sections 505(i), 505(b),
505(j), 512(b)(1), 512(b)(2), 512(j), 564, 571, 520(g),
515(c), 513(f)(2), or 510(k) of this Act, or sub-
section (a) or (k) of section 351 of the Public
Health Service Act, including a supplement
or amendment to any such submission, and
the requirements associated with such ref-
erence.
‘‘(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘master file holder’ means a
person who submits data and information to
the Secretary with the intent to reference or
authorize another person to reference such
data or information to support a medical
countermeasure submission, as described in
subsection (a).
‘‘(2) The term ‘medical countermeasure
submission’ means an investigational new
drug application under section 505(i), a new
drug application under section 505(b), or an
abbreviated new drug application under sec-
tion 505(j) of this Act, a biological product li-
cense application under section 351(a) of the
Public Health Service Act or a biosimilar bi-
ological product license application under
section 351(k) of the Public Health Service
Act, a new animal drug application under
section 512(b)(1) or abbreviated new animal
drug application under section 512(b)(2), an
application for conditional approval of a new
animal drug under section 571, an investiga-
tional device application under section
520(g), an application with respect to a de-
vice under section 515(c), a request for classi-
fication of a device under section 513(f)(2), a
notification with respect to a device under
section 510(k), or a request for an emergency
use authorization under section 564 to sup-
port—
‘‘(A) the approval, licensure, classification,
clearance, conditional approval, or author-
ization of a security countermeasure, quali-
fied countermeasure, or qualified pandemic
or epidemic product; or
‘‘(B) a new indication to an approved secu-
rity countermeasure, qualified counter-
measure, or qualified pandemic or epidemic
product.
‘‘(3) The terms ‘qualified countermeasure’,
‘security countermeasure’, and ‘qualified
pandemic or epidemic product’ have the
meanings given such terms in sections 319F–
1, 319F–2, and 319F–3, respectively, of the
Public Health Service Act.’’.
(c) STAKEHOLDER INPUT.—Not later than 18
months after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary, acting through the Com-
missioner of Food and Drugs and in consulta-
tion with the Assistant Secretary for Pre-
paredness and Response, shall solicit input
from stakeholders, including stakeholders
developing security countermeasures, quali-
fied countermeasures, or qualified pandemic
or epidemic products, and stakeholders de-
veloping technologies to assist in the devel-
opment of such countermeasures with re-
spect to how the Food and Drug Administra-
tion can advance the use of tools and tech-
nologies to support and advance the develop-
ment or manufacture of security counter-
measures, qualified countermeasures, and
qualified pandemic or epidemic products, in-
cluding through reliance on cross-referenced
data and information contained within mas-
ter files and submissions previously sub-
mitted to the Secretary as set forth in sec-
tion 565B of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act, as added by subsection (b).
(d) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary, acting through the Commissioner of
Food and Drugs, shall publish draft guidance
about how reliance on cross-referenced data
and information contained within master
files under section 565B of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by sub-
section (b) or submissions otherwise sub-
mitted to the Secretary may be used for spe-
cific tools or technologies (including plat-
form technologies) that have the potential to
support and advance the development or
manufacture of security countermeasures,
qualified countermeasures, and qualified
pandemic or epidemic products. The Sec-
retary, acting through the Commissioner of
Food and Drugs, shall publish the final guid-
ance not later than 3 years after the enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 604. ANIMAL RULE REPORT.
(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General of
the United States shall conduct a study on
the application of the requirements under
subsections (c) and (d) of section 565 of the of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 360bbb–4) (referred to in this sec-
tion as the ‘‘animal rule’’) as a component of
medical countermeasure advanced develop-
ment under the Biomedical Advanced Re-
search and Development Authority and regu-
latory review by the Food and Drug Admin-
istration. In conducting such study, the
Comptroller General shall examine the fol-
lowing:
(1) The extent to which advanced develop-
ment and review of a medical counter-
measure are coordinated between the Bio-
medical Advanced Research and Develop-
ment Authority and the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, including activities that facili-
tate appropriate and efficient design of stud-
ies to support approval, licensure, and au-
thorization under the animal rule, consistent
with the recommendations in the animal
rule guidance, issued pursuant to section
565(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act (21 U.S.C. 360bbb–4(c)) and entitled
‘‘Product Development Under the Animal
Rule: Guidance for Industry’’ (issued in Octo-
ber 2015), to resolve discrepancies in the de-
sign of adequate and well-controlled efficacy
studies conducted in animal models related
to the provision of substantial evidence of ef-
fectiveness for the product approved, li-
censed, or authorized under the animal rule.
(2) The consistency of the application of
the animal rule among and between review
divisions within the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration.
(3) The flexibility pursuant to the animal
rule to address variations in countermeasure
development and review processes, including
the extent to which qualified animal models
are adopted and used within the Food and
Drug Administration in regulatory decision-
making with respect to medical counter-
measures.
(4) The extent to which the guidance issued
under section 565(c) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360bbb–
4(c)), entitled, ‘‘Product Development Under
the Animal Rule: Guidance for Industry’’
(issued in October 2015), has assisted in
achieving the purposes described in para-
graphs (1), (2), and (3).
(b) CONSULTATIONS.—In conducting the
study under subsection (a), the Comptroller
General of the United States shall consult
with—
(1) the Federal agencies responsible for ad-
vancing, reviewing, and procuring medical
countermeasures, including the Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and
Response, the Biomedical Advanced Re-
search and Development Authority, the Food
and Drug Administration, and the Depart-
ment of Defense;
(2) manufacturers involved in the research
and development of medical counter-
measures to address biological, chemical, ra-
diological, or nuclear threats; and
(3) other biodefense stakeholders, as appli-
cable.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
submit to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives a report con-
taining the results of the study conducted
under subsection (a) and recommendations
to improve the application and consistency
of the requirements under subsections (c)
and (d) of section 565 of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360bbb–4)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H252 January 8, 2019
to support and expedite the research and de-
velopment of medical countermeasures, as
applicable.
(d) PROTECTION OF NATIONAL SECURITY.—
The Comptroller General of the United
States shall conduct the study and issue the
assessment and report under this section in
a manner that does not compromise national
security.
SEC. 605. REVIEW OF THE BENEFITS OF GENOMIC
ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGIES AND
THEIR POTENTIAL ROLE IN NA-
TIONAL SECURITY.
(a) MEETING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘Secretary’’)
shall convene a meeting to discuss the poten-
tial role advancements in genomic engineer-
ing technologies (including genome editing
technologies) may have in advancing na-
tional health security. Such meeting shall be
held in a manner that does not compromise
national security.
(2) ATTENDEES.—The attendees of the meet-
ing under paragraph (1)—
(A) shall include—
(i) representatives from the Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and
Response, the National Institutes of Health,
the Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion, and the Food and Drug Administration;
and
(ii) representatives from academic, private,
and nonprofit entities with expertise in ge-
nome engineering technologies, biopharma-
ceuticals, medicine, or biodefense, and other
relevant stakeholders; and
(B) may include—
(i) other representatives from the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, as the
Secretary determines appropriate; and
(ii) representatives from the Department
of Homeland Security, the Department of
Defense, the Department of Agriculture, and
other departments, as the Secretary may re-
quest for the meeting.
(3) TOPICS.—The meeting under paragraph
(1) shall include a discussion of—
(A) the current state of the science of
genomic engineering technologies related to
national health security, including—
(i) medical countermeasure development,
including potential efficiencies in the devel-
opment pathway and detection technologies;
and
(ii) the international and domestic regula-
tion of products utilizing genome editing
technologies; and
(B) national security implications, includ-
ing—
(i) capabilities of the United States to le-
verage genomic engineering technologies as
a part of the medical countermeasure enter-
prise, including current applicable research,
development, and application efforts under-
way within the Department of Defense;
(ii) the potential for state and non-state
actors to utilize genomic engineering tech-
nologies as a national health security threat;
and
(iii) security measures to monitor and as-
sess the potential threat that may result
from utilization of genomic engineering
technologies and related technologies for the
purpose of compromising national health se-
curity.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 270 days after
the meeting described in subsection (a) is
held, the Assistant Secretary for Prepared-
ness and Response shall issue a report to the
congressional committees of jurisdiction on
the topics discussed at such meeting, and
provide recommendations, as applicable, to
utilize innovations in genomic engineering
(including genome editing) and related tech-
nologies as a part of preparedness and re-
sponse activities to advance national health
security. Such report shall be issued in a
manner that does not compromise national
security.
SEC. 606. REPORT ON VACCINES DEVELOPMENT.
Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services shall submit to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives a report describing
efforts and activities to coordinate with
other countries and international partners
during recent public health emergencies
with respect to the research and advanced
research on, and development of, qualified
pandemic or epidemic products (as defined in
section 319F–3 of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6d)). Such report may in-
clude information regarding relevant work
carried out under section 319L(c)(5)(E) of the
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–
7e(c)(5)(E)), through public-private partner-
ships, and through collaborations with other
countries to assist with or expedite the re-
search and development of qualified pan-
demic or epidemic products. Such report
shall not include information that may com-
promise national security.
SEC. 607. STRENGTHENING MOSQUITO ABATE-
MENT FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH.
(a) REAUTHORIZATION OF MOSQUITO ABATE-
MENT FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM.—
Section 317S (42 U.S.C. 247b–21) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)(B)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘including programs to
address emerging infectious mosquito-borne
diseases,’’ after ‘‘subdivisions for control
programs,’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘or improving existing
control programs’’ before the period at the
end;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘, includ-
ing improvement,’’ after ‘‘operation’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A)—
(I) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end;
(II) in clause (iii), by striking the semi-
colon at the end and inserting ‘‘, including
an emerging infectious mosquito-borne dis-
ease that presents a serious public health
threat; or’’; and
(III) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iv) a public health emergency due to the
incidence or prevalence of a mosquito-borne
disease that presents a serious public health
threat;’’; and
(ii) by amending subparagraph (D) to read
as follows:
‘‘(D)(i) is located in a State that has re-
ceived a grant under subsection (a); or
‘‘(ii) that demonstrates to the Secretary
that the control program is consistent with
existing State mosquito control plans or
policies, or other applicable State prepared-
ness plans.’’;
(C) in paragraph (4)(C), by striking ‘‘that
extraordinary’’ and all that follows through
the period at the end and inserting the fol-
lowing: ‘‘that—
‘‘(i) extraordinary economic conditions in
the political subdivision or consortium of po-
litical subdivisions involved justify the waiv-
er; or
‘‘(ii) the geographical area covered by a po-
litical subdivision or consortium for a grant
under paragraph (1) has an extreme mosquito
control need due to—
‘‘(I) the size or density of the potentially
impacted human population;
‘‘(II) the size or density of a mosquito pop-
ulation that requires heightened control; or
‘‘(III) the severity of the mosquito-borne
disease, such that expected serious adverse
health outcomes for the human population
justify the waiver.’’; and
(D) by amending paragraph (6) to read as
follows:
‘‘(6) NUMBER OF GRANTS.—A political sub-
division or a consortium of political subdivi-
sions may not receive more than one grant
under paragraph (1).’’; and
(3) in subsection (f)—
(A) in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘for fiscal
year 2003, and such sums as may be necessary
for each of fiscal years 2004 through 2007’’
and inserting ‘‘for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘the Pub-
lic Health Security and Bioterrorism Pre-
paredness and Response Act of 2002’’ and in-
serting ‘‘this Act and other medical and pub-
lic health preparedness and response laws’’;
and
(C) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘2004’’ and inserting ‘‘2019’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘2004,’’ and inserting
‘‘2019,’’.
(b) EPIDEMIOLOGY-LABORATORY CAPACITY
GRANTS.—Section 2821 (42 U.S.C. 300hh–31) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ‘‘, in-
cluding mosquito and other vector-borne dis-
eases,’’ after ‘‘infectious diseases’’; and
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘2010
through 2013’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through
2023’’.
TITLE VII—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 701. REAUTHORIZATIONS AND EXTENSIONS.
(a) VETERANS AFFAIRS.—Section 8117(g) of
title 38, United States Code, is amended by
striking ‘‘2014 through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(b) VACCINE TRACKING AND DISTRIBUTION.—
Section 319A(e) (42 U.S.C. 247d–1(e)) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘2014 through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(c) TEMPORARY REASSIGNMENT.—Section
319(e)(8) (42 U.S.C. 247d(e)(8)) is amended by
striking ‘‘2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2023’’.
(d) STRATEGIC INNOVATION PARTNER.—Sec-
tion 319L(c)(4)(E)(ix) (42 U.S.C. 247d–
7e(c)(4)(E)(ix)) is amended by striking ‘‘2022’’
and inserting ‘‘2023’’.
(e) LIMITED ANTITRUST EXEMPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 405 of the Pan-
demic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act
(Public Law 109–417; 42 U.S.C. 247d–6a note) is
amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(1)(A)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Secretary of Health and
Human Services (referred to in this sub-
section as the ‘Secretary’)’’ and inserting
‘‘Secretary’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b)) (as amended by
this Act’’;
(iii) by striking ‘‘of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6a)) (as amended
by this Act’’; and
(iv) by striking ‘‘of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6d)’’;
(B) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘12-year’’
and inserting ‘‘17-year’’;
(C) by redesignating such section 405 as
section 319L–1; and
(D) by transferring such section 319L–1, as
redesignated, to the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), to appear after
section 319L of such Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–7e).
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Pandemic and
All-Hazards Preparedness Act (Public Law
109–417) is amended by striking the item re-
lated to section 405.
(f) INAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVI-
SIONS.—Subsection (e)(1) of section 319L (42
U.S.C. 247d–7e(e)(1)) is amended—
(1) by amending subparagraph (A) to read
as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H253
January 8, 2019
‘‘(A) NONDISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Information described in
clause (ii) shall be deemed to be information
described in section 552(b)(3) of title 5,
United States Code.
‘‘(ii) INFORMATION DESCRIBED.—The infor-
mation described in this clause is informa-
tion relevant to programs of the Department
of Health and Human Services that could
compromise national security and reveal sig-
nificant and not otherwise publicly known
vulnerabilities of existing medical or public
health defenses against chemical, biological,
radiological, or nuclear threats, and is com-
prised of—
‘‘(I) specific technical data or scientific in-
formation that is created or obtained during
the countermeasure and product advanced
research and development carried out under
subsection (c);
‘‘(II) information pertaining to the loca-
tion security, personnel, and research mate-
rials and methods of high-containment lab-
oratories conducting research with select
agents, toxins, or other agents with a mate-
rial threat determination under section
319F–2(c)(2); or
‘‘(III) security and vulnerability assess-
ments.’’;
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as
subparagraph (D);
(3) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following:
‘‘(C) REPORTING.—One year after the date
of enactment of the Pandemic and All-Haz-
ards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation
Act of 2019, and annually thereafter, the Sec-
retary shall report to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate and the Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the House of Representa-
tives on the number of instances in which
the Secretary has used the authority under
this subsection to withhold information from
disclosure, as well as the nature of any re-
quest under section 552 of title 5, United
States Code that was denied using such au-
thority.’’; and
(4) in subparagraph (D), as so redesignated,
by striking ‘‘12’’ and inserting ‘‘17’’.
SEC. 702. LOCATION OF MATERIALS IN THE
STOCKPILE.
Subsection (d) of section 319F–2 (42 U.S.C.
247d–6b) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(d) DISCLOSURES.—No Federal agency may
disclose under section 552 of title 5, United
States Code any information identifying the
location at which materials in the stockpile
described in subsection (a) are stored, or
other information regarding the contents or
deployment capability of the stockpile that
could compromise national security.’’.
SEC. 703. CYBERSECURITY.
(a) STRATEGY FOR PUBLIC HEALTH PRE-
PAREDNESS AND RESPONSE TO CYBERSECURITY
THREATS.—
(1) STRATEGY.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘Secretary’’)
shall prepare and submit to the relevant
committees of Congress a strategy for public
health preparedness and response to address
cybersecurity threats (as defined in section
102 of Cybersecurity Information Sharing
Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501)) that present a
threat to national health security. Such
strategy shall include—
(A) identifying the duties, functions, and
preparedness goals for which the Secretary is
responsible in order to prepare for and re-
spond to such cybersecurity threats, includ-
ing metrics by which to measure success in
meeting preparedness goals;
(B) identifying gaps in public health capa-
bilities to achieve such preparedness goals;
and
(C) strategies to address identified gaps
and strengthen public health emergency pre-
paredness and response capabilities to ad-
dress such cybersecurity threats.
(2) PROTECTION OF NATIONAL SECURITY.—
The Secretary shall make such strategy
available to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate,
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of
the House of Representatives, and other con-
gressional committees of jurisdiction, in a
manner that does not compromise national
security.
(b) COORDINATION OF PREPAREDNESS FOR
AND RESPONSE TO ALL-HAZARDS PUBLIC
HEALTH EMERGENCIES.—Subparagraph (D) of
section 2811(b)(4) (42 U.S.C. 300hh–10(b)(4)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(D) POLICY COORDINATION AND STRATEGIC
DIRECTION.—Provide integrated policy co-
ordination and strategic direction, before,
during, and following public health emer-
gencies, with respect to all matters related
to Federal public health and medical pre-
paredness and execution and deployment of
the Federal response for public health emer-
gencies and incidents covered by the Na-
tional Response Plan described in section
504(a)(6) of the Homeland Security Act of
2002 (6 U.S.C. 314(a)(6)), or any successor
plan; and such Federal responses covered by
the National Cybersecurity Incident Re-
sponse Plan developed under section 228(c) of
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
149(c)), including public health emergencies
or incidents related to cybersecurity threats
that present a threat to national health se-
curity.’’.
SEC. 704. STRATEGY AND REPORT.
Not later than 14 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, in coordination
with the Assistant Secretary for Prepared-
ness and Response and the Assistant Sec-
retary for the Administration on Children
and Families or other appropriate office, and
in collaboration with other departments, as
appropriate, shall submit to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce of the House of
Representatives, the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Sen-
ate, and other relevant congressional com-
mittees—
(1) a formal strategy, including inter-
departmental actions and efforts to reunify
children with their parents or guardians, in
all cases in which such children have been
separated from their parents or guardians as
a result of the initiative announced on April
6, 2018, and due to prosecution under section
275(a) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1325(a)), if the parent or guard-
ian chooses such reunification and the
child—
(A) was separated from a parent or guard-
ian and placed into a facility funded by the
Department of Health and Human Services;
(B) as of the date of the enactment of this
Act, remains in the care of the Department
of Health and Human Services; and
(C) can be safely reunited with such parent
or guardian; and
(2) a report on challenges and deficiencies
related to the oversight of, and care for, un-
accompanied alien children and appro-
priately reuniting such children with their
parents or guardians, and the actions taken
to address any challenges and deficiencies
related to unaccompanied alien children in
the custody of the Department of Health and
Human Services, including deficiencies iden-
tified and publicly reported by Congress, the
Government Accountability Office, or the in-
spectors general of the Department of Health
and Human Services or other Federal depart-
ments.
SEC. 705. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
(a) PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT.—Title III
(42 U.S.C. 241 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in paragraphs (1) and (5) of section 319F–
1(a) (42 U.S.C. 247d–6a(a)), by striking ‘‘sec-
tion 319F(h)’’ each place such term appears
and inserting ‘‘section 319F(e)’’; and
(2) in section 319K(a) (42 U.S.C. 247d–7d(a)),
by striking ‘‘section 319F(h)(4)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘section 319F(e)(4)’’.
(b) PUBLIC HEALTH SECURITY GRANTS.—Sec-
tion 319C–1(b)(2) (42 U.S.C. 247d–3a(b)(2)) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘indi-
viduals,,’’ and inserting ‘‘individuals,’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘make
satisfactory annual improvement and de-
scribe’’ and inserting ‘‘makes satisfactory
annual improvement and describes’’.
(c) EMERGENCY USE INSTRUCTIONS.—Sub-
paragraph (A) of section 564A(e)(2) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 360bbb–3a(e)(2)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘subsection (a)(1)(C)(i)’’ and inserting
‘‘subsection (a)(1)(C)’’.
(d) PRODUCTS HELD FOR EMERGENCY USE.—
Section 564B(2) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360bbb–3b) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (B), by inserting a
comma after ‘‘505’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ‘‘or
section 564A’’ before the period at the end.
(e) TRANSPARENCY.—Section 507(c)(3) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 357(c)(3)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Nothing in’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in’’;
(2) by inserting ‘‘or directing’’ after ‘‘au-
thorizing’’;
(3) by striking ‘‘disclose any’’ and inserting
‘‘disclose—
‘‘(i) any’’;
(4) by striking the period and inserting ‘‘;
or’’; and
(5) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) in the case of a drug development tool
that may be used to support the development
of a qualified countermeasure, security
countermeasure, or qualified pandemic or
epidemic product, as defined in sections
319F–1, 319F–2, and 319F–3, respectively, of
the Public Health Service Act, any informa-
tion that the Secretary determines has a sig-
nificant potential to affect national secu-
rity.
‘‘(B) PUBLIC ACKNOWLEDGMENT.—In the case
that the Secretary, pursuant to subpara-
graph (A)(ii), does not make information
publicly available, the Secretary shall pro-
vide on the internet website of the Food and
Drug Administration an acknowledgment of
the information that has not been disclosed,
pursuant to subparagraph (A)(ii).’’.
DIVISION B—OVER-THE-COUNTER MONO-
GRAPH SAFETY, INNOVATION, AND RE-
FORM
SEC. 1000. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES IN DIVI-
SION.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This division may be
cited as the ‘‘Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act of 2019’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Except as otherwise
specified, any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ con-
tained in this division shall be treated as re-
ferring only to the provisions of this divi-
sion.
TITLE I—OTC DRUG REVIEW
SEC. 1001. REGULATION OF CERTAIN NON-
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS THAT ARE
MARKETED WITHOUT AN APPROVED
DRUG APPLICATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter V of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act is amended by
inserting after section 505F of such Act (21
U.S.C. 355g) the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H254 January 8, 2019
‘‘SEC. 505G. REGULATION OF CERTAIN NON-
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS THAT ARE
MARKETED WITHOUT AN APPROVED
DRUG APPLICATION.
‘‘(a) NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS MARKETED
WITHOUT AN APPROVED APPLICATION.—Non-
prescription drugs marketed without an ap-
proved drug application under section 505, as
of the date of the enactment of this section,
shall be treated in accordance with this sub-
section.
‘‘(1) DRUGS SUBJECT TO A FINAL MONOGRAPH;
CATEGORY I DRUGS SUBJECT TO A TENTATIVE
FINAL MONOGRAPH.—A drug is deemed to be
generally recognized as safe and effective
under section 201(p)(1), not a new drug under
section 201(p), and not subject to section
503(b)(1), if—
‘‘(A) the drug is—
‘‘(i) in conformity with the requirements
for nonprescription use of a final monograph
issued under part 330 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (except as provided in para-
graph (2)), the general requirements for non-
prescription drugs, and conditions or re-
quirements under subsections (b), (c), and
(k); and
‘‘(ii) except as permitted by an order issued
under subsection (b) or, in the case of a
minor change in the drug, in conformity
with an order issued under subsection (c), in
a dosage form that, immediately prior to the
date of the enactment of this section, has
been used to a material extent and for a ma-
terial time under section 201(p)(2); or
‘‘(B) the drug is—
‘‘(i) classified in category I for safety and
effectiveness under a tentative final mono-
graph that is the most recently applicable
proposal or determination issued under part
330 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations;
‘‘(ii) in conformity with the proposed re-
quirements for nonprescription use of such
tentative final monograph, any applicable
subsequent determination by the Secretary,
the general requirements for nonprescription
drugs, and conditions or requirements under
subsections (b), (c), and (k); and
‘‘(iii) except as permitted by an order
issued under subsection (b) or, in the case of
a minor change in the drug, in conformity
with an order issued under subsection (c), in
a dosage form that, immediately prior to the
date of the enactment of this section, has
been used to a material extent and for a ma-
terial time under section 201(p)(2).
‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF SUNSCREEN DRUGS.—
With respect to sunscreen drugs subject to
this section, the applicable requirements in
terms of conformity with a final monograph,
for purposes of paragraph (1)(A)(i), shall be
the requirements specified in part 352 of title
21, Code of Federal Regulations, as published
on May 21, 1999, beginning on page 27687 of
volume 64 of the Federal Register, except
that the applicable requirements governing
effectiveness and labeling shall be those
specified in section 201.327 of title 21, Code of
Federal Regulations.
‘‘(3) CATEGORY III DRUGS SUBJECT TO A TEN-
TATIVE FINAL MONOGRAPH; CATEGORY I DRUGS
SUBJECT TO PROPOSED MONOGRAPH OR AD-
VANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING.—A
drug that is not described in paragraph (1),
(2), or (4) is not required to be the subject of
an application approved under section 505,
and is not subject to section 503(b)(1), if—
‘‘(A) the drug is—
‘‘(i) classified in category III for safety or
effectiveness in the preamble of a proposed
rule establishing a tentative final mono-
graph that is the most recently applicable
proposal or determination for such drug
issued under part 330 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations;
‘‘(ii) in conformity with—
‘‘(I) the conditions of use, including indica-
tion and dosage strength, if any, described
for such category III drug in such preamble
or in an applicable subsequent proposed rule;
‘‘(II) the proposed requirements for drugs
classified in such tentative final monograph
in category I in the most recently proposed
rule establishing requirements related to
such tentative final monograph and in any
final rule establishing requirements that are
applicable to the drug; and
‘‘(III) the general requirements for non-
prescription drugs and conditions or require-
ments under subsection (b) or (k); and
‘‘(iii) in a dosage form that, immediately
prior to the date of the enactment of this
section, had been used to a material extent
and for a material time under section
201(p)(2); or
‘‘(B) the drug is—
‘‘(i) classified in category I for safety and
effectiveness under a proposed monograph or
advance notice of proposed rulemaking that
is the most recently applicable proposal or
determination for such drug issued under
part 330 of title 21, Code of Federal Regula-
tions;
‘‘(ii) in conformity with the requirements
for nonprescription use of such proposed
monograph or advance notice of proposed
rulemaking, any applicable subsequent de-
termination by the Secretary, the general
requirements for nonprescription drugs, and
conditions or requirements under subsection
(b) or (k); and
‘‘(iii) in a dosage form that, immediately
prior to the date of the enactment of this
section, has been used to a material extent
and for a material time under section
201(p)(2).
‘‘(4) CATEGORY II DRUGS DEEMED NEW
DRUGS.—A drug that is classified in category
II for safety or effectiveness under a ten-
tative final monograph or that is subject to
a determination to be not generally recog-
nized as safe and effective in a proposed rule
that is the most recently applicable proposal
issued under part 330 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, shall be deemed to be a
new drug under section 201(p), misbranded
under section 502(ee), and subject to the re-
quirement for an approved new drug applica-
tion under section 505 beginning on the day
that is 180 calendar days after the date of the
enactment of this section, unless, before
such day, the Secretary determines that it is
in the interest of public health to extend the
period during which the drug may be mar-
keted without such an approved new drug ap-
plication.
‘‘(5) DRUGS NOT GRASE DEEMED NEW
DRUGS.—A drug that the Secretary has deter-
mined not to be generally recognized as safe
and effective under section 201(p)(1) under a
final determination issued under part 330 of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, shall be
deemed to be a new drug under section 201(p),
misbranded under section 502(ee), and subject
to the requirement for an approved new drug
application under section 505.
‘‘(6) OTHER DRUGS DEEMED NEW DRUGS.—Ex-
cept as provided in subsection (m), a drug is
deemed to be a new drug under section 201(p)
and misbranded under section 502(ee) if the
drug—
‘‘(A) is not subject to section 503(b)(1); and
‘‘(B) is not described in paragraph (1), (2),
(3), (4), or (5), or subsection (b)(1)(B).
‘‘(b) ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(A) DETERMINATION.—The Secretary may,
on the initiative of the Secretary or at the
request of one or more requestors, issue an
administrative order determining whether
there are conditions under which a specific
drug, a class of drugs, or a combination of
drugs, is determined to be—
‘‘(i) not subject to section 503(b)(1); and
‘‘(ii) generally recognized as safe and effec-
tive under section 201(p)(1).
‘‘(B) EFFECT.—A drug or combination of
drugs shall be deemed to not require ap-
proval under section 505 if such drug or com-
bination of drugs—
‘‘(i) is determined by the Secretary to meet
the conditions specified in clauses (i) and (ii)
of subparagraph (A);
‘‘(ii) is marketed in conformity with an ad-
ministrative order under this subsection;
‘‘(iii) meets the general requirements for
nonprescription drugs; and
‘‘(iv) meets the requirements under sub-
sections (c) and (k).
‘‘(C) STANDARD.—The Secretary shall find
that a drug is not generally recognized as
safe and effective under section 201(p)(1) if—
‘‘(i) the evidence shows that the drug is not
generally recognized as safe and effective
under section 201(p)(1); or
‘‘(ii) the evidence is inadequate to show
that the drug is generally recognized as safe
and effective under section 201(p)(1).
‘‘(2) ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS INITIATED BY
THE SECRETARY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In issuing an adminis-
trative order under paragraph (1) upon the
Secretary’s initiative, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) make reasonable efforts to notify in-
formally, not later than 2 business days be-
fore the issuance of the proposed order, the
sponsors of drugs who have a listing in effect
under section 510(j) for the drugs or combina-
tion of drugs that will be subject to the ad-
ministrative order;
‘‘(ii) after any such reasonable efforts of
notification—
‘‘(I) issue a proposed administrative order
by publishing it on the website of the Food
and Drug Administration and include in such
order the reasons for the issuance of such
order; and
‘‘(II) publish a notice of availability of
such proposed order in the Federal Register;
‘‘(iii) except as provided in subparagraph
(B), provide for a public comment period
with respect to such proposed order of not
less than 45 calendar days; and
‘‘(iv) if, after completion of the pro-
ceedings specified in clauses (i) through (iii),
the Secretary determines that it is appro-
priate to issue a final administrative order—
‘‘(I) issue the final administrative order,
together with a detailed statement of rea-
sons, which order shall not take effect until
the time for requesting judicial review under
paragraph (3)(D)(ii) has expired;
‘‘(II) publish a notice of such final adminis-
trative order in the Federal Register;
‘‘(III) afford requestors of drugs that will
be subject to such order the opportunity for
formal dispute resolution up to the level of
the Director of the Center for Drug Evalua-
tion and Research, which initially must be
requested within 45 calendar days of the
issuance of the order, and, for subsequent
levels of appeal, within 30 calendar days of
the prior decision; and
‘‘(IV) except with respect to drugs de-
scribed in paragraph (3)(B), upon completion
of the formal dispute resolution procedure,
inform the persons which sought such dis-
pute resolution of their right to request a
hearing.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—When issuing an admin-
istrative order under paragraph (1) on the
Secretary’s initiative proposing to deter-
mine that a drug described in subsection
(a)(3) is not generally recognized as safe and
effective under section 201(p)(1), the Sec-
retary shall follow the procedures in sub-
paragraph (A), except that—
‘‘(i) the proposed order shall include notice
of—
‘‘(I) the general categories of data the Sec-
retary has determined necessary to establish
that the drug is generally recognized as safe
and effective under section 201(p)(1); and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H255
January 8, 2019
‘‘(II) the format for submissions by inter-
ested persons;
‘‘(ii) the Secretary shall provide for a pub-
lic comment period of no less than 180 cal-
endar days with respect to such proposed
order, except when the Secretary deter-
mines, for good cause, that a shorter period
is in the interest of public health; and
‘‘(iii) any person who submits data in such
comment period shall include a certification
that the person has submitted all evidence
created, obtained, or received by that person
that is both within the categories of data
identified in the proposed order and relevant
to a determination as to whether the drug is
generally recognized as safe and effective
under section 201(p)(1).
‘‘(3) HEARINGS; JUDICIAL REVIEW.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Only a person who par-
ticipated in each stage of formal dispute res-
olution under subclause (III) of paragraph
(2)(A)(iv) of an administrative order with re-
spect to a drug may request a hearing con-
cerning a final administrative order issued
under such paragraph with respect to such
drug. If a hearing is sought, such person
must submit a request for a hearing, which
shall be based solely on information in the
administrative record, to the Secretary not
later than 30 calendar days after receiving
notice of the final decision of the formal dis-
pute resolution procedure.
‘‘(B) NO HEARING REQUIRED WITH RESPECT TO
ORDERS RELATING TO CERTAIN DRUGS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall not
be required to provide notice and an oppor-
tunity for a hearing pursuant to paragraph
(2)(A)(iv) if the final administrative order in-
volved relates to a drug—
‘‘(I) that is described in subsection
(a)(3)(A); and
‘‘(II) with respect to which no human or
non-human data studies relevant to the safe-
ty or effectiveness of such drug have been
submitted to the administrative record since
the issuance of the most recent tentative
final monograph relating to such drug.
‘‘(ii) HUMAN DATA STUDIES AND NON-HUMAN
DATA DEFINED.—In this subparagraph:
‘‘(I) The term ‘human data studies’ means
clinical trials of safety or effectiveness (in-
cluding actual use studies), pharmaco-
kinetics studies, or bioavailability studies.
‘‘(II) The term ‘non-human data’ means
data from testing other than with human
subjects which provides information con-
cerning safety or effectiveness.
‘‘(C) HEARING PROCEDURES.—
‘‘(i) DENIAL OF REQUEST FOR HEARING.—If
the Secretary determines that information
submitted in a request for a hearing under
subparagraph (A) with respect to a final ad-
ministrative order issued under paragraph
(2)(A)(iv) does not identify the existence of a
genuine and substantial question of material
fact, the Secretary may deny such request.
In making such a determination, the Sec-
retary may consider only information and
data that are based on relevant and reliable
scientific principles and methodologies.
‘‘(ii) SINGLE HEARING FOR MULTIPLE RE-
LATED REQUESTS.—If more than one request
for a hearing is submitted with respect to
the same administrative order under sub-
paragraph (A), the Secretary may direct that
a single hearing be conducted in which all
persons whose hearing requests were granted
may participate.
‘‘(iii) PRESIDING OFFICER.—The presiding
officer of a hearing requested under subpara-
graph (A) shall—
‘‘(I) be designated by the Secretary;
‘‘(II) not be an employee of the Center for
Drug Evaluation and Research; and
‘‘(III) not have been previously involved in
the development of the administrative order
involved or proceedings relating to that ad-
ministrative order.
‘‘(iv) RIGHTS OF PARTIES TO HEARING.—The
parties to a hearing requested under sub-
paragraph (A) shall have the right to present
testimony, including testimony of expert
witnesses, and to cross-examine witnesses
presented by other parties. Where appro-
priate, the presiding officer may require that
cross-examination by parties representing
substantially the same interests be consoli-
dated to promote efficiency and avoid dupli-
cation.
‘‘(v) FINAL DECISION.—
‘‘(I) At the conclusion of a hearing re-
quested under subparagraph (A), the pre-
siding officer of the hearing shall issue a de-
cision containing findings of fact and conclu-
sions of law. The decision of the presiding of-
ficer shall be final.
‘‘(II) The final decision may not take effect
until the period under subparagraph (D)(ii)
for submitting a request for judicial review
of such decision expires.
‘‘(D) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF FINAL ADMINISTRA-
TIVE ORDER.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The procedures described
in section 505(h) shall apply with respect to
judicial review of final administrative orders
issued under this subsection in the same
manner and to the same extent as such sec-
tion applies to an order described in such
section except that the judicial review shall
be taken by filing in an appropriate district
court of the United States in lieu of the ap-
pellate courts specified in such section.
‘‘(ii) PERIOD TO SUBMIT A REQUEST FOR JUDI-
CIAL REVIEW.—A person eligible to request a
hearing under this paragraph and seeking ju-
dicial review of a final administrative order
issued under this subsection shall file such
request for judicial review not later than 60
calendar days after the latest of—
‘‘(I) the date on which notice of such order
is published;
‘‘(II) the date on which a hearing with re-
spect to such order is denied under subpara-
graph (B) or (C)(i);
‘‘(III) the date on which a final decision is
made following a hearing under subpara-
graph (C)(v); or
‘‘(IV) if no hearing is requested, the date
on which the time for requesting a hearing
expires.
‘‘(4) EXPEDITED PROCEDURE WITH RESPECT
TO ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS INITIATED BY THE
SECRETARY.—
‘‘(A) IMMINENT HAZARD TO THE PUBLIC
HEALTH.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a deter-
mination by the Secretary that a drug, class
of drugs, or combination of drugs subject to
this section poses an imminent hazard to the
public health, the Secretary, after first mak-
ing reasonable efforts to notify, not later
than 48 hours before issuance of such order
under this subparagraph, sponsors who have
a listing in effect under section 510(j) for
such drug or combination of drugs—
‘‘(I) may issue an interim final administra-
tive order for such drug, class of drugs, or
combination of drugs under paragraph (1),
together with a detailed statement of the
reasons for such order;
‘‘(II) shall publish in the Federal Register
a notice of availability of any such order;
and
‘‘(III) shall provide for a public comment
period of at least 45 calendar days with re-
spect to such interim final order.
‘‘(ii) NONDELEGATION.—The Secretary may
not delegate the authority to issue an in-
terim final administrative order under this
subparagraph.
‘‘(B) SAFETY LABELING CHANGES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a deter-
mination by the Secretary that a change in
the labeling of a drug, class of drugs, or com-
bination of drugs subject to this section is
reasonably expected to mitigate a signifi-
cant or unreasonable risk of a serious ad-
verse event associated with use of the drug,
the Secretary may—
‘‘(I) make reasonable efforts to notify in-
formally, not later than 48 hours before the
issuance of the interim final order, the spon-
sors of drugs who have a listing in effect
under section 510(j) for such drug or com-
bination of drugs;
‘‘(II) after reasonable efforts of notifica-
tion, issue an interim final administrative
order in accordance with paragraph (1) to re-
quire such change, together with a detailed
statement of the reasons for such order;
‘‘(III) publish in the Federal Register a no-
tice of availability of such order; and
‘‘(IV) provide for a public comment period
of at least 45 calendar days with respect to
such interim final order.
‘‘(ii) CONTENT OF ORDER.—An interim final
order issued under this subparagraph with
respect to the labeling of a drug may provide
for new warnings and other information re-
quired for safe use of the drug.
‘‘(C) EFFECTIVE DATE.—An order under sub-
paragraph (A) or (B) shall take effect on a
date specified by the Secretary.
‘‘(D) FINAL ORDER.—After the completion
of the proceedings in subparagraph (A) or
(B), the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) issue a final order in accordance with
paragraph (1);
‘‘(ii) publish a notice of availability of such
final administrative order in the Federal
Register; and
‘‘(iii) afford sponsors of such drugs that
will be subject to such an order the oppor-
tunity for formal dispute resolution up to
the level of the Director of the Center for
Drug Evaluation and Research, which must
initially be within 45 calendar days of the
issuance of the order, and for subsequent lev-
els of appeal, within 30 calendar days of the
prior decision.
‘‘(E) HEARINGS.—A sponsor of a drug sub-
ject to a final order issued under subpara-
graph (D) and that participated in each stage
of formal dispute resolution under clause
(iii) of such subparagraph may request a
hearing on such order. The provisions of sub-
paragraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (3),
other than paragraph (3)(C)(v)(II), shall
apply with respect to a hearing on such order
in the same manner and to the same extent
as such provisions apply with respect to a
hearing on an administrative order issued
under paragraph (2)(A)(iv).
‘‘(F) TIMING.—
‘‘(i) FINAL ORDER AND HEARING.—The Sec-
retary shall—
‘‘(I) not later than 6 months after the date
on which the comment period closes under
subparagraph (A) or (B), issue a final order in
accordance with paragraph (1); and
‘‘(II) not later than 12 months after the
date on which such final order is issued,
complete any hearing under subparagraph
(E).
‘‘(ii) DISPUTE RESOLUTION REQUEST.—The
Secretary shall specify in an interim final
order issued under subparagraph (A) or (B)
such shorter periods for requesting dispute
resolution under subparagraph (D)(iii) as are
necessary to meet the requirements of this
subparagraph.
‘‘(G) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—A final order issued
pursuant to subparagraph (F) shall be sub-
ject to judicial review in accordance with
paragraph (3)(D).
‘‘(5) ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER INITIATED AT
THE REQUEST OF A REQUESTOR.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In issuing an adminis-
trative order under paragraph (1) at the re-
quest of a requestor with respect to certain
drugs, classes of drugs, or combinations of
drugs—
‘‘(i) the Secretary shall, after receiving a
request under this subparagraph, determine
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H256 January 8, 2019
whether the request is sufficiently complete
and formatted to permit a substantive re-
view;
‘‘(ii) if the Secretary determines that the
request is sufficiently complete and for-
matted to permit a substantive review, the
Secretary shall—
‘‘(I) file the request; and
‘‘(II) initiate proceedings with respect to
issuing an administrative order in accord-
ance with paragraphs (2) and (3); and
‘‘(iii) except as provided in paragraph (6), if
the Secretary determines that a request does
not meet the requirements for filing or is not
sufficiently complete and formatted to per-
mit a substantive review, the requestor may
demand that the request be filed over pro-
test, and the Secretary shall initiate pro-
ceedings to review the request in accordance
with paragraph (2)(A).
‘‘(B) REQUEST TO INITIATE PROCEEDINGS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A requestor seeking an
administrative order under paragraph (1)
with respect to certain drugs, classes of
drugs, or combinations of drugs, shall submit
to the Secretary a request to initiate pro-
ceedings for such order in the form and man-
ner as specified by the Secretary. Such re-
questor may submit a request under this
subparagraph for the issuance of an adminis-
trative order—
‘‘(I) determining whether a drug is gen-
erally recognized as safe and effective under
section 201(p)(1), exempt from section
503(b)(1), and not required to be the subject
of an approved application under section 505;
or
‘‘(II) determining whether a change to a
condition of use of a drug is generally recog-
nized as safe and effective under section
201(p)(1), exempt from section 503(b)(1), and
not required to be the subject of an approved
application under section 505, if, absent such
a changed condition of use, such drug is—
‘‘(aa) generally recognized as safe and ef-
fective under section 201(p)(1) in accordance
with subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or an order
under this subsection; or
‘‘(bb) subject to subsection (a)(3), but only
if such requestor initiates such request in
conjunction with a request for the Secretary
to determine whether such drug is generally
recognized as safe and effective under sec-
tion 201(p)(1), which is filed by the Secretary
under subparagraph (A)(ii).
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary is not re-
quired to complete review of a request for a
change described in clause (i)(II) if the Sec-
retary determines that there is an inad-
equate basis to find the drug is generally rec-
ognized as safe and effective under section
201(p)(1) under paragraph (1) and issues a
final order announcing that determination.
‘‘(iii) WITHDRAWAL.—The requestor may
withdraw a request under this paragraph, ac-
cording to the procedures set forth pursuant
to subsection (d)(2)(B). Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, if such re-
quest is withdrawn, the Secretary may cease
proceedings under this subparagraph.
‘‘(C) EXCLUSIVITY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A final administrative
order issued in response to a request under
this section shall have the effect of author-
izing solely the order requestor (or the li-
censees, assignees, or successors in interest
of such requestor with respect to the subject
of such order), for a period of 18 months fol-
lowing the effective date of such final order
and beginning on the date the requestor may
lawfully market such drugs pursuant to the
order, to market drugs—
‘‘(I) incorporating changes described in
clause (ii); and
‘‘(II) subject to the limitations under
clause (iv).
‘‘(ii) CHANGES DESCRIBED.—A change de-
scribed in this clause is a change subject to
an order specified in clause (i), which—
‘‘(I) provides for a drug to contain an ac-
tive ingredient (including any ester or salt of
the active ingredient) not previously incor-
porated in a drug described in clause (iii); or
‘‘(II) provides for a change in the condi-
tions of use of a drug, for which new human
data studies conducted or sponsored by the
requestor (or for which the requestor has an
exclusive right of reference) were essential
to the issuance of such order.
‘‘(iii) DRUGS DESCRIBED.—The drugs de-
scribed in this clause are drugs—
‘‘(I) specified in subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or
(a)(3);
‘‘(II) subject to a final order issued under
this section;
‘‘(III) subject to a final sunscreen order (as
defined in section 586(2)(A)); or
‘‘(IV) described in subsection (m)(1), other
than drugs subject to an active enforcement
action under chapter III of this Act.
‘‘(iv) LIMITATIONS ON EXCLUSIVITY.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Only one 18-month pe-
riod under this subparagraph shall be grant-
ed, under each order described in clause (i),
with respect to changes (to the drug subject
to such order) which are either—
‘‘(aa) changes described in clause (ii)(I), re-
lating to active ingredients; or
‘‘(bb) changes described in clause (ii)(II),
relating to conditions of use.
‘‘(II) NO EXCLUSIVITY ALLOWED.—No exclu-
sivity shall apply to changes to a drug which
are—
‘‘(aa) the subject of a Tier 2 OTC mono-
graph order request (as defined in section
744L);
‘‘(bb) safety-related changes, as defined by
the Secretary, or any other changes the Sec-
retary considers necessary to assure safe use;
or
‘‘(cc) changes related to methods of testing
safety or efficacy.
‘‘(v) NEW HUMAN DATA STUDIES DEFINED.—In
this subparagraph, the term ‘new human
data studies’ means clinical trials of safety
or effectiveness (including actual use stud-
ies), pharmacokinetics studies, or bio-
availability studies, the results of which—
‘‘(I) have not been relied on by the Sec-
retary to support—
‘‘(aa) a proposed or final determination
that a drug described in subclause (I), (II), or
(III) of clause (iii) is generally recognized as
safe and effective under section 201(p)(1); or
‘‘(bb) approval of a drug that was approved
under section 505; and
‘‘(II) do not duplicate the results of an-
other study that was relied on by the Sec-
retary to support—
‘‘(aa) a proposed or final determination
that a drug described in subclause (I), (II), or
(III) of clause (iii) is generally recognized as
safe and effective under section 201(p)(1); or
‘‘(bb) approval of a drug that was approved
under section 505.
‘‘(6) INFORMATION REGARDING SAFE NON-
PRESCRIPTION MARKETING AND USE AS CONDI-
TION FOR FILING A GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE REQUEST.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In response to a request
under this section that a drug described in
subparagraph (B) be generally recognized as
safe and effective, the Secretary—
‘‘(i) may file such request, if the request
includes information specified under sub-
paragraph (C) with respect to safe non-
prescription marketing and use of such drug;
or
‘‘(ii) if the request fails to include informa-
tion specified under subparagraph (C), shall
refuse to file such request and require that
nonprescription marketing of the drug be
pursuant to a new drug application as de-
scribed in subparagraph (D).
‘‘(B) DRUG DESCRIBED.—A drug described in
this subparagraph is a nonprescription drug
which contains an active ingredient not pre-
viously incorporated in a drug—
‘‘(i) specified in subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or
(a)(3);
‘‘(ii) subject to a final order under this sec-
tion; or
‘‘(iii) subject to a final sunscreen order (as
defined in section 586(2)(A)).
‘‘(C) INFORMATION DEMONSTRATING PRIMA
FACIE SAFE NONPRESCRIPTION MARKETING AND
USE.—Information specified in this subpara-
graph, with respect to a request described in
subparagraph (A)(i), is—
‘‘(i) information sufficient for a prima
facie demonstration that the drug subject to
such request has a verifiable history of being
marketed and safely used by consumers in
the United States as a nonprescription drug
under comparable conditions of use;
‘‘(ii) if the drug has not been previously
marketed in the United States as a non-
prescription drug, information sufficient for
a prima facie demonstration that the drug
was marketed and safely used under com-
parable conditions of marketing and use in a
country listed in section 802(b)(1)(A) or des-
ignated by the Secretary in accordance with
section 802(b)(1)(B)—
‘‘(I) for such period as needed to provide
reasonable assurances concerning the safe
nonprescription use of the drug; and
‘‘(II) during such time was subject to suffi-
cient monitoring by a regulatory body con-
sidered acceptable by the Secretary for such
monitoring purposes, including for adverse
events associated with nonprescription use
of the drug; or
‘‘(iii) if the Secretary determines that in-
formation described in clause (i) or (ii) is not
needed to provide a prima facie demonstra-
tion that the drug can be safely marketed
and used as a nonprescription drug, such
other information the Secretary determines
is sufficient for such purposes.
‘‘(D) MARKETING PURSUANT TO NEW DRUG
APPLICATION.—In the case of a request de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(ii), the drug sub-
ject to such request may be resubmitted for
filing only if—
‘‘(i) the drug is marketed as a nonprescrip-
tion drug, under conditions of use com-
parable to the conditions specified in the re-
quest, for such period as the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate (not to exceed 5 consecu-
tive years) pursuant to an application ap-
proved under section 505; and
‘‘(ii) during such period, 1,000,000 retail
packages of the drug, or an equivalent quan-
tity as determined by the Secretary, were
distributed for retail sale, as determined in
such manner as the Secretary finds appro-
priate.
‘‘(E) RULE OF APPLICATION.—Except in the
case of a request involving a drug described
in section 586(9), as in effect on January 1,
2017, if the Secretary refuses to file a request
under this paragraph, the requestor may not
file such request over protest under para-
graph (5)(A)(iii).
‘‘(7) PACKAGING.—An administrative order
issued under paragraph (2), (4)(A), or (5) may
include requirements for the packaging of a
drug to encourage use in accordance with la-
beling. Such requirements may include unit
dose packaging, requirements for products
intended for use by pediatric populations, re-
quirements to reduce risk of harm from un-
supervised ingestion, and other appropriate
requirements. This paragraph does not au-
thorize the Food and Drug Administration to
require standards or testing procedures as
described in part 1700 of title 16, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations.
‘‘(8) FINAL AND TENTATIVE FINAL MONO-
GRAPHS FOR CATEGORY I DRUGS DEEMED FINAL
ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H257
January 8, 2019
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A final monograph or
tentative final monograph described in sub-
paragraph (B) shall be deemed to be a final
administrative order under this subsection
and may be amended, revoked, or otherwise
modified in accordance with the procedures
of this subsection.
‘‘(B) MONOGRAPHS DESCRIBED.—For pur-
poses of subparagraph (A), a final monograph
or tentative final monograph is described in
this subparagraph if it—
‘‘(i) establishes conditions of use for a drug
described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection
(a); and
‘‘(ii) represents the most recently promul-
gated version of such conditions, including
as modified, in whole or in part, by any pro-
posed or final rule.
‘‘(C) DEEMED ORDERS INCLUDE HARMONIZING
TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—The deemed estab-
lishment of a final administrative order
under subparagraph (A) shall be construed to
include any technical amendments to such
order as the Secretary determines necessary
to ensure that such order is appropriately
harmonized, in terms of terminology or
cross-references, with the applicable provi-
sions of this Act (and regulations there-
under) and any other orders issued under this
section.
‘‘(c) PROCEDURE FOR MINOR CHANGES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Minor changes in the
dosage form of a drug that is described in
paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a) or the
subject of an order issued under subsection
(b) may be made by a requestor without the
issuance of an order under subsection (b) if—
‘‘(A) the requestor maintains such infor-
mation as is necessary to demonstrate that
the change—
‘‘(i) will not affect the safety or effective-
ness of the drug; and
‘‘(ii) will not materially affect the extent
of absorption or other exposure to the active
ingredient in comparison to a suitable ref-
erence product; and
‘‘(B) the change is in conformity with the
requirements of an applicable administrative
order issued by the Secretary under para-
graph (3).
‘‘(2) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—
‘‘(A) ACCESS TO RECORDS.—A sponsor shall
submit records requested by the Secretary
relating to such a minor change under sec-
tion 704(a)(4), within 15 business days of re-
ceiving such a request, or such longer period
as the Secretary may provide.
‘‘(B) INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION.—If the
Secretary determines that the information
contained in such records is not sufficient to
demonstrate that the change does not affect
the safety or effectiveness of the drug or ma-
terially affect the extent of absorption or
other exposure to the active ingredient, the
Secretary—
‘‘(i) may so inform the sponsor of the drug
in writing; and
‘‘(ii) if the Secretary so informs the spon-
sor, shall provide the sponsor of the drug
with a reasonable opportunity to provide ad-
ditional information.
‘‘(C) FAILURE TO SUBMIT SUFFICIENT INFOR-
MATION.—If the sponsor fails to provide such
additional information within a time pre-
scribed by the Secretary, or if the Secretary
determines that such additional information
does not demonstrate that the change does
not—
‘‘(i) affect the safety or effectiveness of the
drug; or
‘‘(ii) materially affect the extent of absorp-
tion or other exposure to the active ingre-
dient in comparison to a suitable reference
product,
the drug as modified is a new drug under sec-
tion 201(p) and shall be deemed to be mis-
branded under section 502(ee).
‘‘(3) DETERMINING WHETHER A CHANGE WILL
AFFECT SAFETY OR EFFECTIVENESS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
issue one or more administrative orders
specifying requirements for determining
whether a minor change made by a sponsor
pursuant to this subsection will affect the
safety or effectiveness of a drug or materi-
ally affect the extent of absorption or other
exposure to an active ingredient in the drug
in comparison to a suitable reference prod-
uct, together with guidance for applying
those orders to specific dosage forms.
‘‘(B) STANDARD PRACTICES.—The orders and
guidance issued by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall take into account rel-
evant public standards and standard prac-
tices for evaluating the quality of drugs, and
may take into account the special needs of
populations, including children.
‘‘(d) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION SUB-
MITTED TO THE SECRETARY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
any information, including reports of testing
conducted on the drug or drugs involved,
that is submitted by a requestor in connec-
tion with proceedings on an order under this
section (including any minor change under
subsection (c)) and is a trade secret or con-
fidential information subject to section
552(b)(4) of title 5, United States Code, or sec-
tion 1905 of title 18, United States Code, shall
not be disclosed to the public unless the re-
questor consents to that disclosure.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) make any information submitted by a
requestor in support of a request under sub-
section (b)(5)(A) available to the public not
later than the date on which the proposed
order is issued; and
‘‘(ii) make any information submitted by
any other person with respect to an order re-
quested (or initiated by the Secretary) under
subsection (b), available to the public upon
such submission.
‘‘(B) LIMITATIONS ON PUBLIC AVAIL-
ABILITY.—Information described in subpara-
graph (A) shall not be made public if—
‘‘(i) the information pertains to pharma-
ceutical quality information, unless such in-
formation is necessary to establish standards
under which a drug is generally recognized
as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1);
‘‘(ii) the information is submitted in a re-
questor-initiated request, but the requestor
withdraws such request, in accordance with
withdrawal procedures established by the
Secretary, before the Secretary issues the
proposed order;
‘‘(iii) the Secretary requests and obtains
the information under subsection (c) and
such information is not submitted in rela-
tion to an order under subsection (b); or
‘‘(iv) the information is of the type con-
tained in raw datasets.
‘‘(e) UPDATES TO DRUG LISTING INFORMA-
TION.—A sponsor who makes a change to a
drug subject to this section shall submit up-
dated drug listing information for the drug
in accordance with section 510(j) within 30
calendar days of the date when the drug is
first commercially marketed, except that a
sponsor who was the order requestor with re-
spect to an order subject to subsection
(b)(5)(C) (or a licensee, assignee, or successor
in interest of such requestor) shall submit
updated drug listing information on or be-
fore the date when the drug is first commer-
cially marketed.
‘‘(f) APPROVALS UNDER SECTION 505.—The
provisions of this section shall not be con-
strued to preclude a person from seeking or
maintaining the approval of an application
for a drug under sections 505(b)(1), 505(b)(2),
and 505(j). A determination under this sec-
tion that a drug is not subject to section
503(b)(1), is generally recognized as safe and
effective under section 201(p)(1), and is not a
new drug under section 201(p) shall con-
stitute a finding that the drug is safe and ef-
fective that may be relied upon for purposes
of an application under section 505(b)(2), so
that the applicant shall be required to sub-
mit for purposes of such application only in-
formation needed to support any modifica-
tion of the drug that is not covered by such
determination under this section.
‘‘(g) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF ADMINISTRA-
TIVE ORDERS.—The Secretary shall establish,
maintain, update (as determined necessary
by the Secretary but no less frequently than
annually), and make publicly available, with
respect to orders issued under this section—
‘‘(1) a repository of each final order and in-
terim final order in effect, including the
complete text of the order; and
‘‘(2) a listing of all orders proposed and
under development under subsection (b)(2),
including—
‘‘(A) a brief description of each such order;
and
‘‘(B) the Secretary’s expectations, if re-
sources permit, for issuance of proposed or-
ders over a 3-year period.
‘‘(h) DEVELOPMENT ADVICE TO SPONSORS OR
REQUESTORS.—The Secretary shall establish
procedures under which sponsors or reques-
tors may meet with appropriate officials of
the Food and Drug Administration to obtain
advice on the studies and other information
necessary to support submissions under this
section and other matters relevant to the
regulation of nonprescription drugs and the
development of new nonprescription drugs
under this section.
‘‘(i) PARTICIPATION OF MULTIPLE SPONSORS
OR REQUESTORS.—The Secretary shall estab-
lish procedures to facilitate efficient partici-
pation by multiple sponsors or requestors in
proceedings under this section, including
provision for joint meetings with multiple
sponsors or requestors or with organizations
nominated by sponsors or requestors to rep-
resent their interests in a proceeding.
‘‘(j) ELECTRONIC FORMAT.—All submissions
under this section shall be in electronic for-
mat.
‘‘(k) EFFECT ON EXISTING REGULATIONS
GOVERNING NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.—
‘‘(1) REGULATIONS OF GENERAL APPLICA-
BILITY TO NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.—Except
as provided in this subsection, nothing in
this section supersedes regulations estab-
lishing general requirements for non-
prescription drugs, including regulations of
general applicability contained in parts 201,
250, and 330 of title 21, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, or any successor regulations. The
Secretary shall establish or modify such reg-
ulations by means of rulemaking in accord-
ance with section 553 of title 5, United States
Code.
‘‘(2) REGULATIONS ESTABLISHING REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR SPECIFIC NONPRESCRIPTION
DRUGS.—
‘‘(A) The provisions of section 310.545 of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, as in
effect on the day before the date of the en-
actment of this section, shall be deemed to
be a final order under subsection (b).
‘‘(B) Regulations in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this sec-
tion, establishing requirements for specific
nonprescription drugs marketed pursuant to
this section (including such requirements in
parts 201 and 250 of title 21, Code of Federal
Regulations), shall be deemed to be final or-
ders under subsection (b), only as they apply
to drugs—
‘‘(i) subject to paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4)
of subsection (a); or
‘‘(ii) otherwise subject to an order under
this section.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:44 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H258 January 8, 2019
‘‘(3) WITHDRAWAL OF REGULATIONS.—The
Secretary shall withdraw regulations estab-
lishing final monographs and the procedures
governing the over-the-counter drug review
under part 330 and other relevant parts of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (as in
effect on the day before the date of the en-
actment of this section), or make technical
changes to such regulations to ensure con-
formity with appropriate terminology and
cross references. Notwithstanding sub-
chapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United
States Code, any such withdrawal or tech-
nical changes shall be made without public
notice and comment and shall be effective
upon publication through notice in the Fed-
eral Register (or upon such date as specified
in such notice).
‘‘(l) GUIDANCE.—The Secretary shall issue
guidance that specifies—
‘‘(1) the procedures and principles for for-
mal meetings between the Secretary and
sponsors or requestors for drugs subject to
this section;
‘‘(2) the format and content of data sub-
missions to the Secretary under this section;
‘‘(3) the format of electronic submissions
to the Secretary under this section;
‘‘(4) consolidated proceedings for appeal
and the procedures for such proceedings
where appropriate; and
‘‘(5) for minor changes in drugs, rec-
ommendations on how to comply with the
requirements in orders issued under sub-
section (c)(3).
‘‘(m) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—This section shall not af-
fect the treatment or status of a non-
prescription drug—
‘‘(A) that is marketed without an applica-
tion approved under section 505 as of the
date of the enactment of this section;
‘‘(B) that is not subject to an order issued
under this section; and
‘‘(C) to which paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), or
(5) of subsection (a) do not apply.
‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF PRODUCTS PREVIOUSLY
FOUND TO BE SUBJECT TO TIME AND EXTENT RE-
QUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) Notwithstanding subsection (a), a
drug described in subparagraph (B) may only
be lawfully marketed, without an applica-
tion approved under section 505, pursuant to
an order issued under this section.
‘‘(B) A drug described in this subparagraph
is a drug which, prior to the date of the en-
actment of this section, the Secretary deter-
mined in a proposed or final rule to be ineli-
gible for review under the OTC drug review
(as such phrase ‘OTC drug review’ was used
in section 330.14 of title 21, Code of Federal
Regulations, as in effect on the day before
the date of the enactment of this section).
‘‘(3) PRESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(A) Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be con-
strued to preclude or limit the applicability
of any provision of this Act other than this
section.
‘‘(B) Nothing in subsection (a) shall be con-
strued to prohibit the Secretary from issuing
an order under this section finding a drug to
be not generally recognized as safe and effec-
tive under section 201(p)(1), as the Secretary
determines appropriate.
‘‘(n) INVESTIGATIONAL NEW DRUGS.—A drug
is not subject to this section if an exemption
for investigational use under section 505(i) is
in effect for such drug.
‘‘(o) INAPPLICABILITY OF PAPERWORK RE-
DUCTION ACT.—Chapter 35 of title 44, United
States Code, shall not apply to collections of
information made under this section.
‘‘(p) INAPPLICABILITY OF NOTICE AND COM-
MENT RULEMAKING AND OTHER REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The requirements of subsection (b)
shall apply with respect to orders issued
under this section instead of the require-
ments of subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5,
United States Code.
‘‘(q) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘nonprescription drug’ refers
to a drug not subject to the requirements of
section 503(b)(1).
‘‘(2) The term ‘sponsor’ refers to any per-
son marketing, manufacturing, or processing
a drug that—
‘‘(A) is listed pursuant to section 510(j);
and
‘‘(B) is or will be subject to an administra-
tive order under this section of the Food and
Drug Administration.
‘‘(3) The term ‘requestor’ refers to any per-
son or group of persons marketing, manufac-
turing, processing, or developing a drug.’’.
(b) GAO STUDY.—Not later than 4 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit a study to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Sen-
ate addressing the effectiveness and overall
impact of exclusivity under section 505G of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act,
as added by subsection (a), and section 586C
of such Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–3), including the
impact of such exclusivity on consumer ac-
cess. Such study shall include—
(1) an analysis of the impact of exclusivity
under such section 505G for nonprescription
drug products, including—
(A) the number of nonprescription drug
products that were granted exclusivity and
the indication for which the nonprescription
drug products were determined to be gen-
erally recognized as safe and effective;
(B) whether the exclusivity for such drug
products was granted for—
(i) a new active ingredient (including any
ester or salt of the active ingredient); or
(ii) changes in the conditions of use of a
drug, for which new human data studies con-
ducted or sponsored by the requestor were
essential;
(C) whether, and to what extent, the exclu-
sivity impacted the requestor’s or sponsor’s
decision to develop the drug product;
(D) an analysis of the implementation of
the exclusivity provision in such section
505G, including—
(i) the resources used by the Food and Drug
Administration;
(ii) the impact of such provision on innova-
tion, as well as research and development in
the nonprescription drug market;
(iii) the impact of such provision on com-
petition in the nonprescription drug market;
(iv) the impact of such provision on con-
sumer access to nonprescription drug prod-
ucts;
(v) the impact of such provision on the
prices of nonprescription drug products; and
(vi) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 505G
have been sufficient to encourage the devel-
opment of nonprescription drug products
that would likely not be otherwise devel-
oped, or developed in as timely a manner;
and
(E) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 505G
have been sufficient incentive to encourage
innovation in the nonprescription drug mar-
ket; and
(2) an analysis of the impact of exclusivity
under such section 586C for sunscreen ingre-
dients, including—
(A) the number of sunscreen ingredients
that were granted exclusivity and the spe-
cific ingredient that was determined to be
generally recognized as safe and effective;
(B) whether, and to what extent, the exclu-
sivity impacted the requestor’s or sponsor’s
decision to develop the sunscreen ingredient;
(C) whether, and to what extent, the sun-
screen ingredient granted exclusivity had
previously been available outside of the
United States;
(D) an analysis of the implementation of
the exclusivity provision in such section
586C, including—
(i) the resources used by the Food and Drug
Administration;
(ii) the impact of such provision on innova-
tion, as well as research and development in
the sunscreen market;
(iii) the impact of such provision on com-
petition in the sunscreen market;
(iv) the impact of such provision on con-
sumer access to sunscreen products;
(v) the impact of such provision on the
prices of sunscreen products; and
(vi) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 505G
have been utilized by sunscreen ingredient
sponsors and whether such process has been
sufficient to encourage the development of
sunscreen ingredients that would likely not
be otherwise developed, or developed in as
timely a manner; and
(E) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 586C
have been sufficient incentive to encourage
innovation in the sunscreen market.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
751(d)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act (21 U.S.C. 379r(d)(1)) is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘final regulation promul-
gated’’ and inserting ‘‘final order under sec-
tion 505G’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘and not misbranded’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘regu-
lation in effect’’ and inserting ‘‘regulation or
order in effect’’.
SEC. 1002. MISBRANDING.
Section 502 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 352) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ee) If it is a nonprescription drug that is
subject to section 505G, is not the subject of
an application approved under section 505,
and does not comply with the requirements
under section 505G.
‘‘(ff) If it is a drug and it was manufac-
tured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or
processed in a facility for which fees have
not been paid as required by section 744M.’’.
SEC. 1003. DRUGS EXCLUDED FROM THE OVER-
THE-COUNTER DRUG REVIEW.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this Act (or
the amendments made by this Act) shall
apply to any nonprescription drug (as de-
fined in section 505G(q) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by section
1001 of this Act) which was excluded by the
Food and Drug Administration from the
Over-the-Counter Drug Review in accordance
with the paragraph numbered 25 on page 9466
of volume 37 of the Federal Register, pub-
lished on May 11, 1972.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to preclude or
limit the applicability of any other provision
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.).
SEC. 1004. TREATMENT OF SUNSCREEN INNOVA-
TION ACT.
(a) REVIEW OF NONPRESCRIPTION SUNSCREEN
ACTIVE INGREDIENTS.—
(1) APPLICABILITY OF SECTION 505G FOR PEND-
ING SUBMISSIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A sponsor of a non-
prescription sunscreen active ingredient or
combination of nonprescription sunscreen
active ingredients that, as of the date of en-
actment of this Act, is subject to a proposed
sunscreen order under section 586C of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 360fff–3) may elect, by means of giving
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H259
January 8, 2019
written notification to the Secretary of
Health and Human Services within 180 cal-
endar days of the enactment of this Act, to
transition into the review of such ingredient
or combination of ingredients pursuant to
the process set out in section 505G of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as
added by section 1001 of this Act.
(B) ELECTION EXERCISED.—Upon receipt by
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
of a timely notification under subparagraph
(A)—
(i) the proposed sunscreen order involved is
deemed to be a request for an order under
subsection (b) of section 505G of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by
section 1001 of this Act; and
(ii) such order is deemed to have been ac-
cepted for filing under subsection (b)(6)(A)(i)
of such section 505G.
(C) ELECTION NOT EXERCISED.—If a notifica-
tion under subparagraph (A) is not received
by the Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices within 180 calendar days of the date of
enactment of this Act, the review of the pro-
posed sunscreen order described in subpara-
graph (A)—
(i) shall continue under section 586C of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 360fff–3); and
(ii) shall not be eligible for review under
section 505G, added by section 1001 of this
Act.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the
terms ‘‘sponsor’’, ‘‘nonprescription’’, ‘‘sun-
screen active ingredient’’, and ‘‘proposed
sunscreen order’’ have the meanings given to
those terms in section 586 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
360fff).
(b) AMENDMENTS TO SUNSCREEN PROVI-
SIONS.—
(1) FINAL SUNSCREEN ORDERS.—Paragraph
(3) of section 586C(e) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–3(e))
is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(3) RELATIONSHIP TO ORDERS UNDER SEC-
TION 505G.—A final sunscreen order shall be
deemed to be a final order under section
505G.’’.
(2) MEETINGS.—Paragraph (7) of section
586C(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–3(b)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘A sponsor may request’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A sponsor may request’’;
and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) CONFIDENTIAL MEETINGS.—A sponsor
may request one or more confidential meet-
ings with respect to a proposed sunscreen
order, including a letter deemed to be a pro-
posed sunscreen order under paragraph (3), to
discuss matters relating to data require-
ments to support a general recognition of
safety and effectiveness involving confiden-
tial information and public information re-
lated to such proposed sunscreen order, as
appropriate. The Secretary shall convene a
confidential meeting with such sponsor in a
reasonable time period. If a sponsor requests
more than one confidential meeting for the
same proposed sunscreen order, the Sec-
retary may refuse to grant an additional
confidential meeting request if the Secretary
determines that such additional confidential
meeting is not reasonably necessary for the
sponsor to advance its proposed sunscreen
order, or if the request for a confidential
meeting fails to include sufficient informa-
tion upon which to base a substantive discus-
sion. The Secretary shall publish a post-
meeting summary of each confidential meet-
ing under this subparagraph that does not
disclose confidential commercial informa-
tion or trade secrets. This subparagraph does
not authorize the disclosure of confidential
commercial information or trade secrets
subject to 552(b)(4) of title 5, United States
Code, or section 1905 of title 18, United
States Code.’’.
(3) EXCLUSIVITY.—Section 586C of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
360fff–3) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(f) EXCLUSIVITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A final sunscreen order
shall have the effect of authorizing solely
the order requestor (or the licensees, assign-
ees, or successors in interest of such re-
questor with respect to the subject of such
request and listed under paragraph (5)) for a
period of 18 months, to market a sunscreen
ingredient under this section incorporating
changes described in paragraph (2) subject to
the limitations under paragraph (4), begin-
ning on the date the requestor (or any licens-
ees, assignees, or successors in interest of
such requestor with respect to the subject of
such request and listed under paragraph (5))
may lawfully market such sunscreen ingre-
dient pursuant to the order.
‘‘(2) CHANGES DESCRIBED.—A change de-
scribed in this paragraph is a change subject
to an order specified in paragraph (1) that
permits a sunscreen to contain an active
sunscreen ingredient not previously incor-
porated in a marketed sunscreen listed in
paragraph (3).
‘‘(3) MARKETED SUNSCREEN.—The marketed
sunscreen ingredients described in this para-
graph are sunscreen ingredients—
‘‘(A) marketed in accordance with a final
monograph for sunscreen drug products set
forth at part 352 of title 21, Code of Federal
Regulations (as published at 64 Fed. Reg.
27687); or
‘‘(B) marketed in accordance with a final
order issued under this section.
‘‘(4) LIMITATIONS ON EXCLUSIVITY.—Only
one 18-month period may be granted per in-
gredient under paragraph (1).
‘‘(5) LISTING OF LICENSEES, ASSIGNEES, OR
SUCCESSORS IN INTEREST.—Requestors shall
submit to the Secretary at the time when a
drug subject to such request is introduced or
delivered for introduction into interstate
commerce, a list of licensees, assignees, or
successors in interest under paragraph (1).’’.
(4) SUNSET PROVISION.—Subchapter I of
chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 586H. SUNSET.
‘‘This subchapter shall cease to be effec-
tive at the end of fiscal year 2022.’’.
(5) TREATMENT OF FINAL SUNSCREEN
ORDER.—The Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act is amended by striking section
586E of such Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–5).
(c) TREATMENT OF AUTHORITY REGARDING
FINALIZATION OF SUNSCREEN MONOGRAPH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) REVISION OF FINAL SUNSCREEN ORDER.—
Not later than November 26, 2019, the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services (re-
ferred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’) shall amend and revise the final ad-
ministrative order concerning nonprescrip-
tion sunscreen (referred to in this subsection
as the ‘‘sunscreen order’’) for which the con-
tent, prior to the date of enactment of this
Act, was represented by the final monograph
for sunscreen drug products set forth in part
352 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations
(as in effect on May 21, 1999).
(B) ISSUANCE OF REVISED SUNSCREEN ORDER;
EFFECTIVE DATE.—A revised sunscreen order
described in subparagraph (A) shall be—
(i) issued in accordance with the proce-
dures described in section 505G(c)(2) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(ii) issued in proposed form not later than
May 28, 2019;
(iii) effective not later than November 26,
2020; and
(iv) issued by the Secretary at least 1 year
prior to the effective date of the revised
order.
(2) REPORTS.—If a revised sunscreen order
issued under paragraph (1) does not include
provisions related to the effectiveness of var-
ious sun protection factor levels, and does
not address all dosage forms known to the
Secretary to be used in sunscreens marketed
in the United States without a new drug ap-
plication approved under section 505 of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 355), the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions of the Senate on the rationale
for omission of such provisions from such
order, and a plan and timeline to compile
any information necessary to address such
provisions through such order.
(d) TREATMENT OF NON-SUNSCREEN TIME
AND EXTENT APPLICATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Any application described
in section 586F of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–6) that was
submitted to the Secretary pursuant to sec-
tion 330.14 of title 21, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, as such provisions were in effect im-
mediately prior to the date of enactment
date of this Act, shall be extinguished as of
such date of enactment, subject to paragraph
(2).
(2) ORDER REQUEST.—Nothing in paragraph
(1) precludes the submission of an order re-
quest under section 505G(b) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by
section 1001 of this Act, with respect to a
drug that was the subject of an application
extinguished under paragraph (1).
SEC. 1005. ANNUAL UPDATE TO CONGRESS ON
APPROPRIATE PEDIATRIC INDICA-
TION FOR CERTAIN OTC COUGH AND
COLD DRUGS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (c),
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall, beginning not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, annually
submit to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a letter
describing the progress of the Food and Drug
Administration—
(1) in evaluating the cough and cold mono-
graph described in subsection (b) with re-
spect to children under age 6; and
(2) as appropriate, revising such cough and
cold monograph to address such children
through the order process under section
505G(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act, as added by section 1001 of this
Act.
(b) COUGH AND COLD MONOGRAPH DE-
SCRIBED.—The cough and cold monograph de-
scribed in this subsection consists of the con-
ditions under which nonprescription drugs
containing antitussive, expectorant, nasal
decongestant, or antihistamine active ingre-
dients (or combinations thereof) are gen-
erally recognized as safe and effective, as
specified in part 341 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (as in effect immediately
prior to the date of enactment of this Act),
and included in an order deemed to be estab-
lished under section 505G(b) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by
section 1001 of this Act.
(c) DURATION OF AUTHORITY.—The require-
ment under subsection (a) shall terminate as
of the date of a letter submitted by the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services pursu-
ant to such subsection in which the Sec-
retary indicates that the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration has completed its evaluation
and revised, in a final order, as applicable,
the cough and cold monograph as described
in subsection (a)(2).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H260 January 8, 2019
SEC. 1006. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
(a) IMPORTS AND EXPORTS.—Section
801(e)(4)(E)(iii) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 381(e)(4)(E)(iii))
is amended by striking ‘‘subparagraph’’ each
place such term appears and inserting ‘‘para-
graph’’.
(b) FDA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2017.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 905(b)(4) of the
FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 (Public
Law115–52) is amended by striking ‘‘Section
744H(e)(2)(B)’’ and inserting ‘‘Section
744H(f)(2)(B)’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by paragraph (1) shall take effect as of
the enactment of the FDA Reauthorization
Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–52).
TITLE II—USER FEES
SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE; FINDING.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This title may be cited
as the ‘‘Over-the-Counter Monograph User
Fee Act of 2019’’.
(b) FINDING.—The Congress finds that the
fees authorized by the amendments made in
this title will be dedicated to OTC mono-
graph drug activities, as set forth in the
goals identified for purposes of part 10 of sub-
chapter C of chapter VII of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, in the letters from
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
to the Chairman of the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate and the Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives, as set forth in the
Congressional Record.
SEC. 2002. FEES RELATING TO OVER-THE-
COUNTER DRUGS.
Subchapter C of chapter VII of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 379f
et seq.) is amended by inserting after part 9
the following:
‘‘PART 10—FEES RELATING TO OVER-THE-
COUNTER DRUGS
‘‘SEC. 744L. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this part:
‘‘(1) The term ‘affiliate’ means a business
entity that has a relationship with a second
business entity if, directly or indirectly—
‘‘(A) one business entity controls, or has
the power to control, the other business enti-
ty; or
‘‘(B) a third party controls, or has power to
control, both of the business entities.
‘‘(2) The term ‘contract manufacturing or-
ganization facility’ means an OTC mono-
graph drug facility where neither the owner
of such manufacturing facility nor any affil-
iate of such owner or facility sells the OTC
monograph drug produced at such facility di-
rectly to wholesalers, retailers, or consumers
in the United States.
‘‘(3) The term ‘costs of resources allocated
for OTC monograph drug activities’ means
the expenses in connection with OTC mono-
graph drug activities for—
‘‘(A) officers and employees of the Food
and Drug Administration, contractors of the
Food and Drug Administration, advisory
committees, and costs related to such offi-
cers, employees, and committees and costs
related to contracts with such contractors;
‘‘(B) management of information, and the
acquisition, maintenance, and repair of com-
puter resources;
‘‘(C) leasing, maintenance, renovation, and
repair of facilities and acquisition, mainte-
nance, and repair of fixtures, furniture, sci-
entific equipment, and other necessary ma-
terials and supplies; and
‘‘(D) collecting fees under section 744M and
accounting for resources allocated for OTC
monograph drug activities.
‘‘(4) The term ‘FDA establishment identi-
fier’ is the unique number automatically
generated by Food and Drug Administra-
tion’s Field Accomplishments and Compli-
ance Tracking System (FACTS) (or any suc-
cessor system).
‘‘(5) The term ‘OTC monograph drug’
means a nonprescription drug without an ap-
proved new drug application which is gov-
erned by the provisions of section 505G.
‘‘(6) The term ‘OTC monograph drug activi-
ties’ means activities of the Secretary asso-
ciated with OTC monograph drugs and in-
spection of facilities associated with such
products, including the following activities:
‘‘(A) The activities necessary for review
and evaluation of OTC monographs and OTC
monograph order requests, including—
‘‘(i) orders proposing or finalizing applica-
ble conditions of use for OTC monograph
drugs;
‘‘(ii) orders affecting status regarding gen-
eral recognition of safety and effectiveness
of an OTC monograph ingredient or combina-
tion of ingredients under specified conditions
of use;
‘‘(iii) all OTC monograph drug develop-
ment and review activities, including intra-
agency collaboration;
‘‘(iv) regulation and policy development
activities related to OTC monograph drugs;
‘‘(v) development of product standards for
products subject to review and evaluation;
‘‘(vi) meetings referred to in section
505G(i);
‘‘(vii) review of labeling prior to issuance
of orders related to OTC monograph drugs or
conditions of use; and
‘‘(viii) regulatory science activities related
to OTC monograph drugs.
‘‘(B) Inspections related to OTC monograph
drugs.
‘‘(C) Monitoring of clinical and other re-
search conducted in connection with OTC
monograph drugs.
‘‘(D) Safety activities with respect to OTC
monograph drugs, including—
‘‘(i) collecting, developing, and reviewing
safety information on OTC monograph drugs,
including adverse event reports;
‘‘(ii) developing and using improved ad-
verse event data-collection systems, includ-
ing information technology systems; and
‘‘(iii) developing and using improved ana-
lytical tools to assess potential safety risks,
including access to external databases.
‘‘(E) Other activities necessary for imple-
mentation of section 505G.
‘‘(7) The term ‘OTC monograph order re-
quest’ means a request for an order sub-
mitted under section 505G(b)(5).
‘‘(8) The term ‘Tier 1 OTC monograph order
request’ means any OTC monograph order re-
quest not determined to be a Tier 2 OTC
monograph order request.
‘‘(9)(A) The term ‘Tier 2 OTC monograph
order request’ means, subject to subpara-
graph (B), an OTC monograph order request
for—
‘‘(i) the reordering of existing information
in the drug facts label of an OTC monograph
drug;
‘‘(ii) the addition of information to the
other information section of the drug facts
label of an OTC monograph drug, as limited
by section 201.66(c)(7) of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (or any successor regula-
tions);
‘‘(iii) modification to the directions for use
section of the drug facts label of an OTC
monograph drug, if such changes conform to
changes made pursuant to section
505G(c)(3)(A);
‘‘(iv) the standardization of the concentra-
tion or dose of a specific finalized ingredient
within a particular finalized monograph;
‘‘(v) a change to ingredient nomenclature
to align with nomenclature of a standards-
setting organization; or
‘‘(vi) addition of an interchangeable term
in accordance with section 330.1 of title 21,
Code of Federal Regulations (or any suc-
cessor regulations).
‘‘(B) The Secretary may, based on program
implementation experience or other factors
found appropriate by the Secretary, charac-
terize any OTC monograph order request as a
Tier 2 OTC monograph order request (includ-
ing recharacterizing a request from Tier 1 to
Tier 2) and publish such determination in a
proposed order issued pursuant to section
505G.
‘‘(10)(A) The term ‘OTC monograph drug fa-
cility’ means a foreign or domestic business
or other entity that—
‘‘(i) is—
‘‘(I) under one management, either direct
or indirect; and
‘‘(II) at one geographic location or address
engaged in manufacturing or processing the
finished dosage form of an OTC monograph
drug;
‘‘(ii) includes a finished dosage form manu-
facturer facility in a contractual relation-
ship with the sponsor of one or more OTC
monograph drugs to manufacture or process
such drugs; and
‘‘(iii) does not include a business or other
entity whose only manufacturing or proc-
essing activities are one or more of the fol-
lowing: production of clinical research sup-
plies, testing, or placement of outer pack-
aging on packages containing multiple prod-
ucts, for such purposes as creating
multipacks, when each monograph drug
product contained within the overpackaging
is already in a final packaged form prior to
placement in the outer overpackaging.
‘‘(B) For purposes of subparagraph
(A)(i)(II), separate buildings or locations
within close proximity are considered to be
at one geographic location or address if the
activities conducted in such buildings or lo-
cations are—
‘‘(i) closely related to the same business
enterprise;
‘‘(ii) under the supervision of the same
local management; and
‘‘(iii) under a single FDA establishment
identifier and capable of being inspected by
the Food and Drug Administration during a
single inspection.
‘‘(C) If a business or other entity would
meet criteria specified in subparagraph (A),
but for being under multiple management,
the business or other entity is deemed to
constitute multiple facilities, one per man-
agement entity, for purposes of this para-
graph.
‘‘(11) The term ‘OTC monograph drug meet-
ing’ means any meeting regarding the con-
tent of a proposed OTC monograph order re-
quest.
‘‘(12) The term ‘person’ includes an affil-
iate of a person.
‘‘(13) The terms ‘requestor’ and ‘sponsor’
have the meanings given such terms in sec-
tion 505G.
‘‘SEC. 744M. AUTHORITY TO ASSESS AND USE OTC
MONOGRAPH FEES.
‘‘(a) TYPES OF FEES.—Beginning with fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall assess and col-
lect fees in accordance with this section as
follows:
‘‘(1) FACILITY FEE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each person that owns a
facility identified as an OTC monograph drug
facility on December 31 of the fiscal year or
at any time during the preceding 12-month
period shall be assessed an annual fee for
each such facility as determined under sub-
section (c).
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(i) A fee shall not be assessed under sub-
paragraph (A) if the identified OTC mono-
graph drug facility—
‘‘(I) has ceased all activities related to
OTC monograph drugs prior to January 31,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H261
January 8, 2019
2019, for the first program year, and Decem-
ber 31 of the fiscal year for subsequent fiscal
years; and
‘‘(II) has updated its registration to reflect
such change under the requirements for drug
establishment registration set forth in sec-
tion 510.
‘‘(ii) The amount of the fee for a contract
manufacturing organization facility shall be
equal to two-thirds of the amount of the fee
for an OTC monograph drug facility that is
not a contract manufacturing organization
facility.
‘‘(C) AMOUNT.—The amount of fees estab-
lished under subparagraph (A) shall be estab-
lished under subsection (c).
‘‘(D) DUE DATE.—
‘‘(i) FOR FIRST PROGRAM YEAR.—For fiscal
year 2019, the facility fees required under
subparagraph (A) shall be due 45 calendar
days after publication of the Federal Reg-
ister notice provided for under subsection
(c)(4)(A).
‘‘(ii) SUBSEQUENT FISCAL YEARS.—For each
fiscal year after fiscal year 2019, the facility
fees required under subparagraph (A) shall be
due on the later of—
‘‘(I) the first business day of June of such
year; or
‘‘(II) the first business day after the enact-
ment of an appropriations Act providing for
the collection and obligation of fees under
this section for such year.
‘‘(2) OTC MONOGRAPH ORDER REQUEST FEE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each person that sub-
mits an OTC monograph order request shall
be subject to a fee for an OTC monograph
order request. The amount of such fee shall
be—
‘‘(i) for a Tier 1 OTC monograph order re-
quest, $500,000, adjusted for inflation for the
fiscal year (as determined under subsection
(c)(1)(B)); and
‘‘(ii) for a Tier 2 OTC monograph order re-
quest, $100,000 adjusted for inflation for the
fiscal year (as determined under subsection
(c)(1)(B)).
‘‘(B) DUE DATE.—The OTC monograph order
request fees required under subparagraph (A)
shall be due on the date of submission of the
OTC monograph order request.
‘‘(C) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN SAFETY
CHANGES.—A person who is named as the re-
questor in an OTC monograph order shall not
be subject to a fee under subparagraph (A) if
the Secretary finds that the OTC monograph
order request seeks to change the drug facts
labeling of an OTC monograph drug in a way
that would add to or strengthen—
‘‘(i) a contraindication, warning, or pre-
caution;
‘‘(ii) a statement about risk associated
with misuse or abuse; or
‘‘(iii) an instruction about dosage and ad-
ministration that is intended to increase the
safe use of the OTC monograph drug.
‘‘(D) REFUND OF FEE IF ORDER REQUEST IS
RECATEGORIZED AS A TIER 2 OTC MONOGRAPH
ORDER REQUEST.—If the Secretary determines
that an OTC monograph request initially
characterized as Tier 1 shall be re-character-
ized as a Tier 2 OTC monograph order re-
quest, and the requestor has paid a Tier 1 fee
in accordance with subparagraph (A)(i), the
Secretary shall refund the requestor the dif-
ference between the Tier 1 and Tier 2 fees de-
termined under subparagraphs (A)(i) and
(A)(ii), respectively.
‘‘(E) REFUND OF FEE IF ORDER REQUEST RE-
FUSED FOR FILING OR WITHDRAWN BEFORE FIL-
ING.—The Secretary shall refund 75 percent
of the fee paid under subparagraph (B) for
any order request which is refused for filing
or was withdrawn before being accepted or
refused for filing.
‘‘(F) FEES FOR ORDER REQUESTS PREVIOUSLY
REFUSED FOR FILING OR WITHDRAWN BEFORE
FILING.—An OTC monograph order request
that was submitted but was refused for fil-
ing, or was withdrawn before being accepted
or refused for filing, shall be subject to the
full fee under subparagraph (A) upon being
resubmitted or filed over protest.
‘‘(G) REFUND OF FEE IF ORDER REQUEST
WITHDRAWN.—If an order request is with-
drawn after the order request was filed, the
Secretary may refund the fee or a portion of
the fee if no substantial work was performed
on the order request after the application
was filed. The Secretary shall have the sole
discretion to refund a fee or a portion of the
fee under this subparagraph. A determina-
tion by the Secretary concerning a refund
under this subparagraph shall not be review-
able.
‘‘(3) REFUNDS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Other than refunds pro-
vided pursuant to any of subparagraphs (D)
through (G) of paragraph (2), the Secretary
shall not refund any fee paid under para-
graph (1) except as provided in subparagraph
(B).
‘‘(B) DISPUTES CONCERNING FEES.—To qual-
ify for the return of a fee claimed to have
been paid in error under paragraph (1) or (2),
a person shall submit to the Secretary a
written request justifying such return within
180 calendar days after such fee was paid.
‘‘(4) NOTICE.—Within the timeframe speci-
fied in subsection (c), the Secretary shall
publish in the Federal Register the amount
of the fees under paragraph (1) for such fiscal
year.
‘‘(b) FEE REVENUE AMOUNTS.—
‘‘(1) FISCAL YEAR 2019.—For fiscal year 2019,
fees under subsection (a)(1) shall be estab-
lished to generate a total facility fee revenue
amount equal to the sum of—
‘‘(A) the annual base revenue for fiscal
year 2019 (as determined under paragraph
(3));
‘‘(B) the dollar amount equal to the oper-
ating reserve adjustment for the fiscal year,
if applicable (as determined under subsection
(c)(2)); and
‘‘(C) additional direct cost adjustments (as
determined under subsection (c)(3)).
‘‘(2) SUBSEQUENT FISCAL YEARS.—For each
of the fiscal years 2020 through 2023, fees
under subsection (a)(1) shall be established
to generate a total facility fee revenue
amount equal to the sum of—
‘‘(A) the annual base revenue for the fiscal
year (as determined under paragraph (3));
‘‘(B) the dollar amount equal to the infla-
tion adjustment for the fiscal year (as deter-
mined under subsection (c)(1));
‘‘(C) the dollar amount equal to the oper-
ating reserve adjustment for the fiscal year,
if applicable (as determined under subsection
(c)(2));
‘‘(D) additional direct cost adjustments (as
determined under subsection (c)(3)); and
‘‘(E) additional dollar amounts for each fis-
cal year as follows:
‘‘(i) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2020.
‘‘(ii) $6,000,000 for fiscal year 2021.
‘‘(iii) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.
‘‘(iv) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
‘‘(3) ANNUAL BASE REVENUE.—For purposes
of paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A), the dollar
amount of the annual base revenue for a fis-
cal year shall be—
‘‘(A) for fiscal year 2019, $8,000,000; and
‘‘(B) for fiscal years 2020 through 2023, the
dollar amount of the total revenue amount
established under this subsection for the pre-
vious fiscal year, not including any adjust-
ments made under subsection (c)(2) or (c)(3).
‘‘(c) ADJUSTMENTS; ANNUAL FEE SETTING.—
‘‘(1) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of sub-
section (b)(2)(B), the dollar amount of the in-
flation adjustment to the annual base rev-
enue for fiscal year 2020 and each subsequent
fiscal year shall be equal to the product of—
‘‘(i) such annual base revenue for the fiscal
year under subsection (b)(2); and
‘‘(ii) the inflation adjustment percentage
under subparagraph (C).
‘‘(B) OTC MONOGRAPH ORDER REQUEST
FEES.—For purposes of subsection (a)(2), the
dollar amount of the inflation adjustment to
the fee for OTC monograph order requests for
fiscal year 2020 and each subsequent fiscal
year shall be equal to the product of—
‘‘(i) the applicable fee under subsection
(a)(2) for the preceding fiscal year; and
‘‘(ii) the inflation adjustment percentage
under subparagraph (C).
‘‘(C) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT PERCENTAGE.—
The inflation adjustment percentage under
this subparagraph for a fiscal year is equal
to—
‘‘(i) for each of fiscal years 2020 and 2021,
the average annual percent change that oc-
curred in the Consumer Price Index for
urban consumers (Washington-Baltimore,
DC–MD–VA–WV; Not Seasonally Adjusted;
All items; Annual Index) for the first 3 years
of the preceding 4 years of available data;
and
‘‘(ii) for each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023,
the sum of—
‘‘(I) the average annual percent change in
the cost, per full-time equivalent position of
the Food and Drug Administration, of all
personnel compensation and benefits paid
with respect to such positions for the first 3
years of the preceding 4 fiscal years, multi-
plied by the proportion of personnel com-
pensation and benefits costs to total costs of
OTC monograph drug activities for the first
3 years of the preceding 4 fiscal years; and
‘‘(II) the average annual percent change
that occurred in the Consumer Price Index
for urban consumers (Washington-Baltimore,
DC–MD–VA–WV; Not Seasonally Adjusted;
All items; Annual Index) for the first 3 years
of the preceding 4 years of available data
multiplied by the proportion of all costs
other than personnel compensation and ben-
efits costs to total costs of OTC monograph
drug activities for the first 3 years of the
preceding 4 fiscal years.
‘‘(2) OPERATING RESERVE ADJUSTMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For fiscal year 2019 and
subsequent fiscal years, for purposes of sub-
sections (b)(1)(B) and (b)(2)(C), the Secretary
may, in addition to adjustments under para-
graph (1), further increase the fee revenue
and fees if such an adjustment is necessary
to provide operating reserves of carryover
user fees for OTC monograph drug activities
for not more than the number of weeks spec-
ified in subparagraph (B).
‘‘(B) NUMBER OF WEEKS.—The number of
weeks specified in this subparagraph is—
‘‘(i) 3 weeks for fiscal year 2019;
‘‘(ii) 7 weeks for fiscal year 2020;
‘‘(iii) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2021;
‘‘(iv) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2022; and
‘‘(v) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2023.
‘‘(C) DECREASE.—If the Secretary has car-
ryover balances for such process in excess of
10 weeks of the operating reserves referred to
in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall de-
crease the fee revenue and fees referred to in
such subparagraph to provide for not more
than 10 weeks of such operating reserves.
‘‘(D) RATIONALE FOR ADJUSTMENT.—If an
adjustment under this paragraph is made,
the rationale for the amount of the increase
or decrease (as applicable) in fee revenue and
fees shall be contained in the annual Federal
Register notice under paragraph (4) estab-
lishing fee revenue and fees for the fiscal
year involved.
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL DIRECT COST ADJUST-
MENT.—The Secretary shall, in addition to
adjustments under paragraphs (1) and (2),
further increase the fee revenue and fees for
purposes of subsection (b)(2)(D) by an
amount equal to—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H262 January 8, 2019
‘‘(A) $14,000,000 for fiscal year 2019;
‘‘(B) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2020;
‘‘(C) $4,000,000 for fiscal year 2021;
‘‘(D) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2022; and
‘‘(E) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
‘‘(4) ANNUAL FEE SETTING.—
‘‘(A) FISCAL YEAR 2019.—The Secretary
shall, not later than the second Monday in
March of 2019—
‘‘(i) establish OTC monograph drug facility
fees for fiscal year 2019 under subsection (a),
based on the revenue amount for such year
under subsection (b) and the adjustments
provided under this subsection; and
‘‘(ii) publish fee revenue, facility fees, and
OTC monograph order requests in the Fed-
eral Register.
‘‘(B) SUBSEQUENT FISCAL YEARS.—The Sec-
retary shall, not later than the second Mon-
day in March of each fiscal year that begins
after September 30, 2019—
‘‘(i) establish for each such fiscal year,
based on the revenue amounts under sub-
section (b) and the adjustments provided
under this subsection—
‘‘(I) OTC monograph drug facility fees
under subsection (a)(1); and
‘‘(II) OTC monograph order request fees
under subsection (a)(2); and
‘‘(ii) publish such fee revenue amounts, fa-
cility fees, and OTC monograph order re-
quest fees in the Federal Register.
‘‘(d) IDENTIFICATION OF FACILITIES.—Each
person that owns an OTC monograph drug fa-
cility shall submit to the Secretary the in-
formation required under this subsection
each year. Such information shall, for each
fiscal year—
‘‘(1) be submitted as part of the require-
ments for drug establishment registration
set forth in section 510; and
‘‘(2) include for each such facility, at a
minimum, identification of the facility’s
business operation as that of an OTC mono-
graph drug facility.
‘‘(e) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO PAY FEES.—
‘‘(1) OTC MONOGRAPH DRUG FACILITY FEE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Failure to pay the fee
under subsection (a)(1) within 20 calendar
days of the due date as specified in subpara-
graph (D) of such subsection shall result in
the following:
‘‘(i) The Secretary shall place the facility
on a publicly available arrears list.
‘‘(ii) All OTC monograph drugs manufac-
tured in such a facility or containing an in-
gredient manufactured in such a facility
shall be deemed misbranded under section
502(ff).
‘‘(B) APPLICATION OF PENALTIES.—The pen-
alties under this paragraph shall apply until
the fee established by subsection (a)(1) is
paid.
‘‘(2) ORDER REQUESTS.—An OTC monograph
order request submitted by a person subject
to fees under subsection (a) shall be consid-
ered incomplete and shall not be accepted for
filing by the Secretary until all fees owed by
such person under this section have been
paid.
‘‘(3) MEETINGS.—A person subject to fees
under this section shall be considered ineli-
gible for OTC monograph drug meetings
until all such fees owed by such person have
been paid.
‘‘(f) CREDITING AND AVAILABILITY OF
FEES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Fees authorized under
subsection (a) shall be collected and avail-
able for obligation only to the extent and in
the amount provided in advance in appro-
priations Acts. Such fees are authorized to
remain available until expended. Such sums
as may be necessary may be transferred from
the Food and Drug Administration salaries
and expenses appropriation account without
fiscal year limitation to such appropriation
account for salaries and expenses with such
fiscal year limitation. The sums transferred
shall be available solely for OTC monograph
drug activities.
‘‘(2) COLLECTIONS AND APPROPRIATION
ACTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(C), the fees authorized by this section shall
be collected and available in each fiscal year
in an amount not to exceed the amount spec-
ified in appropriation Acts, or otherwise
made available for obligation, for such fiscal
year.
‘‘(B) USE OF FEES AND LIMITATION.—The
fees authorized by this section shall be avail-
able to defray increases in the costs of the
resources allocated for OTC monograph drug
activities (including increases in such costs
for an additional number of full-time equiva-
lent positions in the Department of Health
and Human Services to be engaged in such
activities), only if the Secretary allocates
for such purpose an amount for such fiscal
year (excluding amounts from fees collected
under this section) no less than $12,000,000,
multiplied by the adjustment factor applica-
ble to the fiscal year involved under sub-
section (c)(1).
‘‘(C) COMPLIANCE.—The Secretary shall be
considered to have met the requirements of
subparagraph (B) in any fiscal year if the
costs funded by appropriations and allocated
for OTC monograph drug activities are not
more than 15 percent below the level speci-
fied in such subparagraph.
‘‘(D) PROVISION FOR EARLY PAYMENTS IN
SUBSEQUENT YEARS.—Payment of fees author-
ized under this section for a fiscal year (after
fiscal year 2019), prior to the due date for
such fees, may be accepted by the Secretary
in accordance with authority provided in ad-
vance in a prior year appropriations Act.
‘‘(3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For each of the fiscal years 2019 through 2023,
there is authorized to be appropriated for
fees under this section an amount equal to
the total amount of fees assessed for such
fiscal year under this section.
‘‘(g) COLLECTION OF UNPAID FEES.—In any
case where the Secretary does not receive
payment of a fee assessed under subsection
(a) within 30 calendar days after it is due,
such fee shall be treated as a claim of the
United States Government subject to sub-
chapter II of chapter 37 of title 31, United
States Code.
‘‘(h) CONSTRUCTION.—This section may not
be construed to require that the number of
full-time equivalent positions in the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, for offi-
cers, employers, and advisory committees
not engaged in OTC monograph drug activi-
ties, be reduced to offset the number of offi-
cers, employees, and advisory committees so
engaged.
‘‘SEC. 744N. REAUTHORIZATION; REPORTING RE-
QUIREMENTS.
‘‘(a) PERFORMANCE REPORT.—Beginning
with fiscal year 2019, and not later than 120
calendar days after the end of each fiscal
year thereafter for which fees are collected
under this part, the Secretary shall prepare
and submit to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report
concerning the progress of the Food and
Drug Administration in achieving the goals
identified in the letters described in section
2001(b) of the Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act of 2019
during such fiscal year and the future plans
of the Food and Drug Administration for
meeting such goals.
‘‘(b) FISCAL REPORT.—Not later than 120
calendar days after the end of fiscal year 2019
and each subsequent fiscal year for which
fees are collected under this part, the Sec-
retary shall prepare and submit to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate a report on the implementation
of the authority for such fees during such fis-
cal year and the use, by the Food and Drug
Administration, of the fees collected for such
fiscal year.
‘‘(c) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary
shall make the reports required under sub-
sections (a) and (b) available to the public on
the internet website of the Food and Drug
Administration.
‘‘(d) REAUTHORIZATION.—
‘‘(1) CONSULTATION.—In developing rec-
ommendations to present to the Congress
with respect to the goals described in sub-
section (a), and plans for meeting the goals,
for OTC monograph drug activities for the
first 5 fiscal years after fiscal year 2023, and
for the reauthorization of this part for such
fiscal years, the Secretary shall consult
with—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
‘‘(B) the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;
‘‘(C) scientific and academic experts;
‘‘(D) health care professionals;
‘‘(E) representatives of patient and con-
sumer advocacy groups; and
‘‘(F) the regulated industry.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC REVIEW OF RECOMMENDATIONS.—
After negotiations with the regulated indus-
try, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) present the recommendations devel-
oped under paragraph (1) to the congres-
sional committees specified in such para-
graph;
‘‘(B) publish such recommendations in the
Federal Register;
‘‘(C) provide for a period of 30 calendar
days for the public to provide written com-
ments on such recommendations;
‘‘(D) hold a meeting at which the public
may present its views on such recommenda-
tions; and
‘‘(E) after consideration of such public
views and comments, revise such rec-
ommendations as necessary.
‘‘(3) TRANSMITTAL OF RECOMMENDATIONS.—
Not later than January 15, 2023, the Sec-
retary shall transmit to the Congress the re-
vised recommendations under paragraph (2),
a summary of the views and comments re-
ceived under such paragraph, and any
changes made to the recommendations in re-
sponse to such views and comments.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. PALLONE) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous materials on H.R. 269.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
b 1615
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise to voice my support for the
Pandemic and All-Hazards Prepared-
ness and Advancing Innovation Act of
2019. This legislation will help
strengthen our Nation’s emergency
preparedness and response efforts. It
will also modernize the regulatory
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:44 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.006 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H263
January 8, 2019
framework for over-the-counter drugs
and provide FDA with stable and con-
sistent funding to oversee the over-the-
counter market.
This bill would ensure our Nation is
prepared and can respond to emerging
infectious disease threats, including
Zika and Ebola. It will also prepare us
so we can better respond to health se-
curity events, like bioterrorism and
natural disasters such as hurricanes
and wildfires.
The importance of this law cannot be
overstated, Mr. Speaker. That is why
our committee committed to working
together in the last Congress on a bi-
partisan basis to ensure that the im-
portant authorities granted to the FDA
in this law did not lapse.
I want to especially thank Represent-
atives ESHOO and BROOKS for their
work on this legislation and their lead-
ership in promoting the importance of
strengthening our Nation’s emergency
preparedness and response infrastruc-
ture.
While the House passed legislation
that would have prevented this author-
ization from expiring, the Senate then
refused to act and, instead, allowed
these important authorities to expire
on September 30.
While we were disappointed that we
were unable to reauthorize PAHPA be-
fore that occurred, we continued to
work with our Senate colleagues on
moving this important legislation for-
ward before the end of the 115th Con-
gress. That effort led to the passage of
H.R. 7328 on December 20, legislation
developed as a result of bipartisan, bi-
cameral negotiations to reach agree-
ment on a PAHPA reauthorization bill
that we could all support.
Unfortunately, just like before, the
Senate did not act; and, thus, we are on
the floor again today, Mr. Speaker,
moving legislation to reauthorize the
Pandemic All-Hazards Preparedness
Act and pass historic legislation to
streamline and fund the regulation of
over-the-counter drugs. I hope that the
third time will be the charm and that
our Senate colleagues will act quickly
to pass this legislation.
In addition to reauthorizing our pub-
lic health preparedness and response
programs, this legislation also contains
a bipartisan and bicameral agreement
reforming our over-the-counter drug
program.
The Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act of
2018 has also twice previously passed
the House with overwhelming bipar-
tisan support. It modernizes the way
the FDA reviews over-the-counter
products for colds, allergies, and other
common health issues.
The bill streamlines the review proc-
ess for future monograph changes, al-
lows for expedited safety label changes,
and establishes a user fee program to
provide reasonable or sustainable re-
sources to implement these reforms.
These are all critical changes that I
am very proud to support.
While this is not a perfect bill and
still contains unnecessary and unwar-
ranted exclusivity for over-the-counter
drugs and sunscreens, reform of our
over-the-counter drug program is long
overdue. This reform will pave the way
for innovation in the over-the-counter
market, allow the agency to respond to
safety events, and finally provide the
agency with the resources needed to
properly oversee this growing market.
This legislation has the broad sup-
port of industry, public health groups,
and the FDA, and it deserves the sup-
port of both the House and the Senate.
I want to thank the bill’s authors,
Representatives ESHOO, BROOKS,
DEGETTE, LATTA, DINGELL, GUTHRIE,
and BURGESS, for their hard work on
this legislation.
It is my hope that the Senate will
now take swift action and move this
legislation to the President’s desk. I
urge my colleagues to vote in support
of this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
We often hear it said that life is a
multiple of threes, and here we are, the
third time, passing this important leg-
islation.
One hundred years ago, this country
was in the midst of the worst pandemic
in its history, claiming the lives of al-
most 700,000 Americans and killing
more than 50 million people worldwide.
As we discuss the Pandemic and All-
Hazards Preparedness and Advancing
Innovation Act of 2019, it is paramount
that we remember the significance of
the centennial anniversary of the 1918
influenza pandemic.
I must also note, again, the third
time the House has passed this legisla-
tion. We have clearly done our work,
and it is time for the other body to do
their work and send this bill to the
President’s desk.
The creation of the Assistant Sec-
retary for Preparedness and Response
under the original legislation in 2006
has helped us to make monumental
strides in preparedness, coordination,
and response.
Close collaboration and efforts be-
tween the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, and our State, local,
Tribal, and territorial public health
partners have been vital in making this
progress.
Like politics, much of public health
is local and executed on the ground by
our hospitals, by our health depart-
ments and our emergency responders,
who are our front lines in addressing
infectious diseases, disasters, and
threats.
We hear each and every year of the
dangers of the influenza as flu season
wreaks havoc on communities across
the country. Last year, in north Texas,
some schools had to close in order to
contain the spread of the flu. This bill
includes an important provision dedi-
cated to preparing for pandemic influ-
enza to protect our Nation against the
terror of a pandemic.
Mr. Speaker, I would just parentheti-
cally add that if anyone has not yet
had their influenza immunization this
year, it is still a good idea to avail
yourself of that protective measure.
The flu vaccine not only can prevent
the flu, but if someone gets the flu
after having had the flu vaccine, their
clinical course is likely to be more be-
nign.
This reauthorization includes an im-
portant provision, the MISSION ZERO
Act. The MISSION ZERO Act seeks to
connect American patients with battle-
tested trauma care through the craft of
military trauma care providers.
The bill provides grants to integrate
military trauma care providers and
teams into the Nation’s leading trauma
centers and systems. This will also en-
sure that our military can maintain
battlefield-ready trauma care providers
in between periods of active engage-
ment. The need for top-notch trauma
care extends across our Nation, far re-
moved from the battlefield.
We must also remember that infec-
tious diseases are a much more serious
threat in the global community, and
we must continue to ensure that we are
prepared and ready to respond. Front-
line facilities and responders in Dallas,
Texas, experienced this firsthand in
2014 when a patient presented with
Ebola in a DFW emergency depart-
ment.
Today, currently, right now, there is
an Ebola outbreak in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo that has been
deemed the second worst on record,
with more than 600 cases. This legisla-
tion equips our Nation with the tools
to respond in a timely and effective
manner when the public health and
safety are at risk, such as if Ebola were
to hit the United States again.
Additionally, this bill will also help
to bring domestic biologic surveillance
systems up to date so that they are op-
erating with the most efficient capa-
bilities and technologies.
We must also look for innovative
ways to continue to advance medical
countermeasures, ensuring that Ameri-
cans can access medications that will
provide critical protection in the fu-
ture.
Another portion of this legislation
would modernize the regulation of
over-the-counter medicines. To date,
consumers have access to more than
300,000 nonprescription items, from
cough to cold medicines to anti-
perspirants, antacids, and sunscreens.
Pharmacy aisles and medicine cabinets
are filled with over-the-counter prod-
ucts, and American consumers rely on
these each and every day.
This bill would make the over-the-
counter regulatory framework more
science-based and responsive to public
health concerns, and it would encour-
age the development of more innova-
tive products and provide resources to
the Food and Drug Administration to
bolster the agency’s ability to review
over-the-counter applications and to
regulate this sector in a consistent
manner.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.015 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H264 January 8, 2019
This Pandemic and All-Hazards Pre-
paredness reauthorization is critical to
protecting the lives of all Americans
and providing the necessary tools and
infrastructure are in place when dis-
aster strikes.
I want to thank Representatives
SUSAN BROOKS and ANNA ESHOO for
their work and Representatives BOB
LATTA and DIANA DEGETTE for their
work on the over-the-counter mono-
graph reform.
I strongly support this legislation,
urge Members to do the same, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. DINGELL).
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for yielding me the time.
I rise in strong support of H.R. 269.
This important bill reauthorizes the
Pandemic and All-Hazards Prepared-
ness Act and provides FDA with needed
revenue and authority to improve over-
sight of over-the-counter drugs.
The House of Representatives over-
whelmingly passed this bipartisan leg-
islation at the end of the 115th Con-
gress, and I am pleased that we are act-
ing on this bill once again at the begin-
ning of the 116th Congress. I am proud
to have helped introduce this legisla-
tion, and I urge my Senate colleagues
to quickly pass this bill into law.
My chairman, Mr. PALLONE and Rep-
resentative BURGESS have talked and
spoken well of why we must address
the Pandemic and All-Hazards Pre-
paredness Act. Headlines in the Detroit
paper today talking about a death in
an area hospital because of a power
outage is why we must prepare these
institutions to be ready for crises, but
I want to speak about the over-the-
counter part of this bill.
Today, 60 percent of all medicines
sold in the United States are over the
counter. Americans trust that they are
safe, yet the FDA has only 18 full-time
employees—only 18—to oversee the en-
tire market of drugs sold across this
country.
This outdated system has the poten-
tial to put patients at risk and does
not match the realities of our modern
healthcare system.
The bill we are discussing today re-
forms this system for the better. It cre-
ates a new user fee program to give
FDA the resources it needs to improve
public health. It also improves the effi-
ciency by allowing the agency to up-
date OTC monographs through admin-
istrative order rather than the rule-
making process.
These changes are a big win for pa-
tients, who will benefit from improved
product safety, and for industry, as
they will have a reliable pathway to
bring new, innovative products to mar-
ket. It has been years since a new sun-
screen product has been brought to
market simply because of this outdated
system.
I want to thank my colleagues on the
Energy and Commerce Committee for
all the time and effort they put into
this legislation; to Representatives
ESHOO and BROOKS, who worked so hard
on the Pandemic and All-Hazards Pre-
paredness Act; and to my colleague,
Representative DEGETTE, and my Re-
publican colleagues, Representatives
LATTA, GUTHRIE, and BURGESS, for all
the work that they did.
We need to get this important bill
passed and into law. I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 269.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. LATTA).
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 269, the
PAHPA OTC legislation, which in-
cludes a bill I authored last Congress,
the Over-the-Counter Monograph Safe-
ty, Innovation, and Reform Act.
More than 240 million Americans use
over-the-counter medications for relief
of common ailments, such as head-
aches, colds, and seasonal allergies. We
trust and depend on these affordable
remedies to get us well and stay well.
Despite the success and high utiliza-
tion of these medicines, the Food and
Drug Administration’s regulatory
structure for oversight of OTC prod-
ucts, referred to as the monograph sys-
tem, is outdated and incomplete. The
system was created more than 45 years
ago, yet movement on unfinished items
has ground to a halt due to cum-
bersome notice and comment rule-
making processes.
Without process modernization, it is
nearly impossible for manufacturers to
address safety concerns and offers lit-
tle incentive to develop new products.
This bill would provide meaningful and
long overdue reform to the FDA’s
monograph system. The reform will
create a more flexible framework that
accounts for advances in science, al-
lows timely updates to safety label
changes, and creates a workable proc-
ess for completing unfinished mono-
graphs.
This bill would also create a pathway
to market for new and innovative prod-
ucts, which would help to reduce strain
on our healthcare system by giving
consumers more options to treat com-
mon ailments at home. Furthermore,
this legislation will improve regu-
latory certainty for manufacturers.
Over time, we would see increase in-
vestment in research and development,
leading to new OTC medicines on our
shelves, and providing greater self-care
options to consumers.
Again, I thank my colleagues—Ms.
DEGETTE, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mrs. DINGELL,
Dr. BURGESS, and former Member Mr.
Gene Green from Texas—the FDA, and
stakeholders for working so closely
with me over the last 3 years to ensure
that this modernization effort appro-
priately addresses and resolves this
complex issue.
b 1630
I believe modernization of the broken
monograph system will strengthen con-
sumer protections, spur innovation,
and expand consumer choice. It is long
overdue to fix this regulatory frame-
work that oversees 60 percent of the
medicines sold in the United States.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my col-
leagues to support passage of our bipar-
tisan bill, H.R. 269, PAHPA OTC.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I have
no additional speakers, and I reserve
the balance my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentlewoman from Indi-
ana (Mrs. BROOKS), the principal au-
thor of the bill.
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today in support of H.R. 269,
the Pandemic and All-Hazards Pre-
paredness and Advancing Innovation
Act, or PAHPA.
I am proud to have introduced this
important bill with my very good
friend, Representative ANNA ESHOO,
who is one of the original authors of
the 2006 PAHPA bill and the lead au-
thor of the last reauthorization in 2013.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Energy
and Commerce Committee Chair Rep-
resentative PALLONE and Ranking
Member Representative WALDEN, as
well as Representative BURGESS for his
work on the Health Subcommittee, and
the committee staff for working to get
this bill back on the House floor so
quickly as we begin the 116th Congress.
PAHPA is a bipartisan public health
national security effort which works to
ensure our Nation is better prepared to
respond, whether it is to natural disas-
ters like hurricanes, emerging infec-
tious diseases like Zika or Ebola, or
chemical, biological, radiological, or
nuclear attacks, whether they might
come from a terrorist group or from a
nation-state.
The reality is that these threats we
face are not just hypothetical. The on-
going Ebola outbreak is now, as you
have already heard, the second largest
outbreak in history. Since August of
2018, 374 people in the Democratic Re-
public of the Congo have died from
Ebola, bringing the total to 623 cases.
Nine new cases have been confirmed in
just the last week alone.
Thanks to PAHPA and the 21st Cen-
tury Cures Act, we are more prepared
for biological threats and attacks. Last
year, the FDA approved the first drug
to treat smallpox and also an auto in-
jector which provides a one-time dose
of an antidote to block effects of a
nerve agent.
But PAHPA is much more than what
we think of as just a biodefense bill. It
helps ensure a coordinated healthcare
response, whether it is to hurricanes
and other natural disasters, by
prioritizing our Nation’s most vulner-
able populations: children, senior citi-
zens, and people with disabilities.
PAHPA provides liability protection
for physicians who volunteer after
medical disasters. It ensures more
healthcare professionals, nurses and
doctors and others, can be hired and
trained when facing a public health cri-
sis. It ensures we have a robust supply
of vaccines and equipment like gloves,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:48 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.016 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H265
January 8, 2019
hazmat suits, and masks in our Stra-
tegic National Stockpiles so our med-
ical professionals and our first respond-
ers have what they need.
The bill ensures our preparedness and
response capabilities will include a ro-
bust pipeline of medical counter-
measures by increasing funding for the
BioShield Special Reserve Fund and
BARDA, whose work over the last dec-
ade has resulted in FDA approvals for
more than 42 different medical coun-
termeasures.
While the investments BARDA is
making into innovative research and
treatments are critical, we have to ad-
dress the threats that have been
around for years.
As Mr. BURGESS talked about, the
1918 influenza outbreak killed 675,000
Americans and millions worldwide.
Many experts predict that we are due
for another global pandemic influenza.
The bill today authorizes $250 million
to address threats like pan flu.
This bill is the result of months of
committee work in both the House and
the Senate. I can’t emphasize enough
how critically important it is that we
reauthorize PAHPA.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage the Senate
to quickly pass H.R. 269. I urge all
Members to support this critical piece
of public health and national security
legislation.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I have
no additional speakers and am pre-
pared to close. I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ken-
tucky (Mr. GUTHRIE).
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of the Pandemic and
All-Hazards Preparedness and Advanc-
ing Innovation Act of 2019, which in-
cludes legislation to update the over-
the-counter monograph system.
Our healthcare system is innovating
rapidly, and the Food and Drug Admin-
istration can’t keep up. The FDA’s ap-
proval system for over-the-counter
medications has not been updated since
the 1970s. By updating the monograph
approval system, we make it easier for
over-the-counter medicines to reach
the market, providing an affordable
way for Americans to access healthcare
treatment.
I was proud to work on over-the-
counter monograph reform last Con-
gress with a number of my colleagues
on the Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee, with the efforts being led by
Congressman BOB LATTA, and it was bi-
partisan.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill on the floor today.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I urge
all Members to support the bill before
us today, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, again, I
would ask support for this bipartisan
bill. It is very important legislation,
and I hope that we can send it to the
Senate and have the President quickly
sign it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support
of this bipartisan legislation, the Pandemic and
All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing In-
novation Act. I’ve worked on this legislation
with my partner Representative SUSAN
BROOKS for almost a year and it reflects
months of negotiations and compromise
reached by the House and Senate. This bill
also includes important updates to the Over-
the-Counter Monograph program at the Food
and Drug Administration. I am proud to reintro-
duce this bill in the 116th Congress and
pleased the House is taking it up so quickly.
The Pandemic and All-Hazards Prepared-
ness and Advancing Innovation Act we’re con-
sidering today is critical to our national secu-
rity. The legislation updates the original Pan-
demic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act I au-
thored with then-Representativelichard Burr in
2006, by directing federal agencies to respond
to new and emerging threats, and strengthen
our nation’s existing preparedness and re-
sponse programs. This legislation reauthorizes
critical programs that ensure our nation is pre-
pared to respond to naturally occurring and
manmade disasters. These threats are real
and our country must be prepared to ade-
quately respond to them. This reauthorization
meets the challenges that we face today and
those we anticipate facing in the future. The
policies in this bill are almost identical to those
passed under suspension by the House in
September 2018 with small changes made at
the request of the Senate. The House passed
an identical bill at the end of the 115th Con-
gress by a vote of 367 to 9.
This bill also includes overdue updates to
the Over-the-Counter Monograph program
which will streamline the process by which
over-the-counter products are regulated and
approved by FDA and will improve patient
safety. It establishes a new user fee program
that will enable FDA to act faster to address
safety issues associated with over-the-counter
drugs and bring innovative over-the-counter
drugs to market.
It’s imperative that after the House passes
this legislation today that the Senate take it up
quickly and send it to the President’s desk as
soon as possible. PAHPA expired on Sep-
tember 30th and reauthorizing these programs
is critical to our national security.
I’m proud of this legislation and I urge my
colleagues to support the Pandemic and All-
Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innova-
tion Act.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 269, the ‘‘Pandemic
and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing
Innovation Act of 2019.’’
H.R. 269 reauthorizes and strengthens
emergency preparedness and response pro-
grams and efforts Health and Human Services
(HHS) and modernizes the regulatory frame-
work at the Federal Drug Administration (FDA)
for over-the-counter (OTC) drugs and provide
the FDA with stable funding to do so through
a new user fee program.
H.R. 269 strengthens HHS’s emergency
preparedness and response by improving
benchmarks and standards, addressing mili-
tary and civilian partnerships for trauma readi-
ness, and clarifying state liability law for volun-
teer health care professionals.
Additionally, H.R. 269 calls for reporting on
the national blood supply and public health
preparedness and response capabilities and
capacities of hospitals, long-term care facili-
ties, and other health care facilities.
H.R. 269 also allows for the regulation of
certain nonprescription drugs that are mar-
keted without an approved drug application,
addresses the misbranding of OTC drugs, and
calls for an annual update to Congress on the
conditions under which certain OTC cough
and cold drugs are generally recognized as
safe and effective for children.
H.R. 269 grants authority to assess and use
OTC monograph fees as a source of stable
funding to the FDA for its use to modernize
the regulatory framework.
This legislation will benefit all communities
by strengthening and assessing the emer-
gency response workforce, improving the pre-
paredness and response of health system in-
frastructure, taking into consideration at-risk
individuals and children, providing guidance
for participation in exercises and drills, and
create national advisory committees on disas-
ters.
In 2014, Dallas, Texas was faced with an
Ebola virus outbreak, one of the world’s most
deadly viruses.
Howard Duncan was visiting family in Dallas
when he became the first person diagnosed
with Ebola in the United States.
In addition to Duncan, two nurses who pro-
vided care to him also became infected.
Zika made its first appearance in Texas in
2015.
In 2016 Texas had 315 cases of Zika, and
in 2017, 55 cases were confirmed.
2017 brought a high severity flu season
along with Hurricane Harvey.
80,000 people died of the flu during the
2017 through 2018 season and over 30,000
people, or 9 percent of the population, were
hospitalized.
The severity of the 2017–2018 flu season
was in part due to the flu vaccine, unfortu-
nately, only being effective against only 30
percent of the viruses circulating.
Also in 2017, the 18th District of Texas and
the Gulf Coast saw the devastation of Hurri-
cane Harvey.
The economic cost of Hurricane Harvey was
$125 billion, tying it with Hurricane Katrina as
the most costly storm in U.S. history.
More importantly, 107 people lost their lives
due to Hurricane Harvey.
Then there is the ongoing shortage of med-
ical supplies, specifically saline solution.
Since 2014 there has been an ongoing
shortage of saline, and when Hurricane Maria
hit Puerto Rico in 2017, the country’s largest
supplier was damaged causing an even larger
shortage.
The saline shortage coupled with a severe
flu season in 2017–2018 has some worried
that the demand will quickly outpace the sup-
ply.
H.R. 269 will help address these and other
local, state, and national emergencies.
Not only does H.R. 269 address HHS emer-
gency preparedness, but it also allows the
FDA to better do its job to keep Americans
safe.
In 2018, the FDA issued at least 1,412
warning letters regarding the misbranding of
products under its jurisdiction.
An alarming number of these letters regard
OTC drugs and supplements.
H.R. 269 provides the FDA a stable funding
source so that it may continue its regulation of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:44 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.018 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H266 January 8, 2019
certain nonprescription drugs that are mar-
keted without an approved drug application
and address the misbranding of OTC drugs.
For these reasons, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 269.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PALLONE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 269.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
CHEMICAL FACILITY ANTI-TER-
RORISM STANDARDS PROGRAM
EXTENSION ACT
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 251) to extend by
two years the Chemical Facility Anti-
Terrorism Standards Program of the
Department of Homeland Security, and
for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 251
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Chemical
Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards Program
Extension Act’’.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF CHEMICAL FACILITY ANTI-
TERRORISM STANDARDS PROGRAM
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOME-
LAND SECURITY.
Section 5 of the Protecting and Securing
Chemical Facilities from Terrorist Attacks
Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–254; 6 U.S.C. 621
note) is amended by striking ‘‘4 years’’ and
inserting ‘‘6 years’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Mississippi (Mr. THOMPSON) and the
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. ROGERS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Mississippi.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days to
revise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on this
bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Mississippi?
There was no objection.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
251, the Chemical Facility Anti-Ter-
rorism Standards Program Extension
Act.
H.R. 251 would extend the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security’s authority
to carry out the Chemical Facility
Anti-Terrorism Standards, or CFATS,
program for 2 years. Under this novel
regulatory program, DHS works with
the owners and operators of our Na-
tion’s highest risk chemical facilities
to ensure those facilities have ade-
quate security measures in place.
Unless Congress acts expeditiously,
authority to regulate these high-risk
facilities will expire in a matter of
days. We cannot let this happen.
The risk of a terrorist attack on a
chemical facility is not conjecture; it
is a credible threat echoed by every
Homeland Security Secretary since
2005. Federal and State law enforce-
ment officers have uncovered multiple
plots aimed at chemical facilities, in-
cluding after the 9/11 attacks when it
came to light that the hijackers had
also scouted chemical plants.
National security experts, from
former Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff to President Obama,
have expressed concern that a terrorist
could seek to penetrate a chemical fa-
cility to carry out a weapon of mass
destruction attack. CFATS is the way
DHS partners with chemical facilities
to combat this threat. The program en-
joys support across party lines and
within the regulated community.
I led the initial bipartisan effort to
establish the program in 2006. CFATS
had a bumpy start, but over time, with
the stability of a long-term authoriza-
tion, in 2014, CFATS has developed into
a security program that is making the
U.S. demonstrably safer.
Don’t take my word for it; the data
speaks for itself. Since CFATS was cre-
ated, the number of chemical facilities
designated as high risk in the U.S. has
dropped by half. This achievement
means that communities near the
chemical plants are safer.
Still, like with any other program,
there are areas where it could be
strengthened. The 2-year extension
sought under this act is needed to give
the House and Senate ample time to
come together to address oversight
findings to improve the program.
It is unfortunate that in the waning
days of the previous Congress, bipar-
tisan House efforts to provide the regu-
lated community with confidence that
the CFATS security regime would con-
tinue were rebuffed by a couple of Sen-
ators who took the public position that
the program should be completely
ended unless it was changed in the way
they liked. In fact, they said as much
in a letter to House and Senate leader-
ship on October 23, 2018:
‘‘If Congress fails to reform the
CFATS program, we believe the pro-
gram should expire and not continue to
be reauthorized via annual appropria-
tions.’’
The approach they took was eerily
similar to the one the President is now
taking as he sets a partial government
shutdown in motion to try and compel
Congress to agree to providing nearly
$6 billion in funding for a border wall.
Mr. Speaker, the Secretary of Home-
land Security wrote to Congress in No-
vember urging for a short-term reau-
thorization.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
both the letter from my Senate col-
leagues and the letter from the Sec-
retary.
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, October 23, 2018.
Hon. MICHAEL MCCAUL,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. BENNIE THOMPSON,
Ranking Member, Committee on Homeland Se-
curity, House of Representatives, Wash-
ington, DC.
Hon. GREG WALDEN,
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. FRANK PALLONE,
Ranking Member, Committee on Energy and
Commerce, House of Representatives, Wash-
ington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN MCCAUL, CHAIRMAN WAL-
DEN, RANKING MEMBER THOMPSON, AND RANK-
ING MEMBER PALLONE: We write regarding S.
3405, the Protecting and Securing Chemical
Facilities from Terrorist Attacks Act of 2018.
This bill will reauthorize the Chemical Fa-
cility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS)
program at the Department of Homeland Se-
curity (DHS) with commonsense reforms to
secure chemical facilities while reducing the
regulatory burden on the private sector.
During the 113th Congress, the Senate
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs, House Committee on
Homeland Security, and House Committee
on Energy and Commerce worked together to
reauthorize and reform the CFATS program,
although the reauthorization is set to expire
in January 2019. At that time, the CFATS
program faced significant challenges, includ-
ing long backlogs to review security plans, a
flawed tiering methodology, program man-
agement issues, and questions about whether
the program was effectively reducing risk
and enhancing security.
The CFATS program currently regulates
over 3,000 chemical facilities nationwide. Al-
though DHS has improved its management
of the CFATS program over the past four
years, such as eliminating the estimated
nine-year backlog of reviewing facilities’
unique site security plans, it is evident that
the program needs additional reforms. On
June 12, 2018, the Senate Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs held a roundtable that included DHS,
the U.S. Government Accountability Office,
a CFATS chemical inspector, and a variety
of companies and industry groups.
During the roundtable, stakeholders pro-
vided feedback on how to further improve
the CFATS program. For example, industry
stakeholders expressed concerns about dupli-
cative regulatory regimes between DHS and
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives; advised that DHS should not
make terror screening mandatory for Tier 3
and Tier 4 facilities; complained about inad-
equate communication from DHS about
changes in facilities’ tiering; and discussed
how a CFATS recognition program can pro-
vide greater regulatory relief. We also heard
from a CFATS chemical inspector on basic
and continuous training issues and need for
improvement, particularly with respect to
cybersecurity. In addition, the Committee’s
oversight has shown a need for DHS to report
on new metrics that will show if the program
is effectively measuring risk reduction and
addressing the current threat environment.
Incorporating this feedback from CFATS
stakeholders, Chairman Johnson introduced
S. 3405 on September 4, 2018. Senator Capito
is a cosponsor. S. 3405 reauthorizes the
CFATS program for five years and brings
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.008 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H267
January 8, 2019
much-needed regulatory relief to the U.S.
chemical industry while effectively bal-
ancing safety and security. On September 26,
2018, the Senate Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs unani-
mously reported S. 3405 favorably by voice
vote. On September 28, 2018, Rep. Katko, Rep.
Moolenaar, and Rep. Cuellar introduced H.R.
6992, a bipartisan House companion.
In the coming weeks, we hope the commit-
tees of jurisdiction will continue to work to-
gether, as they have throughout this Con-
gress, to find areas of agreement to reau-
thorize and improve the CFATS program.
The purpose of the reauthorization process
must be to improve federal regulatory pro-
grams incorporating lessons learned from
Congressional oversight. S. 3405 provides a
path for the CFATS program to continue for
an additional five years without inflicting
burdensome and duplicative regulations on
DHS’s industry partners. If Congress fails to
reform the CFATS program, we believe the
program should expire and not continue to
be reauthorized via annual appropriations.
We look forward to working with you to
reauthorize the CFATS program with com-
monsense reforms before the conclusion of
the 115th Congress. Thank you for your at-
tention to this important subject.
Sincerely,
RON JOHNSON,
Chairman, Committee
on Homeland Secu-
rity and Govern-
mental Affairs.
SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO,
Chairman, Sub-
committee on Home-
land Security Com-
mittee on Appropria-
tions.
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY,
Washington, DC, November 29, 2018.
Hon. BENNIE THOMPSON,
Ranking Member, Committee on Homeland Se-
curity, House of Representatives, Wash-
ington, DC.
DEAR RANKING MEMBER THOMPSON: I write
to you today in support of the reauthoriza-
tion of the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism
Standards (CFATS). The Department of
Homeland Security’s (DHS) CFATS authori-
ties will expire in sixty days, which would
prevent us from setting security standards
and implementing measures that would re-
duce the risk of hazardous chemicals from
falling into the wrong hands.
We continue to face one of the most seri-
ous terrorist threat environments since 9/11.
Foreign terrorist organizations are urging
recruits to use simple weapons, including
toxic chemicals, to target public spaces and
events. Terrorists have already used rudi-
mentary chemical weapons on the battlefield
and we face the increased risk that they
could use these weapons outside of conflict
zones. In response, DHS has stepped up its
security posture, including the establish-
ment of the Office of Countering Weapons of
Mass Destruction. But we must also ensure
that dangerous agents are secured at the
source to prevent our enemies from exploit-
ing them.
The Department’s CFATS program is a
successful public-private partnership focused
on preventing the misuse of dangerous
chemicals. Since its inception in 2006, it has
played a key role in bringing our nation’s
chemical security standards to a higher
level, and it has made it harder for nefarious
actors to acquire deadly agents and to ex-
ploit potential security vulnerabilities for
attacks. Our national security depends on
the authorities provided by CFATS, from se-
curing cyber control systems to vetting fa-
cility personnel for terrorist ties. We cannot
let our guard down. The stakes are too high.
The Department has reviewed the language
included in S. 3405, Protecting and Securing
Chemical Facilities from Terrorist Attacks
Act of 2018, and understands the intent is to
improve this important regulatory program.
The Department agrees that critical review
of the program’s structure is important.
However, we believe that if the program were
to lapse—as a result of the current sun-set-
ting provision—it would increase the risk to
our country and create uncertainty across
the chemical industry.
To that end, I am requesting that Congress
consider a short-term reauthorization of the
program in its current form. If reauthorized,
I will direct the Cybersecurity and Infra-
structure Security Agency to conduct a com-
prehensive audit to assess additional oppor-
tunities to enhance program effectiveness
and efficiency. This time will afford us the
opportunity to take into account past per-
formance and to evaluate Congressional rec-
ommendations, industry impact, and poten-
tial changes that can strengthen the pro-
gram. This audit would be conducted in full
collaboration with the appropriate Congres-
sional committees.
In the four years since the initial multi-
year authorization in 2014, DHS has and con-
tinues to innovate and streamline the
CFATS program, while the chemical indus-
try, assured of the stability provided by a
longer-term authorization, has made long-
term investments in security measures. This
is a win for both government and industry.
This progress would be disrupted in the ab-
sence of compliance requirements and is yet
another reason why CFATS reauthorization
is needed.
Through your leadership, the American
people and our homeland are more secure
and resilient than ever before. Please con-
sider a short-term reauthorization of CFATS
so we can continue to be vigilant against
those who wish us harm. Should you have
any questions, please have your staff contact
the DHS Office of Legislative Affairs.
The Office of Management and Budget ad-
vises that there is no objection to the sub-
mission of this letter from the standpoint of
the Administration’s program.
Best Regards,
KIRSTJEN M. NIELSEN,
Secretary.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, as Secretary Nielsen notes in
her letter, ‘‘ . . . if the program were to
lapse—as a result of the current
sunsetting provision—it would increase
the risk to our country and create un-
certainty across the chemical indus-
try.’’
The Secretary and I may not agree
on everything, but we agree on this: We
cannot let this critical national secu-
rity program fall victim to this polit-
ical game of chicken.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today along with
my colleague, Chairman THOMPSON, in
strong support of H.R. 251, the Chem-
ical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program Extension Act. This bill reau-
thorizes the Chemical Facility Anti-
Terrorism Standards program, more
commonly known as CFATS, for 2
more years.
CFATS began as a program aimed at
keeping dangerous chemicals out of the
hands of terrorists. In recent years, it
has grown, in large part, due to part-
nerships between the Department of
Homeland Security and industry stake-
holders working to identify high-risk
facilities and ensuring appropriate se-
curity measures are in place to miti-
gate these risks.
The current CFATS authorization ex-
pires January 18, and swift action is
needed to make sure there is no lapse
in this program.
I believe this program has achieved
its purpose in making Americans safer
by helping chemical facilities secure
dangerous substances. Mr. Speaker, I
support this reauthorization and urge
my colleagues in the Senate to also act
with the urgency required to prevent
this program from expiring.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. RICH-
MOND).
Mr. RICHMOND. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the chairman for his leader-
ship on this issue before and now.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 251 to extend the DHS Chemical
Facilities Anti-Terrorism Standards,
CFATS, program for a period of 2
years.
Like many of my colleagues in the
House, my district is home to a number
of chemical facilities. They play a cru-
cial role in the local economy, but with
that comes a risk. The CFATS program
helps address that risk and makes com-
munities like mine safer, without
being overly burdensome.
Twelve years ago, the Bush adminis-
tration issued a call to action to ad-
dress credible terrorist threats to high-
risk chemical facilities across the
country. At the time, chemical facility
security was one of the biggest secu-
rity gaps we faced, and Secretary
Chertoff asked Congress to ‘‘pass a bal-
anced, risk-based security measure for
the chemical industry.’’
b 1645
Within the year, Congress attached
language to the DHS appropriations
bill, giving DHS temporary authority
to implement a chemical security pro-
gram. CFATS survived on annual au-
thorizations through the appropria-
tions process for 8 years, and the lack
of certainty and stability stunted the
program’s growth.
In 2014, after the tragic explosion at
the West, Texas, chemical facility,
Congress finally passed a 4-year au-
thorization bill. Since then, the CFATS
program has invested in better tools,
better trained personnel, and a better
strategic vision for the future. In
short, the CFATS program has ma-
tured.
Today, the program has the buy-in of
industry and bipartisan support on the
Hill. And although I think we can do
more to advance the objectives of the
program, it is clear that CFATS has
made us safer.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.019 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H268 January 8, 2019
Authorization for CFATS expires in a
matter of days. If Congress does not
act, we will lose a valuable antiterror-
ism program, and we will forfeit the
hard-earned progress that has been
achieved.
This bill would allow DHS to con-
tinue its work to secure chemical fa-
cilities, and it would give Congress an
opportunity to hear from stakeholders
and the department about the improve-
ments we should make.
In the last Congress, Chairman
THOMPSON and I made repeated re-
quests to prioritize CFATS through
hearings and markups. Unfortunately,
at this point, with the program staring
down expiration, it is simply too late
for that.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield an additional 30 sec-
onds to the gentleman from Louisiana.
Mr. RICHMOND. Passing H.R. 251
would allow us to continue the con-
versation around this important na-
tional security program without leav-
ing chemical facilities more vulnerable
to attacks.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues in
the House to support H.R. 251, and I
hope the Senate will follow suit.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. SHIMKUS), my friend
and colleague, and a member of the En-
ergy and Commerce Committee.
(Mr. SHIMKUS asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SHIMKUS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the ranking member for yielding to
me. I also congratulate him for his po-
sition, which his peers have appointed
him to. And I congratulate Chairman
THOMPSON for being chosen to hold
such a very important chairmanship.
Mr. Speaker, let me talk about my
strong support of H.R. 251. I urge all of
my colleagues to support this.
Last week, every Member of Congress
swore an oath to defend the United
States. That, Mr. Speaker, is what we
are here on the floor to do with this
bill.
In 10 days, as you have heard, the
CFATS—Chemical Facility Anti-Ter-
rorism Standards—program will sun-
set. This means that everything about
it, right down to its fundamental struc-
ture, legally disappears, including Fed-
eral outreach and networking to pre-
vent terrorism against chemical facili-
ties.
I know that there are those who
question the value of the current
Chemical Facility Anti-terrorism
Standards program. But they should
know that today’s CFATS program is
vastly improved from where it was a
mere 4 years ago.
How do I know this? How can I be so
sure?
Prior to this Congress, I served since
2011 as the chairman of the Energy and
Commerce Subcommittee on Environ-
ment with my colleague, Mr. TONKO,
who I am sure, will be speaking on this
bill. There, we had six hearings on the
CFATS program and its operations, the
most recent one 6 months ago. In fact,
in the last Congress, my committee
was the only one in either body to have
a hearing dedicated to CFATS where
DHS testified, for 3 hours on the
record, about this program.
I have also worked with the Govern-
ment Accountability Office throughout
that time on the program, and GAO,
likewise, has testified multiple times
before the subcommittee I chaired.
GAO’s first testimony exposed and de-
tailed the breadth of the problems in
the program, and more recently de-
scribed ‘‘a number of programmatic
changes’’ that not only addressed their
recommendations, but paved the way
for remedying remaining challenges
the program faces.
No Federal program is without some
area in need of improvement, but if
there was a time to justify winding the
program down or making serious
changes to how it operated, that time
was 4 years ago when the program was
in disarray. It defies logic to foist
major changes on CFATS now, when it
appears to have figured out its weak-
nesses and rectified its deficits.
To those who are skeptical of the
program, this extension gives time for
not only more assessment to answer
lingering questions, but also for
CFATS to demonstrate to Congress
that its progress is not fleeing and to
identify those security-related, ter-
rorism prevention reforms that truly
can only be fixed by statute.
The Chemical Facility Anti-Ter-
rorism Standards Act is an important,
antiterrorism-focused program. It is
not perfect, but it is a unique program
based on collaboration, focused on and
serving as a very important bulwark
against the threat of terrorism here in
the United States.
To this end, Congress has spent al-
most $900 million under CFATS for
Federal education, intelligence, tech-
nical assistance, and compliance ef-
forts. Moreover, American businesses
have invested billions of dollars, ex-
pecting a strong return for themselves
and their shareholders. We ought not
strand these investments and send
shareholders and terrorists a signal
that American assets will be more vul-
nerable tomorrow than they are today.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
vote for passage of H.R. 251, and I urge
the other body to quickly pass it as
well.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, how much time do I have re-
maining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Mississippi has 13 minutes
remaining.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. PAL-
LONE).
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman of the Homeland Secu-
rity Committee for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bipartisan bill to extend
the authority for the Department of
Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility
Anti-Terrorism Standards, or CFATS,
program for 2 years. The CFATS pro-
gram provides critical national secu-
rity protections. We should all be
alarmed that it is on the verge of laps-
ing.
Unless this bill becomes law, or the
President reconsiders his shutdown of
many parts of the Federal Government,
the CFATS program will expire in 10
days. The program is not perfect, but it
should be continued. The 2-year exten-
sion will give the committees of juris-
diction time to consider important im-
provements to the program without
fear that the program will lapse.
Since before the terrorist attacks of
September 11, 2001, experts have been
concerned about the vulnerability of
chemical plants to terrorist attacks.
These facilities hold large stores of in-
dustrial chemicals that pose a safety
and security risk to the American peo-
ple if they are released or detonated.
A recent report found that more than
134 million Americans live in the vul-
nerability zones around chemical fa-
cilities. The communities most at risk
are disproportionately low-income
communities and communities of
color.
I have been an advocate for increased
safety and security at our Nation’s
chemical facilities for many years, well
before the CFATS program was estab-
lished in 2006. My home State of New
Jersey, which has a high population
density, has a large number of chem-
ical facilities, so the consequences of
insufficient security are as real to us
as they are dire.
Unfortunately, the threats to these
facilities are only increasing as cli-
mate change makes extreme weather
more and more common. CFATS-regu-
lated facilities have been impacted by
hurricanes, floods, and wildfires, put-
ting us all at risk.
The highest profile case occurred in
the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, at
the Arkema chemical plant in Crosby,
Texas. The Chemical Safety Board re-
leased an investigative report on the
incident and found that the chemical
industry is wholly unprepared for ex-
treme weather events, like floods and
hurricanes. Last year, the New York
Times reported that more than 2,500
sites handling toxic chemicals are in
flood-prone areas around the country.
Instead of addressing these threats,
the Trump administration has moved
aggressively to diminish protections
for workers and communities around
chemical facilities. For instance, de-
spite losing in court, EPA continues to
try to roll back the Risk Management
Planning program improvement rule
that bolsters safety at these facilities.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BLUMENAUER). The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I yield an additional 1 minute
to the gentleman from New Jersey.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.022 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H269
January 8, 2019
Mr. PALLONE. EPA is also system-
atically ignoring risks to workers in
implementing the revised Toxic Sub-
stances Control Act. And President
Trump has twice tried to eliminate the
Chemical Safety Board, which inves-
tigates disasters at these facilities.
As chairman of the Energy and Com-
merce Committee, I will be conducting
thorough oversight of the increased
threats to dangerous chemical facili-
ties and this administration’s con-
certed efforts to disregard risks to
workers and hot spot communities.
That oversight will inform our future
efforts to improve the CFATS program.
We must ensure the safety and secu-
rity of the workers, first responders,
and communities living near our Na-
tion’s chemical facilities. That means
extending this program while we con-
sider how to improve it.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle on the Energy
and Commerce Committee and the bi-
partisan relationship of the Committee
on Homeland Security for working
with me on this important bill to en-
sure continuity of this program, and I
urge that we pass this bill imme-
diately.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. TONKO).
Mr. TONKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of the Chemical Facility Anti-Ter-
rorism Standards Program Extension
Act. This bipartisan bill is supported
by the full committee and relevant
subcommittee chairs and ranking
members of the Committee on Energy
and Commerce and the Committee on
Homeland Security.
The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity’s Chemical Facility Anti-Ter-
rorism Standards, or CFATS, program
is an important part of our Nation’s
counterterrorism efforts to secure
high-risk chemical facilities.
The program was created in 2006 and
it had its first long-term reauthoriza-
tion in 2014. Unfortunately, without
further congressional action, CFATS
will terminate later this month.
The bill before us would grant a
clean, 2-year extension of the program.
I believe this will give the new Con-
gress ample time to continue program
oversight and make any reforms nec-
essary for the next long-term exten-
sion.
For one, I strongly believe we should
be looking at all aspects of risks at
chemical facilities, not just terrorism.
Chemical fires, explosions, and releases
can have serious consequences, regard-
less of whether an incident was an acci-
dent, a natural disaster, or an act of
terrorism. A holistic approach to
chemical risks, which obviously in-
cludes security, should also account for
workers and communities’ safety and
facilities’ resilience.
Recent natural disasters have ex-
posed previously unaccounted for vul-
nerabilities at some facilities. During
Hurricane Harvey, we saw the poten-
tial for devastation, when a power out-
age and equipment failure led to a sig-
nificant chemical fire at the Arkema
facility in Crosby, Texas.
Ensuring that these critical sites are
resilient to risks associated with cli-
mate change and extreme weather
events will be critical for the long-
term safety and security of not only
the sites, but also surrounding commu-
nities.
I want to recognize the efforts of Jac-
queline Cohen and other members of
the Energy and Commerce Committee
Democratic staff for their work on this
bill.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 251, and I hope we can
continue bipartisan efforts to improve
the program as we work toward a long-
term reauthorization in the 116th Con-
gress.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I urge Members to support this bill,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, H.R. 251 was introduced by
Democratic and Republican leadership
of the Homeland Security Committee
and the Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee.
This bill would allow the Department
of Homeland Security to continue
working with high risk chemical facil-
ity owners and operators throughout
the U.S. to guard dangerous chemicals
against malicious actors.
b 1700
For proof of how grave this threat is,
one need look no further than West,
Texas, where, in 2013, a perpetrator set
fire to a fertilizer plant, causing an ex-
plosion that leveled an entire town.
More than a dozen first responders and
civilians lost their lives in the blast.
Allowing authority to lapse would
throw away the progress that has been
made since 2014 and needlessly make
our communities less secure.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues in
the House to support H.R. 251 and call
on the Senate to join us in maintaining
this important security program.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as a sen-
ior member of the Homeland Security Com-
mittee, I rise in support of H.R. 251, the
‘‘Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program Extension Act,’’ which will extend by
two years the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism
Standards Program (CFATS) of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security (DHS) and for
other purposes.
I thank Chairman Bernie Thompson of the
House Homeland Security Committee for his
leadership in introducing this important bill to
improve chemical facility security.
The Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Stand-
ards CFATS program is the first in the nation
to focus specifically on security at high-risk
chemical facilities.
Through this regulatory program, the De-
partment of Homeland Security (DHS) works
with facilities to ensure they have security
measures in place to reduce the risk associ-
ated with certain hazardous chemicals, and
prevent them from being exploited in terrorist
attack.
These facilities must submit their chemical
holdings to DHS via a process known as a
Top Screen, which in turn is used by DHS to
determine if the facilities is considered high
risk and must develop a security plan.
The Department of Homeland Security re-
ported more than 90,000 Top-Screen submis-
sions from more than 40,000 unique facilities,
of this number, CFATS program currently
cover 3,355 facilities.
Today, Texas is the national leader in petro-
leum refining and chemical products produc-
tion.
Texas alone produces 5.1 million barrels of
crude oil per day, which accounted 29 percent
of total U.S. refining capacity.
According to the Businessintexas.com, more
than 3,700 energy-related establishments are
located within the Houston Metropolitan Statis-
tical Area.
The Houston area contributes 40 percent of
the national petrochemical capacity.
The great benefits of the chemical industry
provide to our nation a significant economic
strength that cannot be underestimated.
Unfortunately, this great reward does not
come without risks.
In 2013, a deadly fertilizer plant explosion in
West, Texas killed 15 people, injured over 200
people and wiped out hundreds of homes.
On November 15, 2014, a leak of nearly
24,000 pounds of toxic chemical killed four
workers at the E. I. DuPont de Nemours in-
secticide plant in La Porte, Texas.
In 2017, Hurricane Harvey caused a chem-
ical plant explosion.
That is why it is important that we vote
today to implement the following recommenda-
tions from the report:
1. Extend by two years the Chemical Facility
Anti-Terrorism Standards program of the De-
partment Homeland Security and other pur-
poses.
2. Continue outreach in support to the DHS
effort to identify chemical facility that are high
risks, which will expand availability of CFATS
compliance assistance materials and engage
stakeholder to raise awareness of CFATS re-
quirement and make improve the safety.
Because the mission of DHS is to ensure
that our homeland is safe, secure, and resil-
ient against terrorism and other hazards, ef-
fective communication within the organization
is crucial.
Since its founding, the Department of
Homeland Security has overcome many chal-
lenges as an organization but much more
progress must be made regarding Chemical
Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards program.
Although not a panacea, H.R. 251 is a step
in the right direction because it will help im-
prove DHS’ overall functions so that it can
more effectively protect our people.
I urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting this important legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 251.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.023 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H270 January 8, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
CLARITY ON SMALL BUSINESS
PARTICIPATION IN CATEGORY
MANAGEMENT ACT OF 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 226) to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to include best in class des-
ignations in the annual report on small
business goals prepared by the Admin-
istrator of the Small Business Admin-
istration, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 226
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Clarity on
Small Business Participation in Category
Management Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. INCLUSION OF BEST IN CLASS DESIGNA-
TIONS IN ANNUAL REPORT ON
SMALL BUSINESS GOALS.
Section 15(h) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 644(h)) is amended by adding at the
end the following new paragraph:
‘‘(4) BEST IN CLASS SMALL BUSINESS PARTICI-
PATION REPORTING.—
‘‘(A) ADDENDUM.—The Administrator, in
addition to the requirements under para-
graph (2), shall include in the report required
by such paragraph, for each best in class des-
ignation—
‘‘(i) the total amount of spending Govern-
mentwide in such designation;
‘‘(ii) the number of small business concerns
awarded contracts and the dollar amount of
such contracts awarded within each such
designation to each of the following—
‘‘(I) qualified HUBZone small business con-
cerns;
‘‘(II) small business concerns owned and
controlled by women;
‘‘(III) small business concerns owned and
controlled by service-disabled veterans; and
‘‘(IV) small business concerns owned and
controlled by socially and economically dis-
advantaged individuals.
‘‘(B) BEST IN CLASS DEFINED.—The term
‘best in class’ has the meaning given such
term by the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
‘‘(C) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The Administrator
shall report on the information described by
subparagraph (A) beginning on the date that
such information is available in the Federal
Procurement Data System, the System for
Award Management, or any successor to
such systems.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the measure under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my
bill, H.R. 226, the Clarity on Small
Business Participation in Category
Management Act of 2019.
Let me begin by welcoming back
Ranking Member CHABOT to this new
Congress. I have been privileged to
serve on the Small Business Com-
mittee for two decades and appreciate
the relationship the ranking member
and I have cultivated. I look forward to
working with him on this bill and oth-
ers as we remain steadfast in our ef-
forts to ensure small businesses have
the resources to thrive now and in the
future.
Our committee has long acknowl-
edged small businesses’ critical role in
the $500 billion a year Federal market-
place. When small firms are awarded
Federal contracts, the result is a win-
win.
Category management is believed by
some to be the best strategy to get
agencies the lowest price, but my com-
mittee has heard otherwise, and the
data backs this up. Small contractors
on the multiple award schedule con-
sistently provide lower prices to agen-
cies than those offered through cat-
egory management.
Despite this, agencies have increased
the use of category management,
which not just increases costs to the
Federal Government but also limits
contracts to small vendors. In our com-
mittee hearings last year, we heard
that more and more contracts are
being consolidated and put out of the
reach of small businesses as a result of
category management.
This bill is a commonsense first step
to address the need of small vendors,
particularly minority-, women-, and
veteran-owned small businesses, to re-
main competitors in the Federal mar-
ketplace. By requiring that con-
tracting activity under this new re-
gime of category management be re-
ported in the annual goaling report
from agencies to Congress, today’s bill
protects the industrial base by creating
a mechanism for much-needed account-
ability.
H.R. 226 gives us the ability to ana-
lyze the data so that we can truly un-
derstand the role category manage-
ment is playing in the marketplace and
make changes accordingly.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to offer this
bill to provide accountability to the
category management regime. I urge
Members to support this legislation,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
226, the Clarity on Small Business Par-
ticipation in Category Management
Act of 2019.
I thank Chairwoman VELÁZQUEZ for
working with us in a bipartisan man-
ner on this bill, as we have done over
the years on a whole range of other
bills, whether the Democrats are in the
majority or the Republicans are in the
majority. On this committee, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ and I have been able to
work in a bipartisan manner, and we
appreciate that very much on this bill
and many other things as well.
Category management is a procure-
ment initiative that is being adopted
across the Federal Government. If im-
plemented properly, it can be a bene-
ficial tool, allowing the government to
better understand its purchasing habits
and identify cost savings, where appro-
priate.
However, as we discovered in a full
committee hearing that we held on this
topic last Congress, setting mandatory
targets to manage agency spending
may result in unintended consequences
that could impact the small business
industrial base.
Specifically, this initiative may in-
advertently reduce competition to only
a few vendors and may discourage new
and emerging small businesses from
entering the Federal marketplace.
As a result, we may see a decrease in
competition and an exodus of small
businesses from the Federal con-
tracting base. We should ensure that
maximum opportunities are given to
small businesses as we continue to pur-
sue cost savings across the Federal
Government.
While I applaud the administration’s
efforts to reduce waste and identify
areas where savings could be achieved,
when we do so, we should try to avoid
harming small businesses whenever
possible.
H.R. 226 takes a first step toward as-
sessing the impacts of category man-
agement on small businesses by requir-
ing the Small Business Administration
to report exactly how much is awarded
to small businesses through the best in
class contracts. Establishing this base-
line and regularly monitoring these
numbers is critical.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Mississippi (Mr. THOMPSON), the chair-
man of the Committee on Homeland
Security.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my friend, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, for yielding me the time.
Mr. Speaker, we are currently on the
18th day of President Trump’s govern-
ment shutdown. On a daily basis, the
economic harm of the shutdown is
being felt more acutely by small busi-
nesses in the Federal marketplace than
their larger competitors. In contrast to
large firms, small firms often rely on
just a few contracts to provide a large
portion of their annual revenue. As
such, many report that, during the
shutdown, they may have to lay off
staff.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.026 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H271
January 8, 2019
Small firms are projected to lose out
on nearly $301 million daily in new con-
tract work because agencies cannot
enter into new contracts during the
shutdown.
I urge the President to put America
first and agree to reopen the govern-
ment.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
226, the Clarity on Small Business Par-
ticipation and Category Management
Act of 2019. H.R. 226 seeks to improve
reporting on small business participa-
tion in Federal contracting.
This legislation requires the Small
Business Administration to report to
Congress on the number of small busi-
nesses awarded best in class contracts
and the dollar amount of such con-
tracts. This information should help us
get answers regarding how category
management impacts the participation
of small businesses, including minor-
ity-owned, women-owned, and veteran-
owned companies, in the Federal mar-
ketplace.
Market research has shown that past
contract consolidation efforts by the
Federal Government have decreased
the number of small prime contracting
opportunities in the Federal work-
place. In fiscal year 2017, the percent-
age of contracting dollars that went to
small businesses was 24 percent, down
from 26 percent in fiscal year 2015. As
such, concerns about the impact of cat-
egory management on small businesses
are understandable.
As a longtime advocate for small
businesses, I am pleased to cosponsor
this legislation, and I thank the gentle-
woman from New York for bringing
this bill forward.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support small businesses by voting in
favor of this legislation.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, before I
address just some final points about
this bill, I have to respond a bit to the
gentleman from Mississippi relative to
the shutdown, which we all hope will
be resolved as soon as possible.
I don’t think anybody in this body
wants portions of the government to
shut down and people not to be paid
during that period of time. Hopefully,
they will be paid in the future, but we
don’t necessarily want to pay people
for not working, because we don’t want
them not to be working in the first
place. So we need to get the govern-
ment back open.
That being said, at this point, there
is a standoff because the President and
many Members in this body and in the
other body believe that it is time for us
to enhance our border security, and
that is one of the principal issues right
now and why the government is not
open completely. Most of the govern-
ment is open. It is a relatively small
portion. However, any portion of the
government that is closed is too much.
But we do have folks who have been
coming across illegally at our southern
border, and many believe that we do
need to enhance the security at that
border. Part of that is a wall, or bar-
rier, or substantial fencing, or one
thing or another—whatever you want
to call it—and we need do that. We owe
it to the American people to do that.
So with that being said, I will just
leave it there.
Mr. Speaker, I do believe that we
ought to be looking to save taxpayer
dollars in the procurement process, and
category management may be a tool to
do just that. However, we must main-
tain a vibrant industrial base that has
a healthy and growing population of
small firms to increase competition,
spur innovation, and drive down costs.
This commonsense bill increases
oversight on the administration’s ef-
forts to streamline the procurement
process and aims to ensure small firms
are not harmed in that process.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bipartisan legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, let
me just respond to the gentleman’s
comment regarding the shutdown. The
fact of the matter is that the President
campaigned and told the American
people that he will build a wall and
that it will be paid for by the Govern-
ment of Mexico, and that is not what
he is telling us now.
Besides, this is the President’s shut-
down, and he was very proud when he
made that comment to Speaker PELOSI
and the minority leader, CHUCK SCHU-
MER.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud of this im-
portant legislation to provide much-
needed oversight of small business par-
ticipation in the streamlined acquisi-
tion strategy known as category man-
agement.
b 1715
H.R. 226 requires that contracting ac-
tivity under this new regime be re-
ported in the annual goaling report
from agencies to Congress. This data
would allow us to better understand
how small firms fare under this new
system and make adjustments if need-
ed to guarantee an equitable playing
field.
This bill protects the small business
industrial base by giving a mechanism
for much-needed accountability. It is
supported by the National Small Busi-
ness Association, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, and the National Electrical
Contractors Association, which is the
voice of the $171 billion electrical con-
struction industry.
I thank the ranking member for his
support of H.R. 226, and I remain com-
mitted to ensuring small firms are
competitive within the Federal mar-
ketplace.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 226, the ‘‘Clarity on Small
Business Participation in Category Manage-
ment,’’ which amends the Small Business Act.
This act would require the Administrator of
the Small Business Administration to provide
in its business goal report information as to
how many small businesses are participating
in the ‘‘best in class’’ vehicles so Congress
can ascertain the effectiveness of such con-
tracting vehicles for small firms.
H.R. 226 amends ‘‘the Small Business Act
to include best in class designations in the an-
nual report on small business goals prepared
by the Administrator of the Small Business Ad-
ministration, and for other purposes.’’
The report is to include among other things,
the number of small business concerns award-
ed contracts and the dollar amount of such
contracts awarded within each such designa-
tion to qualified HUBZone small business con-
cerns, small business concerns owned and
controlled by women, small business concerns
owned and controlled by service-disabled vet-
erans, and small business concerns owned
and controlled by social and economically dis-
advantaged individuals.
Mr. Speaker, 99.9 percent of women-owned
businesses are small businesses, whereas the
majority of male- and female-owned employer
businesses have fewer than five employees,
more male-owned small businesses employ
five or more employees.
Of the 30 million small businesses nation-
wide, 8 million are owned by minorities.
Between 2007 and 2012 minority owned
small businesses increased in volume by
around 38 percent.
Small businesses ‘‘are the engines of job
creation in the United States.’’
Small businesses contribute to growth and
vitality in many important areas of economic
and socioeconomic development.
Small businesses create jobs and job oppor-
tunities, spark innovation, and provide oppor-
tunities for women and minorities to achieve fi-
nancial success and independence.
For these reasons, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 226.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 226.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
INCENTIVIZING FAIRNESS IN
SUBCONTRACTING ACT
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 227) to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to specify what credit is given
for certain subcontractors and to pro-
vide a dispute process for non-payment
to subcontractors, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 227
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the
‘‘Incentivizing Fairness in Subcontracting
Act’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:57 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.028 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H272 January 8, 2019
SEC. 2. SMALL BUSINESS LOWER-TIER SUBCON-
TRACTING.
Section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 637(d)) is amended—
(1) by amending paragraph (16) to read as
follows:
‘‘(16) CREDIT FOR CERTAIN SMALL BUSINESS
CONCERN SUBCONTRACTORS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of deter-
mining whether or not a prime contractor
has attained the percentage goals specified
in paragraph (6)—
‘‘(i) if the subcontracting goals pertain
only to a single contract with the Federal
agency, the prime contractor may elect to
receive credit for small business concerns
performing as first tier subcontractors or
subcontractors at any tier pursuant to the
subcontracting plans required under para-
graph (6)(D) in an amount equal to the total
dollar value of any subcontracts awarded to
such small business concerns; and
‘‘(ii) if the subcontracting goals pertain to
more than one contract with one or more
Federal agencies, or to one contract with
more than one Federal agency, the prime
contractor may only receive credit for first
tier subcontractors that are small business
concerns.
‘‘(B) COLLECTION AND REVIEW OF DATA ON
SUBCONTRACTING PLANS.—The head of each
contracting agency shall ensure that—
‘‘(i) the agency collects and reports data on
the extent to which contractors of the agen-
cy meet the goals and objectives set forth in
subcontracting plans submitted pursuant to
this subsection; and
‘‘(ii) the agency periodically reviews data
collected and reported pursuant to subpara-
graph (A) for the purpose of ensuring that
such contractors comply in good faith with
the requirements of this subsection and sub-
contracting plans submitted by the contrac-
tors pursuant to this subsection.
‘‘(C) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this paragraph shall be construed to allow a
Federal agency to establish a goaling re-
quirement for lower-tier subcontractors of a
prime contractor that is eligible to receive
lower-tier subcontracting credit under this
paragraph’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(18) DISPUTE PROCESS FOR NON-PAYMENT TO
SUBCONTRACTORS.—
‘‘(A) NOTICE TO AGENCY.—With respect to a
contract with a Federal agency, a subcon-
tractor of a prime contractor on such con-
tract may, if the subcontractor has not re-
ceived payment for performance on such con-
tract within 30 days of the completion of
such performance, notify the Office of Small
and Disadvantaged Business Utilization
(‘OSDBU’) of the Federal agency and the
prime contractor of such lack of payment, if
such notice is provided to the agency within
the 15-day period following the end of such 30
days.
‘‘(B) AGENCY DETERMINATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Upon receipt of a notice
described under subparagraph (A), the
OSDBU shall verify whether such lack of
payment has occurred and determine wheth-
er such lack of payment is due to an undue
restriction placed on the prime contractor
by an action of the Federal agency.
‘‘(ii) RESPONSE DURING DETERMINATION.—
During the period in which the OSDBU is
making the determination under clause (i),
the prime contractor may respond to both
the subcontractor and the OSDBU with rel-
evant verifying documentation to either
prove payment or allowable status of non-
payment.
‘‘(C) CURE PERIOD.—If the OSDBU verifies
the lack of payment under subparagraph (B)
and determines that such lack of payment is
not due to an action of the Federal agency,
the OSDBU shall notify the prime contractor
and provide the prime contractor with a 15-
day period in which the prime contractor
may make the payment owed to the subcon-
tractor.
‘‘(D) RESULT OF NONPAYMENT.—If, after no-
tifying the prime contractor under subpara-
graph (C), the OSDBU determines that the
prime contractor has not fully paid the
amount owed within the 15-day cure period
described under subparagraph (C), the
OSDBU shall ensure that such failure to pay
is reflected in the Contractor Performance
Assessment Reporting system (or any suc-
cessor system).’’.
SEC. 3. MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS WITH RE-
SPECT TO CREDIT UNDER A SUB-
CONTRACTING PLAN.
Section 8(d)(6) of the Small Business Act
(15 U.S.C. 637(d)(6)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraphs (G) and
(H) as subparagraphs (H) and (I), respectively
(and conforming the margins accordingly);
and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (F) the
following:
‘‘(G) a recitation of the types of records
the successful offeror or bidder will maintain
to demonstrate that procedures have been
adopted to substantiate the credit the suc-
cessful offeror or bidder will elect to receive
under paragraph (16)(A)(i);’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
227, the Incentivizing Fairness in Sub-
contracting Act.
In fiscal year 2017, the Federal Gov-
ernment purchased goods and services
worth over $508 billion through over 22
million contract actions. Unfortu-
nately, not all this money remained
with the original prime contractor and,
instead, trickled down to subcontrac-
tors.
Subcontractors are growing in impor-
tance as an avenue for small businesses
to work with the government, so it is
important that barriers to entry are
reduced. Today’s bill does just that by
helping contractors get the credit they
need to meet Federal requirements,
while also creating a dispute process
for nonpayment—a recurring problem
for those working with the Federal
Government.
By improving the tools that exist for
small businesses to become subcontrac-
tors, today’s measure will draw in
more small businesses that are not reg-
ular government contractors. This is a
critical step to expanding the indus-
trial base and including more small
firms.
Most importantly, it ensures more
small contractors have just recourse
through the Office of Small and Dis-
advantaged Business Utilization if pay-
ment is not received within 30 days of
completion. Timely payment protects
small contractors who do not have the
overhead margins to continue oper-
ating without being paid.
Today’s bill is endorsed by the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the National
Small Business Association, and the
National Electrical Contractors Asso-
ciation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
227, the Incentivizing Fairness in Sub-
contracting Act.
I, again, would like to thank Chair-
woman VELÁZQUEZ as well as the gen-
tleman from Mississippi, TRENT KELLY,
for their leadership on this important
bipartisan legislation.
As this committee has established
time and again, small businesses play a
vital role in the health and strength of
the Federal marketplace. A vibrant
small business community promotes
innovation and competition, which re-
sults in better quality products and
services provided at a lower cost to the
taxpayer. Therefore, it is critically im-
portant that strong incentives exist to
entice new small businesses to consider
doing business in the Federal space.
One of the primary methods small
businesses use to gain a foothold in
Federal contracting is through subcon-
tracting. As such, they rely on large
prime contractors to make these op-
portunities available and to receive
payment in a timely manner. This
often creates an imbalance of power
with the large prime contractor having
the advantage.
This bill provides small businesses
with more leverage by establishing a
new measure of accountability on large
prime contractors. Small subcontrac-
tors may seek redress with the Federal
agency small business advocate to re-
solve any nonpayment issues stemming
from the large prime contractor. Unre-
solved payment issues will reflect poor-
ly on the prime contractor’s record,
which will impact the prime contrac-
tor’s ability to win future contracts.
This bill establishes an important
safeguard to discourage large prime
contractors from taking advantage of
their small subcontractors. The result
will be a stronger and healthier indus-
trial base, which is good for govern-
ment. It is also, importantly, good for
the taxpayer. I urge my colleagues to
support this commonsense legislation.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I want to
thank the gentlewoman, again, for her
leadership on this, as well as Mr.
KELLY.
As we have discussed, this legislation
provides an important safeguard to dis-
courage large prime contractors from
taking advantage of their small sub-
contractors. Given how important
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:44 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.014 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H273
January 8, 2019
small subcontractors are to the Fed-
eral procurement process, it is critical
we ensure that they have an adequate
system of redress should they have le-
gitimate issues with the prime contrac-
tors. Once again, we are looking out for
the little guy, which is what this com-
mittee does, and I think we all really
appreciate that.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bipartisan legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to intro-
duce this piece of legislation which
protects our small contractors by up-
dating the subcontracting goaling re-
gime through increased flexibility and
accountability.
Establishing incentives to count low-
tier subcontracting awards and a dis-
pute process for subcontractors to uti-
lize in the event of nonpayment en-
sures a healthy Federal procurement
marketplace. Today’s legislation
spreads the economic power of Federal
procurement to more companies and
the communities where they are lo-
cated.
I want to thank the gentleman from
Mississippi (Mr. KELLY) for cospon-
soring this critical legislation and for
all his work on this issue while serving
on the Small Business Committee, and
I would like to also take this oppor-
tunity to thank the ranking member.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 227, which amends the Small
Business Act to specify what credit is given for
certain subcontractors and to provide a dis-
pute process for non-payment to subcontrac-
tors.
Mr. Speaker, it is of the utmost importance
that we pass this legislation to ensure sub-
contractors receive the credit and payment for
performance that they have earned.
Between 2010 and 2016, Texas’ population
grew at the second-greatest rate in the coun-
try, accompanied by increased demand for
residential, retail and commercial space.
With this increased demand came an in-
crease in small businesses and the need for
subcontractors across the state.
This fact alone explains why H.R. 227 is so
important not only to small businesses
throughout the country but specifically the
small businesses and subcontractors in Texas
that deserve compensation for their perform-
ance in a timely manner.
The Houston Chapter of the American Sub-
contractors Association (ASA–HC) is a collec-
tive voice for a diverse membership that was
created in order to ensure quality, safety and
ethics in construction trades.
ASA–HC advocates for legislative reform
and provides educational opportunities for the
subcontracting community.
Since ASA–HC’s founding in 1966, more
than 2,500 member companies throughout the
United States, and more than 160 members in
Houston benefit from the advocacy ASA offers
to its members.
These hard-working Americans deserve
nothing less than our maximal support for this
bill.
Not only do these Americans deserve our
support for H.R. 227, they deserve our max-
imum efforts to end the government shutdown.
Thousands of subcontractors whose pay
comes from federal contracts have little hope
of recouping the pay they lost when the gov-
ernment is not operating.
Julie Burr, a single mom from Kansas City,
struggles to support her family during this
shutdown.
She has been out of work and cannot re-
ceive pay for the two weeks prior to the shut-
down because there is no one to process her
time sheet.
She has taken extra shifts in her side job as
a seasonal employee at Barnes and Noble,
but it only makes up 25 percent of what her
normal pay would be and she has had to ask
for an extension on her rent payment, which
was due on the first of the month.
Ethan James, a 21 year old minimum-wage
contractor can only realistically miss three to
four days of work before his standard of living
is compromised.
He now risks missing his rent payment be-
cause he is not receiving the checks he de-
pends on to sustain himself.
These hardworking Americans deserve
more, we cannot afford to drag our feet on
such an important issue.
I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for
H.R. 227 and standing true to our nation’s
commitment to supporting and protecting small
businesses and subcontractors.
I include in the RECORD a new article enti-
tled ‘‘During Shutdown, Janitors, Security
Guards and other Federal Contractors receive
no back pay.’’
[From ABC News, January 2, 2019]
DURING SHUTDOWN, JANITORS, SECURITY
GUARDS, AND OTHER FEDERAL CONTRACTORS
RECEIVE NO BACK PAY
(By Stephanie Ebbs and Anne Flaherty)
While hundreds of thousands of federal
workers will have to wait for back pay after
the government shutdown ends, thousands
more whose pay comes from federal con-
tracts have little hope of recouping the pay
they lose when the government isn’t oper-
ating. Some contractors are turning to other
means to make up for the lost income, like
taking extra shifts at a second job.
Julie Burr, an administrative assistant for
the Department of Transportation in Kansas
City, said she doesn’t expect any compensa-
tion for the time she’s been out of work dur-
ing the shutdown and that she can’t even get
paid for the two weeks before it started be-
cause there’s no one to process her time
sheet.
‘‘I’m just trying to take one day at a time
honestly,’’ Burr said in a phone interview. ‘‘I
keep turning on the news and think maybe
today’s the day something will happen.’’
She said she’s taken extra shifts in her side
job as a seasonal employee at Barnes and
Noble but it only makes up 25 percent of
what her normal pay would be and she’s had
to ask for an extension on her rent payment,
which was due on the first of the month.
Burr even set up a GoFundMe page to try
and help with some of the expenses and is
concerned that even if she can set up a pay-
ment plan it could hurt her credit score.
‘‘I’m a single mom . . . we aren’t a two in-
come family or anything. It’s just me, and
I’m kind of trying to make things meet and
if it comes to the point of selling items in
the house I’ll do that,’’ she said.
During previous government shutdowns,
Congress has passed resolutions approving
back pay for most federal workers. But con-
tract workers like custodians and security
officers, whose hourly wages are funded by
private companies, don’t get paid unless they
work.
According to 32BJ SEIU, that means sud-
den unemployment with no end in sight for
the 370 Smithsonian security officers in
Washington D.C. protecting the popular mu-
seums—which house everything from Judy
Garland’s ruby red slippers from ‘‘The Wiz-
ard of Oz’’ to Charles Lindbergh’s Spirit of
St. Louis airplane—as well as the 50 security
officers who work for Smithsonian museums
in New York.
32BJ SEIU is a large property service
workers’ union that estimates some 2,000 of
its members are facing potential paycheck
disruptions as a result of the shutdown, in-
cluding some 70 custodians at the Agri-
culture Department alone.
Most of those workers aren’t eligible for
back pay because they are paid by private
companies with government contracts in-
stead of being government employees.
It’s a particularly ironic twist for federal
workers caught in the showdown between
President Donald Trump and congressional
Democrats over funding for a border wall.
The union said that almost of all of its
members are African-American or Latino
and many don’t support Trump’s efforts to
build a border wall.
‘‘A true focus on America would mean sup-
port for the hardworking men and women
who keep our government safe, clean and
running every day while supporting their
own families and communities across the
country,’’ said Jaime Contreras, a 32BJ SEIU
vice president, in a statement.
‘‘I wish everybody would just sit down and
come to a compromise,’’ she said.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 227.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SMALL BUSINESS ADVOCACY
IMPROVEMENTS ACT OF 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 128) to clarify the primary
functions and duties of the Office of
Advocacy of the Small Business Ad-
ministration, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 128
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Small Busi-
ness Advocacy Improvements Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENT TO PRIMARY FUNCTIONS
AND DUTIES OF THE OFFICE OF AD-
VOCACY OF THE SMALL BUSINESS
ADMINISTRATION.
(a) PRIMARY FUNCTIONS.—Section 202 of
Public Law 94–305 (15 U.S.C. 634b) is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and the
international economy’’ after ‘‘economy’’;
(2) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘com-
plete’’ and inserting ‘‘compete’’; and
(3) in paragraph (12), by striking ‘‘serviced-
disabled’’ and inserting ‘‘service-disabled’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:57 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.031 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H274 January 8, 2019
(b) DUTIES.—Section 203(a) of Public Law
94–305 (15 U.S.C. 634c) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(2) in paragraph (6), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7) represent the views and interests of
small businesses before foreign governments
and international entities for the purpose of
contributing to regulatory and trade initia-
tives which may affect small businesses.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
128, the Small Business Advocacy Im-
provements Act.
There are nearly 30 million small
businesses in the United States rep-
resenting more than 99 percent of all
businesses. These small firms employ
nearly 50 percent of all private-sector
employees in the U.S. The SBA Office
of Advocacy represents an important
tool for these businesses because it is
their voice that the office embodies in
all matters of government.
Clarifying the authority of Advocacy
to examine international economic
data and represent small business in-
terests in international discussions,
particularly in trade negotiations,
raises the ability of small American
firms to participate in a global market.
The office has already been partici-
pating in various international work-
ing groups on regulatory cooperation
and trade initiatives with the sole
focus of protecting and raising the in-
terests of small businesses.
Their unique knowledge is necessary
in trade negotiations to prevent indi-
rect consequences from harming small
firms and providing a more equitable
playing field within international
trade. That is why I urge my col-
leagues to support the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
128, the Small Business Advocacy Im-
provements Act of 2019.
I would like to once again thank
Chairwoman VELÁZQUEZ for working in
a cooperative and bipartisan manner to
bring this measure to the House floor.
I would also like to thank our col-
league from Kentucky (Mr. COMER) for
his leadership in sponsoring this legis-
lation. He will be speaking here short-
ly.
This bipartisan bill, which passed the
House back in the 115th Congress, the
last Congress, simply clarifies the role
of the Office of Advocacy of the United
States Small Business Administration,
which is charged with representing
small businesses before Federal agen-
cies whose policies and activities may
affect them. The office also examines
the role of small businesses in the
American economy and the contribu-
tions they make in improving competi-
tion.
Advocacy is vital to ensuring that
small firms are heard when the Federal
Government makes policy decisions
that will impact them. The current law
is silent regarding Advocacy’s ability
to study the role of small businesses in
international economies, which is an
important avenue for many small com-
panies as they seek opportunities to
expand overseas. This legislation would
clarify that Advocacy should include
international economies as part of its
research functions, which will help us
to better understand how international
economies impact our Nation’s small
businesses.
The current law is also silent regard-
ing Advocacy’s authority to represent
small businesses before foreign govern-
ments and international entities. This
bill clarifies that Advocacy may rep-
resent small business views and inter-
ests before foreign governments and
other international entities by contrib-
uting to regulatory and trade initia-
tives. Considering Advocacy’s experi-
ence with regulatory and trade initia-
tives, it makes sense to ensure that the
needs of America’s small businesses are
fairly represented in the international
space as well.
Again, I want to thank the sponsor of
this legislation, the gentleman from
Kentucky (Mr. COMER), and Chair-
woman VELÁZQUEZ for working on this
important legislation and producing a
simple solution to clarify the role of
this office, and I urge my colleagues to
support this straightforward legisla-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
Kentucky (Mr. COMER).
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 128, the Small
Business Advocacy Improvements Act
of 2019.
I am proud, once again, to be the
sponsor of this legislation which passed
the House in a bipartisan manner dur-
ing the 115th Congress. I want to thank
my colleague, Chairwoman VELÁZQUEZ,
for working with me on this bill.
The Office of Advocacy at the United
States Small Business Administration
plays a vital role in ensuring that Fed-
eral agencies adequately consider how
their policies impact America’s small
businesses. While the Office of Advo-
cacy has done excellent work on behalf
of our Nation’s small businesses, the
current law is silent on whether it can
research and advocate on behalf of
small business on international mat-
ters such as trade initiatives and regu-
lations. This is a problem that we can
easily address.
For many small businesses, exporting
and operating overseas is an important
part of their success and allows them
to grow. Given the Office of Advocacy’s
knowledge and research on how domes-
tic regulations impact small busi-
nesses, it is appropriate for the office
to advocate and research small busi-
ness interests on international matters
as well, especially since international
opportunities play a vital role for
many of our Nation’s small businesses.
This bill advances the Office of
Advocacy’s mission to advocate for
America’s small businesses and clari-
fies its authority on international
small business issues. Mr. Speaker, I
urge my colleagues to support this im-
portant bipartisan bill.
b 1730
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
have no further speakers, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
This commonsense legislation pro-
vides the Chief Counsel for Advocacy
the statutory authority to represent
the Nation’s small businesses in the
international realm. This timely legis-
lation will provide the office with
greater latitude to represent America’s
small businesses internationally.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this commonsense legislation,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
There is no question that we need to
support our small businesses across the
country, no matter their location or
industry, when they are attempting to
break into international commerce.
Today’s bill leverages the unique po-
sition and knowledge of the SBA’s Of-
fice of Advocacy to amplify the voice
of small firms in international set-
tings. Today is an important step to
break down international barriers for
small entrepreneurs entering into the
world of trade.
Finally, I thank the gentleman from
Kentucky (Mr. COMER), for his dili-
gence on this matter.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 128 the ‘‘Small Business Ad-
vocacy Improvements Act,’’ which clarifies the
duties of the SBA’s Office of Advocacy.
I support this legislation because, among
other things, it mandates the SBA Office of
Advocacy to examine small business issues in
international economies and authorizes the Of-
fice to represent small businesses interests
before international entities and foreign gov-
ernments dealing with regulatory and trade ini-
tiatives that affect small businesses.
The Small Business Administration’s Office
of Advocacy is an independent voice for small
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:57 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.016 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H275
January 8, 2019
business within the federal government that
advocates on the behalf of this vital sector of
the U.S. economy.
H.R. 128 clarifies and amends the duties of
the Office of Advocacy to better serve the con-
cerns of small businesses before Congress,
the Federal Government and the international
economy.
Small businesses are a critical component
of the United States economy and the 8 mil-
lion minority owned businesses reflect the di-
versity of our economy and our country.
Small businesses make up 44 percent of
the U.S. wages and salaries paid annually to
employees which helps stimulate and drive the
rest of the U.S. economy.
SBA reported in 2018 that 99.9 percent of
businesses within the United States are classi-
fied as Small Businesses, encompassing al-
most 50 percent of all employees with the
United States.
In Texas, 98.6 percent of firms with employ-
ees were small businesses in 2012 and 93
percent of goods exported internationally were
by small businesses.
By including the international economy with-
in the interests of the SBA Office of Advocacy,
small businesses will be able to compete ef-
fectively with international entities and expand
to their full potential.
For these reasons, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 128 and upholding
the importance of small businesses within our
own economy and our presence internation-
ally.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 128.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 32 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. DEUTCH) at 6 o’clock and
30 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 269, by the yeas and nays; and
H.R. 251, by the yeas and nays; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
PANDEMIC AND ALL-HAZARDS
PREPAREDNESS AND ADVANC-
ING INNOVATION ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 269) to reauthorize certain
programs under the Public Health
Service Act and the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to
public health security and all-hazards
preparedness and response, to clarify
the regulatory framework with respect
to certain nonprescription drugs that
are marketed without an approved
drug application, and for other pur-
poses, on which the yeas and nays were
ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PALLONE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 401, nays 17,
not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 13]
YEAS—401
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McMorris
Rodgers
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—17
Amash
Babin
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Gohmert
Gosar
Green (TN)
Higgins (LA)
King (IA)
Massie
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Roy
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Yoho
NOT VOTING—15
Buchanan
Buck
DeFazio
Frankel
Gaetz
Jackson Lee
Jones
Kelly (PA)
Kuster (NH)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 18:01 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H08JA9.REC H08JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H276 January 8, 2019
LaMalfa
Mast
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Titus
Wilson (FL)
b 1859
Messrs. RATCLIFFE, GOSAR,
BABIN, WEBER of Texas, GREEN of
Tennessee, and POSEY changed their
vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. DUNCAN, RICHMOND, and
EMMER changed their vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MOMENT OF SILENCE COMMEMO-
RATING THE EIGHTH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE TUCSON, ARIZONA,
SHOOTING
(Mrs. KIRKPATRICK asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, 8
years ago today, at 10:10 a.m., 19 mem-
bers of the Tucson community were
shot in a despicable act of violence
that shocked the Nation.
They were attending a Congress on
Your Corner event, where Congress-
woman Gabby Giffords was meeting
with her constituents, when they were
gunned down in a senseless tragedy
that killed 6 and wounded 13.
The shooter fired his weapon 33 times
in less than 20 seconds and was at-
tempting to reload his handgun when
the courageous actions of three people
stopped him. Had they not done so,
many others would have been wounded
or killed.
The six people who died were: Chris-
tina-Taylor Green, Dorothy ‘‘Dot’’
Morris, Federal Judge John Roll, Phyl-
lis Schneck, Dorwan Stoddard, and Ga-
briel ‘‘Gabe’’ Zimmerman.
People who were wounded by the
gunmen were: Bill Badger; Congress-
man Ron Barber, who is now my dis-
trict director; Ken Dorushka; James
Fuller; Randy Gardner; Congress-
woman Gabby Giffords; Suzi Hileman;
George Morris; Mary Reed; Pam
Simon; Mavy Stoddard; Jim Tucker;
and Kenneth Veeder.
The members of my community had
never seen such a devastating tragedy
before, and yet they responded with
compassion and kindness toward the
survivors and the families of those who
were murdered. They did not let this
horrific tragedy define who we were.
Three memorials sprang up spontane-
ously: at the site of the shooting, at
Congresswoman Gifford’s office, and at
the university hospital where the most
seriously wounded were taken.
Thanks to the quick actions of mem-
bers of the public and first responders
who rushed to treat the wounded, lives
were saved that morning.
The mental health of everyone in at-
tendance was adversely affected, and
many of the survivors still endure the
physical and mental impact the shoot-
ing had on their lives.
The families of the six people who
were killed grieve the loss of their
loved ones to this day. I am so honored
that our colleague Gabby Giffords is
with us tonight.
Gabby served with great distinction
in this House and, despite her nearly
fatal injuries, has gone on to encourage
and inspire us to take action to reduce
gun violence in our country.
Today, a bipartisan group of our col-
leagues responded to Gabby’s call by
introducing and cosponsoring H.R. 8.
This bill, which I support, will keep
guns out of the hands of people who are
currently prohibited by law from pur-
chasing guns. It will eliminate loop-
holes in the current background check
system.
The bill will not prevent responsible
gun owners from buying guns, but it
will make sure that their gun pur-
chases are made in compliance with
our existing laws.
Mr. Speaker, I look forward to the
debate that we will have regarding
H.R. 8, and hope that we will soon pass
this bill out of our Chamber.
Gun violence in our Nation is a major
public health problem, and it must be
addressed. The American people who
sent us here are waiting for us to step
up and act responsibly on their behalf.
We must do so.
Mr. Speaker, I ask that the House ob-
serve a moment of silence in remem-
brance of those whom we lost.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
House will observe a moment of si-
lence.
f
CHEMICAL FACILITY ANTI-TER-
RORISM STANDARDS PROGRAM
EXTENSION ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 251) to extend by two years
the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism
Standards Program of the Department
of Homeland Security, and for other
purposes, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Mississippi (Mr.
THOMPSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 414, nays 3,
not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 14]
YEAS—414
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McMorris
Rodgers
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
VerDate Sep 11 2014 18:03 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H08JA9.REC H08JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H277
January 8, 2019
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—3
Amash Biggs Massie
NOT VOTING—16
Buchanan
Buck
DeFazio
Frankel
Gaetz
Jackson Lee
Jones
Kelly (PA)
Kuster (NH)
LaMalfa
Mast
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Ryan
Titus
Wilson (FL)
b 1917
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 235, nays
161, answered ‘‘present’’ 2, not voting
35, as follows:
[Roll No. 15]
YEAS—235
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Arrington
Bacon
Banks
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brown (MD)
Budd
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Granger
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Heck
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Matsui
McBath
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McMorris
Rodgers
McNerney
Meeks
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norman
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perry
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Quigley
Raskin
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Wasserman
Schultz
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wild
NAYS—161
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Barr
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brownley (CA)
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Costa
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crow
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Flores
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Horsford
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kilmer
Kind
Krishnamoorthi
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamborn
Latta
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marino
Marshall
Massie
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McHenry
McKinley
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Newhouse
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perlmutter
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Ruiz
Rutherford
Scalise
Schrier
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Stauber
Steube
Stivers
Suozzi
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Waters
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—2
Gohmert Tonko
NOT VOTING—35
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Casten (IL)
Cohen
Cummings
DeFazio
Frankel
Gaetz
Hayes
Holding
Hudson
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jones
Kelly (PA)
Kirkpatrick
Kuster (NH)
LaMalfa
Mast
Meadows
Nunes
O’Halleran
Price (NC)
Rooney (FL)
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Schrader
Sires
Titus
Tlaib
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
b 1928
So the Journal was approved.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
f
b 1930
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 264, FINANCIAL SERVICES
AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019; PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 265, AGRICULTURE, RURAL
DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019; PROVIDING FOR CON-
SIDERATION OF H.R. 266, DE-
PARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR,
ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019; PROVIDING FOR CON-
SIDERATION OF H.R. 267, TRANS-
PORTATION, HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RE-
LATED AGENCIES APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019; AND WAIVING A
REQUIREMENT OF CLAUSE 6(a)
OF RULE XIII WITH RESPECT TO
CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN
RESOLUTIONS REPORTED FROM
THE COMMITTEE ON RULES
Mr. MCGOVERN, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–1) on the
resolution (H. Res. 28) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 264)
making appropriations for financial
services and general government for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 18:04 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H08JA9.REC H08JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H278 January 8, 2019
2019, and for other purposes; providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 265)
making appropriations for Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, and Related Agencies
programs for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 266) making appropria-
tions for the Department of the Inte-
rior, environment, and related agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes; providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 267)
making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of Transportation, and Housing
and Urban Development, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
and waiving a requirement of clause
6(a) of rule XIII with respect to consid-
eration of certain resolutions reported
from the Committee on Rules, which
was referred to the House Calendar and
ordered to be printed.
f
WALL WON’T SOLVE DRUG
PROBLEM
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, the
President’s demand for $5 billion for a
wall won’t stop the drug trade, and
here is why: The drugs will keep flow-
ing in here, due to NAFTA and
CAFTA’s exploding continental trade
resulting from U.S. jobs being shipped
south of our border and the goods they
produce down there being transshipped
back here with an endless flow of
trucks, planes, ships, and railcars. Co-
lombian drug cartels figured this out
when NAFTA came along.
Madam Speaker, I have a story from
last Friday’s Wall Street Journal, enti-
tled: ‘‘ ‘El Chapo’ Jury Told of Cartel’s
Tricks, From Submarines to Laundry
Carts.’’ Two characters among the
most significant drug traffickers ever
extradited to our country are under-
going trial.
They explain how massive amounts
of cocaine and methamphetamines
were ferried from Colombia through
Mexico into major U.S. cities and how
the cartel hired families from the
United States to drive down through El
Paso into Mexico and bring back con-
traband material hidden in compart-
ments in their cars. This is a shot of
Laredo, Texas, just one of hundreds of
portals into our country.
Madam Speaker, the trucks go for
miles from the control point all the
way back. This is how the majority of
contraband material comes into this
country, through those portals of
entry. A wall will not solve the major
reason these materials end up in this
country.
f
2019 LEGISLATIVE AGENDA TOUR
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, yesterday, I hosted
press conferences for a 2019 agenda in
the Midlands, Aiken, and Barnwell
with my wife, Roxanne.
I am grateful for the 2018 successes of
serving as Armed Services Readiness
Subcommittee chairman to rebuild the
military, leading the House delegation
to open the Embassy in Jerusalem, and
tax cuts creating jobs with record-high
middle-class income.
In 2019, I will work to create jobs and
economic growth, support conservative
alternatives, achieve foreign affairs op-
portunities, and promote our military
and veterans. Building on bipartisan
successes, I am confident this year we
can be productive for American fami-
lies.
Congratulations to the Clemson Ti-
gers for their victory for the national
championship. Coach Dabo Swinney
and Quarterback Trevor Lawrence are
an inspiration for the youth of Amer-
ica.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
WE NEED TO OPEN THE
GOVERNMENT
(Mr. KILMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. KILMER. Madam Speaker, yes-
terday, I met with a group of Federal
workers in Tacoma to discuss the im-
pacts of the government shutdown. One
of the folks there was a prison guard.
She told me that, without her pay-
check, she didn’t know if she could pay
for childcare or for the prescriptions
she needs after successfully fighting
cancer just last year.
Because of this shutdown, that is the
conversation that is unfolding across
800,000 kitchen tables as Federal work-
ers try to figure out how to scrape to-
gether mortgage payments and rent
payments, trying to make due without
a paycheck.
This crisis doesn’t just impact Fed-
eral workers. It hurts entire commu-
nities. It hurts the economy around
Olympic National Park, such as hotel
owners and restaurateurs, when people
cancel their visit to the park because
of the shutdown. It affects college stu-
dents, prospective home buyers, and
small business owners who won’t have
access to Federal loans because of this
shutdown.
Madam Speaker, while we can have a
legitimate discussion about immigra-
tion reform, America doesn’t need a
wall. It doesn’t need a 5th century an-
swer to a 21st century challenge. Amer-
ica needs an open government. The
Senate and the President can and
should make this happen right now.
f
EMERGENCY DECLARATION: BUILD
THE WALL
(Mr. PALAZZO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PALAZZO. Madam Speaker, the
American people are sick and tired of
our porous borders and of the inability
of Washington to get things done.
Every day that we fail to secure
these borders, more drug runners,
human traffickers, and violent crimi-
nals enter our communities. It is time
we quit playing politics and give the
American people what they want and
what they voted for.
Although President Trump has cer-
tainly pushed the topic into the spot-
light, the idea of a wall is nothing new.
We have been talking about a wall for
decades. This is not a work in progress.
This is a failure of leadership.
Presidents, Republican and Demo-
cratic alike, have failed to secure our
border. It is time for the President to
take emergency action. And make no
mistake: Our border security abso-
lutely constitutes a national emer-
gency.
Every day, our brave soldiers are
breaking their backs to support our na-
tional security across the globe, yet we
can’t secure our own country here at
home. If you were to ask any of them
what the priority in this Nation is, I
think you would receive resounding
support for a border wall and border se-
curity.
We simply cannot continue to oper-
ate as we have. The time has come for
our President to take decisive action,
and I urge him do everything in his
power to build this wall.
f
HELP SOLVE THE GUN CRISIS
(Ms. BROWNLEY of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend her remarks.)
Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
Madam Speaker, on November 7, 12
lives were stolen from us during the
shooting at the Borderline Bar & Grill
in my district. As our community
began to reckon with this tragedy, I
said: ‘‘Today we mourn. Tomorrow we
work to end the senseless gun violence
ravaging our Nation.’’
But we didn’t even have time to re-
cover from our shock before wildfires
raged through our community. Our
trauma was made unthinkably worse,
but we were also united by these dual
tragedies, united in reflection and
healing.
My community knows that there is
no single solution to ending mass
shootings, but we also know that to do
nothing, to not even try, would be un-
imaginable. We cannot bring back
those lives lost, but we can take sen-
sible action to find solutions that will
make the lives of our constituents bet-
ter and safer.
One very obvious, commonsense solu-
tion that more than 90 percent of this
country supports is universal back-
ground checks. H.R. 8 will not solve all
of the gun violence that is ripping our
Nation apart, but it will help. That is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:55 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.042 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H279
January 8, 2019
what we are here to do. I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 8.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JOHNNY
MURPHY
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to remember the
life of Mr. Johnny Murphy, who passed
away on December 19 at the age of 63.
When Mr. Murphy passed, he was
serving as the mayor pro tem of Rich-
mond Hill in Georgia’s First Congres-
sional District. However, this is far
from the only way that he served his
community. Without his effort and
dedication to the area, Richmond Hill
likely wouldn’t be where it is today.
In 1984, Mr. Murphy started a real es-
tate company called the Richmond Hill
Land Company, when the town was
much smaller and didn’t yet have a red
light. Since then, he started the Rich-
mond Hill-Bryan County Chamber of
Commerce, Richmond Hill Reflections
magazine, and served on the city coun-
cil and as mayor pro tem. Now the city
has grown to have multiple neighbor-
hoods and something for everyone to
do, including one of the largest fes-
tivals in the area, the Richmond Hill
Seafood Festival.
I am proud to have had someone in
our district who can make an impact
like that of Mr. Murphy. His family
will be in my thoughts and prayers
during this difficult time.
f
CONGRATULATING LUIGI
BATTAGLIOLI
(Mr. TONKO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TONKO. Madam Speaker, I rise
to congratulate Luigi Battaglioli, a vi-
sionary senior at Burnt Hills-Ballston
Lake High School, whose app was re-
cently selected as the winner of the
2018 Congressional App Challenge for
New York’s 20th Congressional Dis-
trict.
Luigi’s submission stood out in an
impressive field from students across
our district. His app, CodeGeek.org, is
an online classroom that teaches nov-
ice students how to code through video
lessons, educational texts, and chal-
lenge assignments.
Growing a modern, sustainable, and
competitive economy requires excep-
tional STEM training and education.
Luigi’s commitment to making coding
accessible to anyone on the internet
truly embodies the spirit of the Con-
gressional App Challenge. He has
earned the pride and praise of our en-
tire capital region community. May his
work inspire others to share his pas-
sion in the coming year and beyond.
SUGAR LAND, TEXAS: BEST OF
THE BEST
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, the
world knows no one takes better care
of their friends than Texans. The whole
world knows my hometown of Sugar
Land is the best of the best. The world
saw this in global stories about Hurri-
cane Harvey, but the world misses so
many stories.
There was a Fort Bend Star article
about an eight-alarm fire that de-
stroyed eight apartments weeks before
Christmas. The world needs to know
about Nazila, Isabella, Blanca, Ann,
and Troy. That fire burned all they
owned, except two cellos Ann uses to
teach kids music at Austin High
School. As the world can see, Ann and
her loved ones have a fully furnished
apartment, courtesy of BEL Furniture
in Sugar Land, Texas.
Sugar Land is the best of the best—
the best in America, the best in the
world.
And that is just the way it is.
f
HONORING GEORGIA GOVERNOR
NATHAN DEAL
(Mr. FERGUSON asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. FERGUSON. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor one of Georgia’s
most successful public servants, Gov-
ernor Nathan Deal.
Governor Deal has led our State with
grace and tenacity for the last 8 years,
and his time in office has been marked
by years of success for our State. In
fact, since 2014, Georgia has been
ranked the best State in the Nation to
do business. That distinction is a direct
result of Governor Deal’s leadership,
his focus on economic development, his
investment in statewide workforce de-
velopment initiatives and training pro-
grams, and a shear desire to see our fel-
low Georgians succeed. His commit-
ment has, in fact, led to more and bet-
ter jobs for my fellow Georgians and
produced a workforce that is second to
none in the world.
Governor Deal and his wife, Sandra,
are headed to a much-deserved retire-
ment, some rest, and an awful lot of
fun. We wish them the best. I know all
Georgians offer their gratitude as well.
Governor Deal, thank you for making
Georgia a better place.
f
b 1945
BORDER SECURITY
(Mr. GOHMERT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, in
2007 there was a vote in this body about
whether or not we provide a barrier, a
wall, a fence, and we had Democratic
leaders who voted for it back then,
both here and in the Senate. Seventy-
nine Senators voted for it back then.
The problem is not better on our bor-
der, and, in fact, the drugs coming
across are worse. There was enough
fentanyl coming across in the past year
to kill every American adult. The prob-
lem is worse.
Folks here were for a wall, a barrier.
It seems the only difference is now
there is a President that some in here
absolutely despise.
f
BORDER SECURITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. STE-
VENS). Under the Speaker’s announced
policy of January 3, 2019, the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
MEUSER) is recognized for 60 minutes as
the designee of the minority leader.
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is
with a great sense of honor, respect,
and patriotism I make my first address
on this floor.
This government shutdown needs to
be resolved. The people know it is up to
this Congress to do it and to do so in
short order.
Despite the high level of political
morass we must wade through in these
first days of the 116th Congress, I con-
tinue to believe that this Congress can
do things better and actually work to-
gether to get things done for the Amer-
ican people.
The need exists to advance and im-
prove our border security, as well as
correct aspects of our illegal immigra-
tion laws.
The problem-solving, however, starts
with securing our borders. Our borders
are a serious problem. We all know
this. The data is indisputable by any-
one who seriously reviews the informa-
tion.
We have hundreds of thousands en-
tering our country illegally every year,
and our Border Patrol agents cannot
manage the situation with the re-
sources and tools Congress has appro-
priated.
There is a cost and a plan to make
our borders properly secure. Congress
has the responsibility to provide the
right level of funding so border secu-
rity staff can, in fact, do their job and
so our country has lawful immigration.
The experts at Homeland Security
say this cost is $5.7 billion. There are
many in this Congress who will not
vote for this, but less than 7 years ago,
these same Members voted for border
security funding which did, in fact, in-
clude a physical barrier.
Politics has no place in this serious
matter. The border agents, including
Chris Cabrera of the National Border
Patrol Council, emphasizes that a wall,
or a barrier, is an essential tool. We
here in Congress must provide the
means so Border Patrol can do their
job.
I, myself, do believe in a policy of
high fences and wide legal gates, but
before we can talk about legal gates
and deal with the issues such as DACA
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:44 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.043 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H280 January 8, 2019
and extended work visas for agricul-
tural workers, we must secure the bor-
der.
The people want us to work together
for our country, not for ourselves or
our political parties. Let’s not con-
tinue to let the people down. Let’s
show that this Congress can do things
better.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. DEFAZIO (at the request of Ms.
PELOSI) for today and January 9 until 6
p.m. on account of medical procedure.
Mr. MAST (at the request of Mr.
MCCARTHY) for today through January
17 on account of the birth of his child.
f
PUBLICATION OF BUDGETARY
MATERIAL
Mr. YARMUTH. Madam Speaker,
pursuant to section 103(c) of the H. Res.
6, adopted rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives for the One-Hundred Six-
teenth Congress, I hereby submit for
printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
the lists of discretionary accounts
identified for advance appropriations
in Fiscal Year 2019 appropriation bills.
ACCOUNTS IDENTIFIED FOR ADVANCE
APPROPRIATIONS
FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education:
Employment and Training Administration.
Education for the Disadvantaged.
School Improvement Programs.
Career, Technical, and Adult Education.
Special Education.
Transportation, Housing and Urban Devel-
opment:
Tenant-based Rental Assistance.
Project-based Rental Assistance.
FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021
Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education:
Corporation for Public Broadcasting
VETERANS ACCOUNTS IDENTIFIED FOR
ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS
Military Construction, Veterans Affairs:
Veterans Medical Services.
Veterans Medical Support and Compliance.
Veterans Medical Facilities.
Veterans Medical Community Care.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 7 o’clock and 50 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Wednesday, January 9, 2019, at 10 a.m.
for morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
12. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Legislation, Regulation and En-
ergy Efficiency, Department of Energy,
transmitting the Department’s Major final
rule — Nuclear Classification and Declas-
sification [AU60-2016-1045] (RIN: 1992-AA49)
received January 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
13. A letter from the Director, Office of
Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
interim staff guidance — Digital Instrumen-
tation and Controls Licensing Process
[DI&C-ISG-06, Revision 2] received January
7, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Pub-
lic Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
14. A communication from the President of
the United States, transmitting a notifica-
tion of a deployment of United States Armed
Forces personnel to Libreville, Gabon, to be
in position to support the security of United
States citizens, personnel, and diplomatic fa-
cilities in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of
the Congo, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1543(a); Pub-
lic Law 93-148, Sec. 4(a); (87 Stat. 555) (H.
Doc. No. 116—5); to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs and ordered to be printed.
15. A letter from the Chief Administrative
Officer, transmitting the quarterly report of
receipts and expenditures of appropriations
and other funds for the period October 1,
2018, to December 31, 2018, pursuant to 2
U.S.C. 104a (H. Doc. No. 116—6); to the Com-
mittee on House Administration and ordered
to be printed.
16. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Legislation, Regulation and En-
ergy Efficiency, Office of the General Coun-
sel, Department of Energy, transmitting the
Department’s final rule — Inflation Adjust-
ment of Civil Monetary Penalties received
January 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. MCGOVERN: Committee on Rules. H.
Res. 28. A resolution providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 264) making appropria-
tions for financial services and general gov-
ernment for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes; pro-
viding for consideration of the bill (H.R. 265)
making appropriations for Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, and Related Agencies programs for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and
for other purposes; providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 266) making appropria-
tions for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the fis-
cal year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes; providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 267) making appropriations
for the Department of Transportation, and
Housing and Urban Development, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes; and
waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) of rule
XIII with respect to consideration of certain
resolutions reported from the Committee on
Rules. (Rept. 116–1). Referred to the House
Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for
himself, Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
NADLER, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Mr. MAST, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Mr. UPTON, Mrs. MCBATH, and
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey):
H.R. 8. A bill to require a background
check for every firearm sale; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 264. A bill making appropriations for
financial services and general government
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Appropriations.
By Mr. BISHOP of Georgia:
H.R. 265. A bill making appropriations for
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and
Drug Administration, and Related Agencies
programs for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Appropriations.
By Ms. MCCOLLUM:
H.R. 266. A bill making appropriations for
the Department of the Interior, environ-
ment, and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Appropriations.
By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
H.R. 267. A bill making appropriations for
the Department of Transportation, and
Housing and Urban Development, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Appropriations.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.R. 268. A bill making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Appropriations, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on the Budget, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. ESHOO (for herself, Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
LATTA, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. GUTHRIE,
Mr. PALLONE, and Mr. WALDEN):
H.R. 269. A bill to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under the Public Health Service Act
and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act with respect to public health security
and all-hazards preparedness and response,
to clarify the regulatory framework with re-
spect to certain nonprescription drugs that
are marketed without an approved drug ap-
plication, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committees on Homeland Se-
curity, Veterans’ Affairs, and the Judiciary,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned. con-
sidered and passed.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. COOPER,
Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
CUELLAR, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. CASTEN of
Illinois, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
LIPINSKI, and Mr. ALLRED):
H.R. 270. A bill to direct the Congressional
Budget Office to submit daily reports during
the period in which a Government shutdown
is in effect on the effects of the shutdown on
the economy and the costs of the shutdown
to taxpayers, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama (for him-
self and Mr. POSEY):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:44 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K08JA7.045 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H281
January 8, 2019
H.R. 271. A bill making appropriations for
Federal employees working during the Gov-
ernment shutdown beginning on or about De-
cember 22, 2018, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Appropriations.
By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr.
PETERSON, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. ESTES,
and Mr. GIBBS):
H.R. 272. A bill to prevent States and local
jurisdictions from interfering with the pro-
duction and distribution of agricultural
products in interstate or foreign commerce,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Agriculture, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. ESHOO (for herself and Mr.
PASCRELL):
H.R. 273. A bill to improve presidential and
vice presidential tax transparency, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means, and in addition to the Committee
on House Administration, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Mrs. LESKO, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. STANTON, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, and Mr. GALLEGO):
H.R. 274. A bill to authorize, direct, expe-
dite, and facilitate a land exchange in
Yavapai County, Arizona, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself, Mr. ROO-
NEY of Florida, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
DELAURO, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. LIPIN-
SKI, Mr. LYNCH, Mr. SHERMAN, and
Mr. COHEN):
H.R. 275. A bill to amend part D of title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to require
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
to negotiate covered part D drug prices on
behalf of Medicare beneficiaries; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. TITUS (for herself, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. MCNERNEY, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. THOMPSON of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr.
SCHIFF, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
YARMUTH, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, and Mr.
CARBAJAL):
H.R. 276. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish the Recognizing In-
spiring School Employees (RISE) Award Pro-
gram recognizing excellence exhibited by
classified school employees providing serv-
ices to students in prekindergarten through
high school; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself and
Mr. CHABOT):
H.R. 277. A bill to adjust collateral require-
ments under the Small Business Act for dis-
aster loans, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Small Business.
By Mr. NEWHOUSE:
H.R. 278. A bill to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to convey certain facilities,
easements, and rights-of-way to the
Kennewick Irrigation District, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. LEE
of California, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Ms. HILL of California, Mr. TAKANO,
Mr. LEVIN of California, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
ROUDA, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Mr. CORREA,
Ms. ESHOO, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. RUIZ, Mr. BERA, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mr. PETERS, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Ms. PORTER, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, and Ms.
BASS):
H.R. 279. A bill to permanently prohibit oil
and gas leasing off the coast of the State of
California, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 280. A bill to provide for systemic re-
search, treatment, prevention, awareness,
and dissemination of information with re-
spect to sports-related and other concus-
sions; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. MEEKS,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. CLAY, and Ms.
JAYAPAL):
H.R. 281. A bill to amend the Federal Re-
serve Act to require Federal Reserve banks
to interview at least one individual reflec-
tive of gender diversity and one individual
reflective of racial or ethnic diversity when
appointing Federal Reserve bank presidents,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. MCCOLLUM, and Mrs.
HAYES):
H.R. 282. A bill to improve public safety
through sensible reforms to firearms regula-
tions; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BISHOP of Georgia (for himself,
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, and Mr.
LOUDERMILK):
H.R. 283. A bill to adjust the boundaries of
the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical
Park, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 284. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make permanent the de-
duction for mortgage insurance premiums;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 285. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make permanent the ex-
clusion from gross income of discharge of
qualified principal residence indebtedness; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself,
Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr. CRIST,
and Mr. BUCHANAN):
H.R. 286. A bill to amend the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf Lands Act to prohibit oil and
gas preleasing, leasing, and related activities
in certain areas of the Outer Continental
Shelf off the coast of Florida, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr. COURT-
NEY, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. GOLDEN, Mrs.
HAYES, Mr. HIMES, Mr. KEATING, Mr.
KENNEDY, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Mr. LYNCH, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. NEAL, Mr.
PAPPAS, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mrs. TRAHAN, and Mr. WELCH):
H.R. 287. A bill to prohibit oil and gas leas-
ing on the outer Continental Shelf off the
coast of New England; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. COLE:
H.R. 288. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to convey certain land and ap-
purtenances of the Arbuckle Project, Okla-
homa, to the Arbuckle Master Conservancy
District, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. COLE:
H.R. 289. A bill to establish the Commis-
sion on Long Term Social Security Solvency,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Rules, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. COLE:
H.R. 290. A bill to reduce Federal spending
and the deficit by terminating taxpayer fi-
nancing of presidential election campaigns;
to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in
addition to the Committee on House Admin-
istration, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM (for himself and
Mr. ROONEY of Florida):
H.R. 291. A bill to amend the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf Lands Act to place a ten-year
moratorium on oil and gas preleasing, leas-
ing, and related activities on the Outer Con-
tinental Shelf in the North Atlantic, Mid-At-
lantic, South Atlantic, and Straits of Florida
planning areas and in the Eastern Gulf of
Mexico; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CURTIS:
H.R. 292. A bill to allow certain State and
tribal permitting authority to encourage ex-
pansion of broadband service to rural and
tribal communities, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Natural Resources, and
in addition to the Committee on Agriculture,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 293. A bill to prevent and reduce the
use of tobacco products, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means,
and in addition to the Committees on the Ju-
diciary, and Energy and Commerce, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. ESHOO (for herself, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. MOULTON, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. LUJÁN, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, and Mr. CARSON
of Indiana):
H.R. 294. A bill to treat the Tuesday next
after the first Monday in November in the
same manner as any legal public holiday for
purposes of Federal employment, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Mr.
KEATING, Mr. MCCAUL, and Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:55 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L08JA7.100 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H282 January 8, 2019
H.R. 295. A bill to increase the role of the
financial industry in combating human traf-
ficking; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, and in addition to the Committee on
Financial Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina (for
herself, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. SCALISE,
Ms. CHENEY, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. JONES,
Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of
Tennessee, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. AMASH,
Mr. BIGGS, Mr. POSEY, Mr. LAMBORN,
Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr. SMITH of
Missouri, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. HIGGINS
of Louisiana, Mr. YOHO, Mr. GOSAR,
Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr.
LONG, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. RATCLIFFE,
Mr. GIBBS, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
COMER, Mr. BRADY, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
MULLIN, Mr. LATTA, Mr. JORDAN, Mr.
KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. ESTES, Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr. WALKER,
Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr.
HUNTER, Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr. FORTEN-
BERRY, Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. MARCHANT,
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
CONAWAY, Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr. BANKS,
Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr.
FLORES, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. WESTERMAN,
Mr. OLSON, Mr. CLOUD, Mr. EMMER,
and Mr. BABIN):
H.R. 296. A bill to amend title X of the
Public Health Service Act to prohibit family
planning grants from being awarded to any
entity that performs abortions, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 297. A bill to extend the Federal rec-
ognition to the Little Shell Tribe of Chip-
pewa Indians of Montana, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 298. A bill to reduce a portion of the
annual pay of Members of Congress for the
failure to adopt a concurrent resolution on
the budget which does not provide for a bal-
anced budget, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on House Administration, and in
addition to the Committees on Oversight and
Reform, and Rules, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Mr.
COURTNEY, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
NEAL, Mr. PETERS, Mrs. DAVIS of
California, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. GABBARD, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
MENG, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. LANGEVIN,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. MASSIE, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. BEYER, Mr. KATKO, Mrs.
MURPHY, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. KIL-
DEE, Mr. RYAN, Mr. SABLAN, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. SIRES, Mr. PALLONE,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. POCAN, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. CORREA, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. RUSH, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. CICILLINE,
Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Mr. COHEN, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mr. WELCH, Mr. BOST, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Mr. LYNCH, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. LAMB,
Mr. BARR, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. COOK,
and Mr. PALAZZO):
H.R. 299. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify presumptions relating
to the exposure of certain veterans who
served in the vicinity of the Republic of
Vietnam, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina (for
herself and Mr. CUELLAR):
H.R. 300. A bill to provide for additional
safeguards with respect to imposing Federal
mandates, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform, and in
addition to the Committees on the Budget,
Rules, and the Judiciary, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GIBBS (for himself, Mr. STIV-
ERS, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
TIPTON, Mr. GRIFFITH, and Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana):
H.R. 301. A bill making appropriations for
Federal employees working during the Gov-
ernment shutdown beginning on or about De-
cember 22, 2018, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Appropriations.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico (for herself, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
DUFFY, and Mr. FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 302. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide equitable treat-
ment for residents of Puerto Rico with re-
spect to the refundable portion of the child
tax credit and to provide the same treatment
to families in Puerto Rico with one child or
two children that is currently provided to is-
land families with three or more children; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Ms.
GABBARD):
H.R. 303. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to permit additional retired
members of the Armed Forces who have a
service-connected disability to receive both
disability compensation from the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs for their disability
and either retired pay by reason of their
years of military service or combat-related
special compensation; to the Committee on
Armed Services, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Mrs. LESKO, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. STANTON, Mr.
BIGGS, and Mr. GALLEGO):
H.R. 304. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to convey certain land to La
Paz County, Arizona, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. HICE of Georgia (for himself,
Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr.
JONES, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. LATTA,
Mr. LONG, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. MOONEY
of West Virginia, Mr. NORMAN, Mr.
OLSON, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. ALLEN, and
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia):
H.R. 305. A bill to provide that human life
shall be deemed to begin with fertilization;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. HICE of Georgia:
H.R. 306. A bill to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to conduct a special resource
study of the site of the Kettle Creek Battle-
field in Wilkes County, Georgia, and adja-
cent property, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. HICE of Georgia (for himself,
Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia,
Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Mr. COLE, Mr. COOK, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. HUNTER,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. KIND, Ms. LOFGREN,
Mr. LONG, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
SIRES, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
WITTMAN, Mr. KATKO, and Mr. COL-
LINS of New York):
H.R. 307. A bill to provide for partnerships
among State and local governments, re-
gional entities, and the private sector to pre-
serve, conserve, and enhance the visitor ex-
perience at nationally significant battle-
fields of the American Revolution, War of
1812, and Civil War, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. HICE of Georgia:
H.R. 308. A bill to redesignate Gravelly
Point Park, located along the George Wash-
ington Memorial Parkway in Arlington
County, Virginia, as the Nancy Reagan Me-
morial Park, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr.
KEATING, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. TONKO, Mr. WELCH, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. MCEACHIN, and Ms.
BONAMICI):
H.R. 309. A bill to prohibit drilling in the
Arctic Ocean; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. TAKANO,
Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. SCHRA-
DER, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr.
KILMER, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. ESHOO, and Ms.
BONAMICI):
H.R. 310. A bill to amend the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf Lands Act to permanently pro-
hibit the conduct of offshore drilling on the
outer Continental Shelf off the coast of Cali-
fornia, Oregon, and Washington; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. JONES:
H.R. 311. A bill to redesignate the Depart-
ment of the Navy as the Department of the
Navy and Marine Corps; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. KEATING (for himself, Mr.
KENNEDY, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, and Mr. COLE):
H.R. 312. A bill to reaffirm the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe reservation, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. KEATING:
H.R. 313. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to carry out a land exchange
involving lands within the boundaries of the
Cape Cod National Seashore, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Mr. BOST, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS
of Illinois, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
SHIMKUS, Mr. RUSH, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. FOSTER, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, and
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:55 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L08JA7.100 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H283
January 8, 2019
H.R. 314. A bill to include Livingston Coun-
ty, the city of Jonesboro in Union County,
and the city of Freeport in Stephenson Coun-
ty, Illinois, to the Lincoln National Heritage
Area, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. LAHOOD:
H.R. 315. A bill to amend the Surface Min-
ing Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to
authorize partnerships between States and
nongovernmental entities for the purpose of
reclaiming and restoring land and water re-
sources adversely affected by coal mining ac-
tivities before August 3, 1977, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. LAMALFA (for himself, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, and Mr. SIMPSON):
H.R. 316. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior and the Secretary of Agri-
culture to issue permits for recreation serv-
ices on lands managed by Federal agencies,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources, and in addition to the
Committee on Agriculture, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. LAMALFA (for himself and Mr.
CARBAJAL):
H.R. 317. A bill to reaffirm the action of
the Secretary of the Interior to take land
into trust for the benefit of the Santa Ynez
Band of Chumash Mission Indians, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. LAMBORN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN of Maryland):
H.R. 318. A bill to reauthorize the National
Geologic Mapping Act of 1992; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr.
COURTNEY, and Mr. CICILLINE):
H.R. 319. A bill to amend the Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers Act to designate certain river seg-
ments within the Wood-Pawcatuck water-
shed as components of the National Wild and
Scenic Rivers System, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 320. A bill to expand and enhance ex-
isting adult day programs for younger people
with neurological diseases or conditions
(such as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s dis-
ease, traumatic brain injury, or other simi-
lar diseases or conditions) to support and im-
prove access to respite services for family
caregivers who are taking care of such peo-
ple, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 321. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to create a National
Neuromyelitis Optica Consortium to provide
grants and coordinate research with respect
to the causes of, and risk factors associated
with, neuromyelitis optica, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself
and Mr. GARAMENDI):
H.R. 322. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide the work oppor-
tunity tax credit with respect to the hiring
of veterans in the field of renewable energy;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Ms.
WILSON of Florida):
H.R. 323. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a tax credit for
expenses for household and elder care serv-
ices necessary for gainful employment; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 324. A bill to prohibit monetary pay-
ments by the Federal Government to em-
ployees, officers, and elected officials of for-
eign countries for purposes of bribery, coer-
cion, or any activity that is illegal or under-
mines the rule of law or corrupts a public of-
ficer or the office such officer represents,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Intelligence (Permanent Select), and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Mr. CONNOLLY, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Ms. NORTON, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. POCAN, Mrs. RADEWAGEN,
Mr. SOTO, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
LOEBSACK, and Mr. HASTINGS):
H.R. 325. A bill to provide for the issuance
of the Peace Corps Semipostal Stamp; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform, and in
addition to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Mr. LANGEVIN, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
SOTO, and Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 326. A bill to direct the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, and the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to provide assistance for individuals af-
fected by exposure to Agent Orange, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Energy and Commerce, and For-
eign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 327. A bill to prohibit entities from re-
quiring individuals to submit to arbitration
for disputes arising from a security breach,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself and Mr. YOHO):
H.R. 328. A bill to require the Secretary of
State to design and establish a Vulnerability
Disclosure Process (VDP) to improve Depart-
ment of State cybersecurity and a bug boun-
ty program to identify and report
vulnerabilities of internet-facing informa-
tion technology of the Department of State,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 329. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to provide a criminal penalty
for certain Federal officers and employees
using their public office for private gain, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. DELAURO, and Ms. NOR-
TON):
H.R. 330. A bill to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and protect the climate; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 331. A bill to direct the Federal Trade
Commission to review and potentially revise
its standards for safeguarding customer in-
formation to ensure that such standards re-
quire certain consumer reporting agencies
and service providers of such agencies to
maintain sufficient safeguards against cyber
attacks and related threats, to provide for
additional authority to enforce such stand-
ards with respect to such agencies and pro-
viders, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself and Mr. MCGOVERN):
H.R. 332. A bill to modify the expedited
procedures in the House of Representatives
under section 36 of the Arms Export Control
Act with respect to consideration of joint
resolutions prohibiting proposed sales of de-
fense articles or services, prohibiting pro-
posed licenses for exports of defense articles
or services, and prohibiting approval of
United States commercial technical assist-
ance or manufacturing licensing agreements;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in
addition to the Committee on Rules, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BISHOP of Georgia:
H.R. 333. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to permit retired members of
the Armed Forces who have a service-con-
nected disability rated less than 50 percent
to receive concurrent payment of both re-
tired pay and veterans’ disability compensa-
tion, to extend eligibility for concurrent re-
ceipt to chapter 61 disability retirees with
less than 20 years of service, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, and in addition to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, and Mrs.
TORRES of California):
H.R. 334. A bill to increase cybersecurity
education and job growth, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Ways and Means, Education and
Labor, and Oversight and Reform, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MAST:
H.R. 335. A bill to require the Inter-Agency
Task Force on Harmful Algal Blooms and
Hypoxia to develop a plan for reducing, miti-
gating, and controlling harmful algal blooms
and hypoxia in South Florida, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology, and in addition to
the Committee on Natural Resources, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCCAUL (for himself, Mr.
MCHENRY, and Mr. HURD of Texas):
H.R. 336. A bill to make improvements to
certain defense and security assistance pro-
visions and to authorize theappropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of
the Syrian people, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in ad-
dition to the Committees on the Judiciary,
Financial Services, Science, Space, and
Technology, and Armed Services, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:55 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L08JA7.100 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H284 January 8, 2019
By Mr. MCEACHIN (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, and Mr. BEYER):
H.R. 337. A bill to amend the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf Lands Act to withdraw the
outer Continental Shelf in the Mid-Atlantic
planning area from disposition, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 338. A bill to allow Federal employees
excepted from furlough during the lapse in
appropriations beginning on or around De-
cember 22, 2018, to make withdrawals from
their Thrift Savings Plan accounts, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. NORTON (for herself, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. BEYER, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms.
WEXTON, Mr. TRONE, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. POCAN, Ms. MOORE, Mrs. TRAHAN,
Ms. MENG, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mrs.
TORRES of California, and Ms. OMAR):
H.R. 339. A bill to provide for the com-
pensation of Federal contractor employees
that may be placed on unpaid leave as a re-
sult of the Federal Government shutdown,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. NUNES:
H.R. 340. A bill to authorize the convey-
ance of and remove the reversionary interest
of the United States in certain lands in the
City of Tulare, California; to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr.
NORCROSS, Mr. SIRES, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. PASCRELL, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia,
Mrs. LURIA, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. KIM, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. ADAMS,
Mr. THOMPSON of California, Ms.
SHERRILL, Mr. KEATING, Mr. ROONEY
of Florida, Mr. COHEN, Mr. SMITH of
New Jersey, Ms. OMAR, and Mr.
BEYER):
H.R. 341. A bill to amend the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf Lands Act to permanently pro-
hibit the conduct of offshore drilling on the
outer Continental Shelf in the Mid-Atlantic,
South Atlantic, North Atlantic, Straits of
Florida, and Eastern Gulf of Mexico planning
areas; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 342. A bill to improve mapping under
the National Flood Insurance Program, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
By Mr. RATCLIFFE:
H.R. 343. A bill to require the Secretary of
Agriculture to transfer certain National For-
est System land in the State of Texas; to the
Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama (for him-
self and Mr. LOEBSACK):
H.R. 344. A bill to require the Secretary of
Defense to develop and implement a plan to
provide chiropractic health care services for
certain covered beneficiaries as part of the
TRICARE program; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 345. A bill to support programs for
mosquito-borne and other vector-borne dis-
ease surveillance and control; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. THORNBERRY (for himself,
Mr. COLE, Mr. CARTER of Texas, Mr.
BRADY, and Mr. CONAWAY):
H.R. 346. A bill to survey the gradient
boundary along the Red River in the States
of Oklahoma and Texas, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. TIPTON (for himself and Ms.
DEGETTE):
H.R. 347. A bill to extend the authorization
of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Con-
trol Act of 1978 relating to the disposal site
in Mesa County, Colorado; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 348. A bill to designate certain moun-
tain peaks in the State of Colorado as
‘‘Fowler Peak’’ and ‘‘Boskoff Peak’’; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. TITUS:
H.R. 349. A bill to designate a peak in the
State of Nevada as Maude Frazier Mountain,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 350. A bill making continuing appro-
priations for the Coast Guard; to the Com-
mittee on Appropriations.
By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. JONES,
and Mr. DUNN):
H.R. 351. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Defense to carry out a pilot program to lend
Department of Defense farm equipment to
eligible farmers, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. WEBER
of Texas, Mr. BABIN, Mr. DESJARLAIS,
and Mr. GIBBS):
H.R. 352. A bill to remove penalties for
health insurers under the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act and Health Care and
Education Reconciliation Act of 2010; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr.
MCCAUL, and Mr. ENGEL):
H.R. 353. A bill to direct the Secretary of
State to develop a strategy to regain ob-
server status for Taiwan in the World Health
Organization, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 354. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to provide agency heads with
additional authority to discipline Federal
employees, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 355. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to extend the basis for the de-
nial of retirement credit, for service as a
Member of Congress, to include conviction of
any felony under Federal or State law, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
House Administration, and in addition to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Mr. HIG-
GINS of Louisiana, Mr. KING of Iowa,
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
RICE of South Carolina, Mr. GUTHRIE,
Mr. OLSON, Mr. BACON, Mr. GRIFFITH,
Mr. TURNER, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. CON-
AWAY, Mr. FLORES, Mr. CALVERT, Mr.
LATTA, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. PALAZZO,
Mr. EMMER, Mr. COMER, Mr. ALLEN,
Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr.
SMUCKER, and Mr. KUSTOFF of Ten-
nessee):
H.J. Res. 22. A joint resolution proposing a
balanced budget amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H. Con. Res. 3. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that the
United States should provide, on an annual
basis, an amount equal to at least one per-
cent of United States gross domestic product
for nonmilitary foreign assistance programs;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H. Res. 26. A resolution electing Members
to a certain standing committee of the
House of Representatives; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania (for himself, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
and Ms. BONAMICI):
H. Res. 27. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House that more should be done
to instill Holocaust education in school cur-
ricula around the country; to the Committee
on Education and Labor.
By Mr. COLE:
H. Res. 29. A resolution honoring the 150th
anniversary of Fort Sill in Lawton, Okla-
homa; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself and Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois):
H. Res. 30. A resolution requiring each
Member, officer, and employee of the House
of Representatives to complete a program of
training in workplace rights and responsibil-
ities each session of each Congress, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on House
Administration.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
1. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the Senate of the State of Ohio, relative to
Senate Concurrent Resolution Number 21,
urging the Congress of the United States to
enact bills advancing the development of an
Appalachian storage hub; which was referred
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 8.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 264.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of ar-
ticle I of the Constitution of the United
States (the appropriation power), which
states:
‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law . . . .’’
In addition, clause 1 of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution (the spending power)
provides:
‘‘The Congress shall have the Power . . . to
pay the Debts and provide for the common
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:44 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L08JA7.100 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H285
January 8, 2019
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States . . .’’
Together, these specific constitutional pro-
visions establish the congressional power of
the purse, granting Congress the authority
to appropriate funds, to determine their pur-
pose, amount, and period of availability, and
to set forth terms and conditions governing
their use.
By Mr. BISHOP of Georgia:
H.R. 265.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of ar-
ticle I of the Constitution of the United
States (the appropriation power), which
states:
‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law . . . .’’
In addition, clause 1 of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution (the spending power)
provides:
‘‘The Congress shall have the Power . . . to
pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States . . .’’
Together, these specific constitutional pro-
visions establish the congressional power of
the purse, granting Congress the authority
to appropriate funds, to determine their pur-
pose, amount, and period of availability, and
to set forth terms and conditions governing
their use.
By Ms. MCCOLLUM:
H.R. 266.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of ar-
ticle I of the Constitution of the United
States (the appropriation power), which
states:
‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law . . . .’’
In addition, clause 1 of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution (the spending power)
provides:
‘‘The Congress shall have the Power . . . to
pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States . . .’’
Together, these specific constitutional pro-
visions establish the congressional power of
the purse, granting Congress the authority
to appropriate funds, to determine their pur-
pose, amount, and period of availability, and
to set forth terms and conditions governing
their use.
By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
H.R. 267.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of ar-
ticle I of the Constitution of the United
States (the appropriation power), which
states:
‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law . . . .’’
In addition, clause 1 of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution (the spending power)
provides:
‘‘The Congress shall have the Power . . . to
pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States . . .’’
Together, these specific constitutional pro-
visions establish the congressional power of
the purse, granting Congress the authority
to appropriate funds, to determine their pur-
pose, amount, and period of availability, and
to set forth terms and conditions governing
their use.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.R. 268.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of ar-
ticle I of the Constitution of the United
States (the appropriation power), which
states:
‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law . . . .’’
In addition, clause 1 of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution (the spending power)
provides:
‘‘The Congress shall have the Power . . . to
pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States . . .’’
Together, these specific constitutional pro-
visions establish the congressional power of
the purse, granting Congress the authority
to appropriate funds, to determine their pur-
pose, amount, and period of availability, and
to set forth terms and conditions governing
their use.
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 269.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 270.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. BROOKS of Alabama:
H.R. 271.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.R. 272.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to Congress’
powers to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, and among the several states, and
with the Indian Tribes under Article I, Sec-
tion 8, Clause 3 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 273.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 4, clause 1 of the Con-
stitution.
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 274.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 (the Prop-
erty Clause). Under this clause, Congress has
the power to dispose of and make all needful
rules and regulations respecting the terri-
tory or other property belonging to the
United States. By virtue of this enumerated
power, Congress has governing authority
over the lands, territories, or other property
of the United States—and with this author-
ity Congress is vested with the power to all
owners in fee, the ability to sell, lease, dis-
pose, exchange, convey, or simply preserve
land. The Supreme Court has described this
enumerated grant as one ‘‘without limita-
tion’’ Kleppe v New Mexico, 426 U.S. 529, 542–
543 (1976) (‘‘And while the furthest reaches of
the power granted by the Property Clause
have not been definitely resolved, we have
repeatedly observed that the power over the
public land thus entrusted to Congress is
without limitation.’’) The exchange codified
by this legislation is thus constitutional.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 275.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Ms. TITUS:
H.R. 276.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 277.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
‘‘The Congress shall have Power to . . .
provide for the . . . general Welfare of the
United States; . . .’’
By Mr. NEWHOUSE:
H.R. 278.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 4, Section 3: The Congress shall
have Power to dispose of and make all need-
ful Rules and Regulations respecting the
Territory or other Property belonging to the
United States; and nothing in this Constitu-
tion shall be so construed as to Prejudice
any Claims of the United States, or of any
particular State.
By Mr. CARBAJAL:
H.R. 279.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 280.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution.
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 281.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 282.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. BISHOP of Georgia:
H.R. 283.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3—Congress
shall have power ‘‘To regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes.’’
Article IV, Section 3—‘‘The Congress shall
have Power to dispose of and make all need-
ful Rules and Regulations respecting the
Territory or other Property belonging to the
United States . . . .’’
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 284.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Amendment XVI
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 285.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Amendment XVI
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida:
H.R. 286.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 287.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. COLE:
H.R. 288.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:44 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.025 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H286 January 8, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article IV, Sec-
tion 3, Clause 2 which grants Congress the
power to make all needful Rules and Regula-
tions respecting . . . Property belonging to
the United States.
By Mr. COLE:
H.R. 289.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. COLE:
H.R. 290.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM:
H.R. 291.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘This bill is enacted pursuant to Section 8
of Article I of the United States Constitu-
tion.’’
By Mr. CURTIS:
H.R. 292.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8 of the U.S. Constitution
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 293.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article I Section 8
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 294.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section IV, clause 1 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
H.R. 295.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, clause 1; and Article I,
section 8, clause 3
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina:
H.R. 296.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 1 of the United States Constitution;
whereby the Congress shall have Power to
lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts, and
Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the
common Defence and general Welfare of the
United States; but all Duties, Imposts and
Excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States. Furthermore, this bill makes
specific changes to existing law, in accord-
ance with the Fourteenth Amendment, Sec-
tion 5, which states that ‘‘No State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of
the United States; nor shall any State de-
prive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law; nor deny to any
person within its jurisdicition the equal pro-
tection of the laws
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 297.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3.
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 298.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 7, Clause 9.
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 299.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 18 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution.
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina:
H.R. 300.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The authority to enact this bill is derived
from, but may not be limited to, Article I,
Section 8, Clause 3 of the United States Con-
stitution, and Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. GIBBS:
H.R. 301.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 7 section 9 of article
1 of the Constitution of the United States
which states: ‘‘No Money shall be drawn
from the Treasury, but in Consequence of
Appropriations made by Law; and a regular
Statement and Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of all public Money shall be
published from time to time.’’, ,
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 302.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress has the power to enact this
legislation pursuant to Article I, Section 8,
Clauses 1 and 18 of the U.S. Constitution,
which provide as follows: The Congress shall
have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and
provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States; [and . . . ]
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
H.R. 303.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to Article I,
Section 8, Clause 1 of the Constitution of the
United States and Article I, Section 8,
Clause 7 of the Constitution of the United
States.
Article I, section 8 of the United State
Constitution, which grants Congress the
power to raise and support an Army; to pro-
vide and maintain a Navy; to make rules for
the government and regulation of the land
and naval forces; and provide for organizing,
arming, and disciplining the militia.
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 304.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 (the Prop-
erty Clause). Under this clause, Congress has
the power to dispose of and make all needful
rules and regulations respecting the terri-
tory or other property belonging to the
United States. By virtue of this enumerated
power, Congress has governing authority
over the lands, territories, or other property
of the United States- and with this authority
Congress is vested with the power to all own-
ers in fee, the ability to sell, lease, dispose,
exchange, convey, or simply preserve land.
The Supreme Court has described this enu-
merated grant as one ‘‘without limitation’’
Kleppe v New Mexico, 426 U.S. 529, 542–543
(1976) (‘‘And while the furthest reaches of the
power granted by the Property Clause have
not been definitely resolved, we have repeat-
edly observed that the power over the public
land thus entrusted to Congress is without
limitation.’’) The exchange codified by this
legislation is thus constitutional.
By Mr. HICE of Georgia:
H.R. 305.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 that states
that Congress shall have the Power ‘‘To
make all Laws which shall be necessary for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States or in any Department or Officer
thereof.’’
Additionally, Section 1 of the XIV Amend-
ment states,’’. . . nor shall any State deprive
any person of life, liberty, or property, with-
out due process of law. . .’’ and under Sec-
tion 5 of the XIV Amendment, ‘‘The Congress
shall have power to enforce, by appropriate
legislation, the provisions of this article.’’
By Mr. HICE of Georgia:
H.R. 306.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2, which
states: ‘‘The Congress shall have Power to
dispose of and make all needful Rules and
Regulations respecting the Territory or
other Property belonging to the United
States . . .’’
By Mr. HICE of Georgia:
H.R. 307.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion, specifically clause 1 (relating to pro-
viding for the general welfare of the United
States) and clause 18 (relating to the power
to make all laws necessary and proper for
carrying out the powers vested in Congress),
and Article IV, section 3, clause 2 (relating
to the power of Congress to dispose of and
make all needful rules and regulations re-
specting the territory or other property be-
longing to the United States).
By Mr. HICE of Georgia:
H.R. 308.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2, which
states: ‘‘The Congress shall have Power to
dispose of and make all needful Rules and
Regulations respecting the Territory or
other Property belonging to the United
States . . .’’
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 309.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section III, Clause II: ‘‘The
Congress shall have power to dispose of and
make all needful rules and regulations re-
specting the Territory or other property be-
longing to the United States; and nothing in
this Constitution shall be so construed as to
prejudice any claims of the United States, or
of any particular state.
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 310.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section III, Clause II: The Con-
gress shall have power to dispose of and
make all needful rules and regulations re-
specting the territory or other property be-
longing to the United States; and nothing in
this Constitution shall be so construed as to
prejudice any claims of the United States, or
of any particular state.
By Mr. JONES:
H.R. 311.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, section
8 of the United States Constitution (clauses
12, 13, 14, and 16), which grants Congress the
power to raise and support an Army; to pro-
vide and maintain a Navy; to make rules for
the government and regulation of the land
and naval forces; and to provide for orga-
nizing, arming, and disciplining the militia.
By Mr. KEATING:
H.R. 312.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.024 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H287
January 8, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. KEATING:
H.R. 313.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. KINZINGER:
H.R. 314.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. LAHOOD:
H.R. 315.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8, CLAUSE 18
The Congress shall have Power to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. LAMALFA:
H.R. 316.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
By Mr. LAMALFA:
H.R. 317.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution pro-
vides Congress with the authority to regu-
late commerce with Indians in the United
States.
By Mr. LAMBORN:
H.R. 318.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 319.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, Clause 1 and Article
IV, section 3
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 320.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 321.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 322.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8,
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 323.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 324.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 325.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 326.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 327.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section VIII
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 328.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 329.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section VIII
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 330.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 3 of the Con-
stitution
Article 1, Section 8, clause 1 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 331.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 3 provides Con-
gress with the power to ‘‘regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes.’’
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 332.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. BISHOP of Georgia:
H.R. 333.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. I, Sect. 8, Clause 1: to provide for the
common defense and general welfare.
Art. I, Sect. 8, Clause 12: to raise and sup-
port Armies.
Art. I, Sect. 8, Clause 14: To make Rules for
the Government and Regulation of the land
and naval Forces.
Art. I, Sect. 8, Clause 16: To provide for or-
ganizing, arming, and discipling, the Militia,
and for governing such Part of them as may
be employed in the Service of the United
States, reserving to the States respectively,
the Appointment of the Officers, and the Au-
thority of training the Militia according to
the discipline prescribed by Congress.
Art. I, Sect. 8, Clause 18: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United
Statesm or in any Department or Officer
thereof
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 334.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII
By Mr. MAST:
H.R. 335.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Necessary and Proper Clause in Arti-
cle I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 336.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. MCEACHIN:
H.R. 337.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 338.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 states ‘‘The
Congress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by the Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department of Officer
thereof.’’
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 339.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following: clause 7 of
section 9 of article I of the Constitution.
By Mr. NUNES:
H.R. 340.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of section 8 of article I of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 341.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 342.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States. To make all Laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in
the Government of the United States, or in
any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. RATCLIFFE:
H.R. 343.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 4, Section 3, Clause 2, relating to
the power of Congress to dispose of and make
all needful rules and regulations respecting
the territory or other property belonging to
the United States.
By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama:
H.R. 344.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The power of Congress to make rues to pro-
vide for the common defenes, as enumerated
in Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 345.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. THORNBERRY:
H.R. 346.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 and Article IV, Section
3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 347.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.027 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H288 January 8, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 348.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
By Ms. TITUS:
H.R. 349.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Clause 18 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 350.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 7 of Section 9 of Article 1 of the
Constitution of the United States.
Also, Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article 1 of
the U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 351.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 352.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 353.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 354.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 355.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. CHABOT:
H.J. Res. 22.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
joint resolution is derived from Article V of
the Constitution, which grants Congress the
authority, whenever two thirds of both
chambers deem it necessary, to propose
amendments to the Constitution of the
United States.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 24: Mr. BURGESS, Mr. JONES, and Mr.
RATCLIFFE.
H.R. 31: Ms. WATERS, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. TITUS,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr. BARR, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, and Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 35: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. MEEKS,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. NORTON, Mr. VELA, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. EVANS, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Mr. KHANNA, Ms. BASS, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER,
Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of
Illinois, Mr. CICILLINE, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. VARGAS, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Ms. TLAIB,
Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. MOULTON, Ms. KELLY
of Illinois, Mr. CLAY, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. SIRES,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. PALLONE, Mr.
COOPER, Mr. QUIGLEY, and Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 36: Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. VEASEY,
Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
LEWIS, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms. BONAMICI,
Ms. SPEIER, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
BEYER, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
RICHMOND, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
Mrs. DINGELL, and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 38: Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr.
EMMER, Mr. ESTES, Mr. WALBERG, Mr. ROD-
NEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr.
WENSTRUP, Mr. BRADY, Mr. BARR, and Mr.
RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 51: Mr. TRONE, Mr. AGUILAR, Ms.
TLAIB, Ms. HILL of California, Ms. WEXTON,
Ms. HAALAND, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Ms. GARCIA of Texas,
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, and Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 66: Mr. LONG and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 67: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. KIL-
MER, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, Mrs. TRAHAN,
Ms. HAALAND, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mrs. DAVIS of
California, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. SARBANES, Mr.
OLSON, Mr. JONES, Mr. LEVIN of California,
and Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 70: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 74: Mr. BABIN, Mr. GOSAR, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. NORMAN, and Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 78: Mr. BABIN and Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 80: Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. STANTON, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, and Mr. SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 85: Mr. BABIN, Mr. GOSAR, and Mr.
NORMAN.
H.R. 88: Mr. GOSAR and Mr. WEBER of
Texas.
H.R. 89: Mr. WEBSTER of Florida and Mrs.
LESKO.
H.R. 92: Mr. KIND, Mr. COHEN, Mr. MCNER-
NEY, Mr. TAKANO, and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 95: Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. PETERS, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, and Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 113: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 115: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. SHER-
MAN.
H.R. 117: Mr. DESAULNIER and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 118: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. POCAN,
and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 120: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 125: Mr. SIRES, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. TONKO,
Ms. PINGREE, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. FOS-
TER, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, and Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia.
H.R. 128: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 129: Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
BERA, Mr. HIMES, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illi-
nois, and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 132: Mr. VELA.
H.R. 133: Mr. SHERMAN and Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 139: Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 140: Mr. JONES, Mr. MARCHANT, and
Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 141: Ms. NORTON, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mr. SWALWELL of California, and
Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 144: Mr. HARRIS, Mr. POSEY, and Mr.
JONES.
H.R. 147: Mr. JONES.
H.R. 152: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 153: Mr. JONES.
H.R. 154: Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. DEFAZIO, and
Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 155: Mr. EMMER, Mr. ESTES, Mr.
RATCLIFFE, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
HARRIS, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. HICE of Georgia,
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio, Mr. NORMAN, Mr.
BIGGS, Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, and Mr. SMITH of Missouri.
H.R. 167: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. LYNCH, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
GOMEZ, and Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 169: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 180: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 184: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 185: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama and Mr.
RATCLIFFE.
H.R. 192: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. SHERMAN,
and Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 195: Mr. RUIZ and Ms. CLARKE of New
York.
H.R. 201: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 211: Mr. PETERS, Ms. BONAMICI, Mrs.
LEE of Nevada, Mr. CISNEROS, and Mr. HARD-
ER of California.
H.R. 214: Mr. FULCHER.
H.R. 221: Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr. LIPIN-
SKI, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER,
Mr. BEYER, Ms. NORTON, Ms. MENG, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. TITUS, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Ms.
FRANKEL, Mr. VELA, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. HIMES, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. NORCROSS, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
CHABOT, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. SIRES, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
MORELLE, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. KILMER, Mr. COURTNEY, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Ms.
OMAR, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY of New York, Mr. STEWART, Mr. BROWN
of Maryland, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
HARDER of California, Mr. KUSTOFF of Ten-
nessee, and Mr. GUTHRIE.
H.R. 226: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi and
Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 227: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 230: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 242: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. GABBARD, Ms.
DELAURO, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
NEGUSE, Ms. TLAIB, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALO-
NEY of New York, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, and Mr.
LEWIS.
H.R. 256: Mr. BABIN, Mr. GAETZ, and Mr.
JONES.
H.R. 257: Mr. ZELDIN and Miss RICE of New
York.
H.J. Res. 2: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Mrs. MURPHY, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. COOPER, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. SOTO, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. SCHIFF, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. WELCH, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. NORTON, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. PASCRELL, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. SCHNEI-
DER, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. LAMB,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. SIRES, Mr. O’HALLERAN,
and Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.J. Res. 8: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.030 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H289
January 8, 2019
H.J. Res. 18: Mr. HUIZENGA and Mr. BACON.
H.J. Res. 20: Mr. BIGGS, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr.
HOLLINGSWORTH, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. BACON, and
Mr. GOODEN.
H. Res. 14: Ms. STEVENS, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. COHEN, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. WELCH, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Mrs. DINGELL, Mrs. FLETCHER, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms.
DELBENE, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. HARDER of
California, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. DEFAZIO, and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
OFFERED BY MR. QUIGLEY
H.R. 264, making appropriations for finan-
cial services and general government for fis-
cal year 2019, and for other purposes, does
not contain any congressional earmark, lim-
ited tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as
defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
OFFERED BY MR. BISHOP OF GEORGIA
H.R. 265, making appropriations for Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, and Related Agencies pro-
grams for fiscal year 2019, and for other pur-
poses, does not contain any congressional
earmark, limited tax benefits, or limited tar-
iff benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
OFFERED BY MS. MCCOLLUM
H.R. 266, making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment, and
related agencies for fiscal year 2019, and for
other purposes, does not contain any con-
gressional earmark, limited tax benefits, or
limited tariff benefits as defined in clause 9
of rule XXI.
OFFERED BY MR. PRICE OF NORTH CAROLINA
H.R. 267, making appropriations for the De-
partment of Transportation, and Housing
and Urban Development, and related agen-
cies for fiscal year 2019, and for other pur-
poses, does not contain any congressional
earmark, limited tax benefits, or limited tar-
iff benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
OFFERED BY MRS. LOWEY
H.R. 268, making supplemental appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2019, and for other pur-
poses, does not contain any congressional
earmark, limited tax benefits, or limited tar-
iff benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA7.035 H08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S35
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2019 No. 3
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Merciful God, enthroned far above all
other powers, we need You to exercise
Your might for our Nation during this
challenging season. As we wrestle with
the stalemate of this partial govern-
ment shutdown, inspire our lawmakers
to do what is best for our Nation and
world. Remind them that Your power
is far above any conceivable command,
authority, or control. Help them to ap-
preciate their accountability to You,
as You guide them to contribute to
unity and finding common ground. Be
near to those who are the collateral
damage of this impasse, supporting
them with Your wisdom, power, mercy,
and grace.
We pray in Your sovereign Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HOEVEN). The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE CAL-
ENDAR—S. 28, H.R. 21, AND H.J.
RES. 1
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand that there are three bills at
the desk due for a second reading en
bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is correct.
The clerk will report the bills by
title for the second time en bloc.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 28) to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and for other purposes.
A bill (H.R. 21) making appropriations for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and
for other purposes.
A joint resolution (H.J. Res. 1) making fur-
ther continuing appropriations for the De-
partment of Homeland Security for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bills on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will be
placed on the calendar en bloc.
f
THE MIDDLE EAST
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, for
years America’s vital interests in the
Middle East have been jeopardized by
regional chaos. The security of our ally
Israel continues to be challenged by
the long reach of the Iranian regime
and its affiliates. In Syria, the Assad
regime has made its own nation a
graveyard for hundreds of thousands of
innocent civilians, and the resulting
chaos continues to provide Iran and
Russia opportunities to expand their
malign influence throughout the re-
gion. That is why the Senate is going
to vote later today to take up pressing
legislation that tackles all of this head
on.
The bill at hand would reaffirm the
United States’ commitment to Israel’s
security and authorize military assist-
ance, cooperative missile defense, and
loan guarantees. It would counter an
aggressive and hostile attempt to
delegitimize the State of Israel
through economic boycotts. It would
also reauthorize efforts to strengthen
defense cooperation with our ally Jor-
dan, as its people and government
grapple with the security and humani-
tarian ramifications of the Syrian cri-
sis.
Importantly, the legislation also in-
cludes the Caesar Syria Civilian Pro-
tection Act. This provision would hold
accountable individuals responsible for
the senseless evils of the Assad regime
and impose severe penalties on the en-
tities that support them.
We will vote later today on whether
or not Members of this body believe
these issues should be addressed. It is
my sincere hope that the Senate will
approve these bipartisan proposals and
send the strong message of support
that our friends and partners in the
Middle East deserve.
During the last Congress there was
broad agreement on both sides of the
aisle on the need for action. I expected
today’s action to be a big bipartisan
vote, not some partisan showdown, but
over the last few days something seems
to have happened. The Democratic
leader and several of his colleagues
have stood up and said they want to
block the Senate from even considering
this legislation—never mind that it in-
cludes legislation cosponsored by the
Senate Democrats last Congress and
never mind that Senate Democrats
mentioned the Syria crisis literally
dozens of times last month here on the
Senate floor.
f
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, in
spite of all of that, some Democrats
have now threatened to block us from
even taking this legislation up later
today. We would have to ask why. It is
because we are 18 days into the partial
government shutdown caused by Demo-
crats’ total unwillingness to negotiate
with the White House over border secu-
rity.
Democrat intransigence has made
sure that a quarter of the Federal Gov-
ernment has been shut down for more
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.000 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S36 January 8, 2019
than 2 weeks—2 weeks. Now they are
threatening to shut the Senate down
too. They have shut down the govern-
ment for 2 weeks, and now they want
to shut the Senate down. They are
threatening to shut down efforts to
protect our allies and strengthen our
relationship with Israel—something
they all recently claim to support.
Let’s remember what we are talking
about. In light of the urgent humani-
tarian and security crisis on our bor-
der, the President is requesting $5.7 bil-
lion for physical barriers and border se-
curity. For some context, that is just
about one-tenth of 1 percent of Federal
spending—one-tenth of 1 percent—for
physical barriers like fences and bar-
riers that already exist, which Demo-
crats have previously voted for with
enthusiasm.
Back in 2006, then-Senators Hillary
Clinton, Barack Obama, Joe Biden, and
our colleague, the current Democratic
leader, all voted for more than $1 bil-
lion to construct about 700 miles of
physical barriers.
Then-Senator Obama called it ‘‘badly
needed funding for better fences and
better security . . . that should help
stem some of the tide of illegal immi-
gration.’’ That is what Senator Barack
Obama said.
Senator SCHUMER later described his
vote proudly as ‘‘miles of border fence
that create a significant barrier to ille-
gal immigration.’’
As recently as 2015, Secretary Clin-
ton boasted: ‘‘I voted numerous times
. . . to spend money to build a barrier
to try to prevent illegal immigrants
from coming in.’’ That is what Hillary
Clinton said.
Obviously, that was then, and today
the new Speaker of the House is trying
to argue that a physical barrier is ‘‘im-
moral’’—‘‘immoral.’’
Today, my friend the Democratic
leader is proposing to add a Senate
shutdown to the partial Federal Gov-
ernment shutdown and block even
more of the people’s business, all—all—
to avoid more of what he already voted
for. Maybe the Democratic Party was
for secure borders before they were
against it, maybe they are just making
it up as they go along, or maybe they
are dead set on opposing this particular
President on any issue, for any reason,
just for the sake of opposing him.
Walls and barriers are not immoral—
how silly. Enforcing our laws wasn’t
immoral back in 2006 when then-Sen-
ator Clinton, then-Senator Obama, and
our friend the Democratic leader were
proud—proud—to vote for physical bar-
riers. The only things that have
changed between then and now are the
political whims and, of course, the oc-
cupant of the White House.
This is no newfound, principled objec-
tion. It is just political spite—a par-
tisan tantrum being prioritized over
the public interest. For more than 2
weeks, they have indulged in that par-
tisan tantrum rather than negotiate in
good faith over border security fund-
ing—hardly something that should be a
partisan subject in the first place.
They have put that partisan tantrum
ahead of keeping a quarter of the gov-
ernment open. Now they are saying
their partisan tantrum is more urgent
than pressing legislation that concerns
our alliance with Israel and the Syrian
civil war.
I hope that isn’t the case. I hope our
Democratic colleagues don’t pile on
even more pointless obstruction. I hope
they don’t block the Senate from turn-
ing to this important legislation—leg-
islation, by the way, they support. We
will find out later today.
We all know what is necessary to
move past the funding impasse: a nego-
tiated solution that can pass the
House, earn 60 votes in the Senate, and
get the President’s signature. That is
what it takes to make a law.
As I have stated clearly, the Senate
will not waste floor time on show
votes, messaging votes, or any other
proposals that fail to check those boxes
regarding the funding bills.
The Democratic leader actually
shared that opinion earlier. Here is a
fairly recent quote from the Demo-
cratic leader. He said: ‘‘The President
must publicly support and say he will
sign an agreement before it gets a vote
in either Chamber.’’ That is a fairly re-
cent quote.
I am glad we seem to agree on that—
no wasted floor time on appropriations
bills that fail to clear the President’s
reasonable threshold.
For the sake of the humanitarian cri-
sis on our border—as the President will
describe in his address to the Nation
this evening—for the sake of our na-
tional security, and for the sake of all
the Americans who need all of their
Federal Government reopened, I would
urge our Democratic colleagues to get
past these harmful political games and
get serious about negotiating with the
President.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
S. 1
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, today
the Senate will vote to begin consider-
ation of legislation that will address
some of the seemingly never-ending
challenges the world—including the
United States—is facing in the Middle
East.
The decision made at the beginning
of the 20th century by then First Lord
of the Admiralty, Winston Churchill,
to convert British ships from coal to
oil for fuel changed world history by
making access to Middle East oil re-
serves a national security imperative
for all developed nations.
More recently, on 9/11 of 2001, when
nearly 3,000 Americans lost their lives
in a terrorist attack directed from Af-
ghanistan on New York’s World Trade
Center and the Pentagon, we learned a
hard lesson: Although separated by an
ocean, what happens in the region does
not stay in the region.
Finally, with the proliferation of nu-
clear weapons and the nuclear aspira-
tions of Iran—the No. 1 state sponsor of
terrorism in the world—to attain them,
the relative stability and security of
the Middle East have a direct connec-
tion to our national security, as well as
that of our allies, like Israel.
With the administration’s recent an-
nouncement that the United States
will begin withdrawing troops from
Syria, this debate and these votes
could not be more timely.
While I am comforted by National
Security Advisor John Brennan’s re-
cent statement that the withdrawal
from Syria will be conditions-based,
the precise details of how and when it
will be executed remain to be seen. One
thing, however, is perfectly clear: We
cannot allow the creation of a power
vacuum in the Middle East to bolster
our adversaries’ influence in the re-
gion. That is precisely what this legis-
lation addresses. The Strengthening
America’s Security in the Middle East
Act incorporates four bipartisan, non-
controversial bills that were nearly en-
acted last year, but the clock on the
115th Congress ran out on December 31.
As we begin what I hope will be an-
other productive year in the Senate, I
am glad we will have a chance to vote
on this legislation.
Our national interests demand that
we fully support and ensure the secu-
rity of Israel—our closest ally in the
region. As the majority leader said last
week, this bill affirms that the United
States needs to do more than just talk
the talk; we must also walk the walk
to support Israel’s security.
This legislation will help Israel
maintain its qualitative military edge
against ongoing threats by authorizing
military assistance and allowing the
transfer of equipment and defensive
weapons. Importantly, it will also as-
sist Israel in countering the emerging
threat of unmanned aerial vehicles de-
ployed by Iran, in particular.
In addition to supporting Israel, it
will empower State and local govern-
ments in the United States to counter
the anti-Israel boycott, divestment,
and sanctions movement—better
known as BDS—and its discriminatory
economic warfare against the Jewish
state.
In addition to nurturing our relation-
ship with Israel, the bill also recog-
nizes the importance of supporting Jor-
dan—another key regional ally. It re-
authorizes legislation to strengthen
our defense cooperation and support
Jordan’s response to the overwhelming
humanitarian crisis caused by the Syr-
ian civil war. According to the United
Nations, there are more than 740,000
refugees in Jordan. That equates to 89
refugees per 1,000 inhabitants, making
them the second highest refugee host
nation per capita in the world.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.002 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S37
January 8, 2019
The impact of the crisis in Syria is
immense and potentially destabilizing
and requires our support to maintain
the peace.
Finally, this bill takes critical steps
to address the ongoing war and human-
itarian crisis in Syria by providing aid
to impacted communities and con-
demns the heinous human rights viola-
tions committed by the murderous
Assad regime.
Until this horrendous conflict is re-
solved, new sanctions will be imposed
on anyone who supports Syria either fi-
nancially or militarily.
It is true that this bill will not solve
all the problems in the Middle East. It
will not, for example, provide justice to
innocent civilians killed by the Assad
regime. It will not rebuild the commu-
nities treated as collateral damage
throughout this crisis. But it is a step
to ensure our allies are prepared to
fight for and defend our shared na-
tional security interests.
Senate Democrats have indicated,
unfortunately, that they are likely to
block this legislation from coming to
the floor, as their discussions with the
President on border security remain at
an impasse. Leader MCCONNELL,
though, has made it clear that the Sen-
ate will not waste time holding show
votes on legislation that the President
will not sign, so we continue to wait
for Speaker PELOSI and Minority Lead-
er SCHUMER to take serious, credible
action to break that impasse. Until
that time, there is a lot of work we can
and should do, such as debating and
voting on this legislation, which will
protect our national security interests
in the Middle East.
Twenty-five percent of our govern-
ment has already been shut down be-
cause of this impasse. I urge our Demo-
cratic colleagues in the Senate not to
shut down the work of the Senate too.
I want to thank the majority leader
for scheduling this important debate
and vote, and I look forward to voting
yes when the time comes.
f
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, as I
mentioned, this partial government
shutdown continues, now on its 18th
day. But 18 days in, not much has
changed. The newly elected Demo-
cratic House refused to come to the ne-
gotiating table with a serious offer or
to negotiate in good faith.
This entire debate has been surreal. I
would say it has been a joke, but it is
really not funny. It has now degen-
erated into a game of silly semantics,
while losing sight of just how much is
at stake for the people affected.
A secure and vibrant border is crit-
ical to the safety and livelihood of our
entire country, and it, of course, plays
a vital part in the daily life for many
Texans, especially those who live and
work in the border region. If you visit
El Paso, for example, out West, you
will see firsthand how interconnected
the city is with its neighbor, Juarez.
Mexico is literally on the other side of
the international bridge. Each day at
that single port of entry, an average of
20,000 people cross the border on foot
legally—going to work, going to
school, visiting friends and family, or
shopping. That is in addition to the
35,000 car crossings and the 2,500 cargo
trucks that cross each day just at the
El Paso port of entry.
I often compare the United States
and Mexico to an old married couple
who have occasional differences but
who can’t get divorced. We depend on
one another, and we depend on a safe,
secure, and efficient border to allow
both countries to live in harmony.
Not everyone or everything attempt-
ing to cross the border is in our coun-
try’s best interest. Transnational
criminals, drug smugglers, and human
traffickers try to take advantage of
any opportunity, any gaps in our bor-
der, and they use it to infiltrate,
threaten, and endanger our commu-
nities.
For too long, our frontline officers
and agents haven’t had the tools and
resources they need to do their job.
Whether it is outdated infrastructure,
personnel shortages, or technology, the
fact remains that we need additional
border security funding to empower
these hard-working officers and agents
to complete their mission at both our
ports of entry and between those ports
of entry.
After talking to the experts—Border
Patrol officials in Texas, as well as
local stakeholders—I introduced legis-
lation in the fall of 2017 to address a
number of their concerns. That legisla-
tion, called the Building America’s
Trust Act, would have authorized ap-
proximately $15 billion over 4 years for
a long-term border security and inte-
rior enforcement strategy. Notably,
the bill provided a great deal of discre-
tion to the Department of Homeland
Security’s experts on the ground to de-
termine what tactics were needed and
where.
As my friend Manuel Padilla, former
Chief of the Border Patrol’s Rio Grande
Valley Sector, once told me—he said:
The answer to border security from the
Border Patrol’s perspective is finding
the right balance of three things: per-
sonnel, technology, and infrastructure.
The landscape along the U.S.-Mexico
border—particularly the 1,200 miles of
common border between Mexico and
Texas—the geography varies signifi-
cantly, and there is no one-size-fits-all
solution to border security. That is
why it is important to listen and learn
from law enforcement and key stake-
holders how to adapt the right mix to
each area. That way, we can ensure we
are deploying the most effective and
practical solutions to achieve oper-
ational control along the southern bor-
der.
Yes, we need physical infrastructure
in places—a fence, a wall, a vehicle
barrier, for example—because the hard-
working agents and officers on the
ground tell us that it works, and we
would benefit from more of it. But we
also need personnel to enforce the laws
along the border and ensure our ports
of entry are operating efficiently. And,
yes, we need technology, things like
scanners to scan for drugs that are em-
bedded in shipments that come across
the border. We need drones, radar, and
sensors to help maximize border secu-
rity, as well as access to the Rio
Grande for Border Patrol agents so
they can police the border for illegal
entry.
This shouldn’t be a partisan debate,
and historically, our differences on this
topic have not been so polarizing. I
think the nature of our political sys-
tem today makes it easy to forget that
not too long ago, border security was
something supported by both political
parties.
In 2006, the Senate passed the Secure
Fence Act by a vote of 80 to 19. That is
what I would call a bipartisan victory.
Among those who voted for that bill in-
clude many current and former leaders
of the Democratic Party, including Mi-
nority Leader CHUCK SCHUMER, then-
Senator Barack Obama, and then-Sen-
ator Hillary Clinton. They didn’t be-
lieve that fences and walls and physical
barriers were immoral, as apparently
the current Speaker of the House of
Representatives does. Not only did that
legislation call for more than 800 miles
of fencing along the U.S.-Mexico bor-
der, it also authorized the other impor-
tant components of border security
that I talked about, things like tech-
nology and personnel. That was in the
2006.
In 2013, more recently, all 54 Demo-
cratic Senators voted for $46 billion in
border security—every single one—and
now President Trump’s request for $5
billion is somehow a nonstarter.
The Border Security, Economic Op-
portunity, and Immigration Moderniza-
tion Act provided funding for, yes, in-
frastructure, personnel, and tech-
nology. That is exactly the right mix
that Chief Padilla mentioned, which I
referred to a moment ago. These are
really the same types of issues we are
talking about today. These are not rad-
ical ideas. We need a sensible combina-
tion of physical barriers, technology,
and personnel.
My Democratic colleagues supported
border security during the Bush admin-
istration. They supported border secu-
rity during the Obama administration.
Now I urge them to come to the table
with a serious proposal to help secure
our border and end this standoff and to
stop the foolishness and the political
games.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.004 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S38 January 8, 2019
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, morning business is
closed.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—Motion to Proceed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the motion to
proceed to S. 1, which the clerk will re-
port.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1) to make improvements to cer-
tain defense and security assistance provi-
sions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of
the Syrian people, and for other purposes.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I now
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The VICE PRESIDENT. Without ob-
jection, it is so ordered.
f
CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION
The VICE PRESIDENT. The Chair
previously laid before the Senate the
certificate of election from the State of
Florida. The certificate was in the
form suggested by the Senate and was
printed in the RECORD.
(The certificate of election was print-
ed in the RECORD of January 3, 2019.)
f
ADMINISTRATION OF OATH OF
OFFICE
The VICE PRESIDENT. If the Sen-
ator-elect will now present himself at
the desk, the Chair will administer the
oath of office.
The Senator-elect, Rick Scott, es-
corted by Mr. RUBIO, Mr. LeMieux, Mr.
Martinez, and Mr. McGillicuddy III, ad-
vanced to the desk of the Vice Presi-
dent; the oath prescribed by law was
administered to him by the Vice Presi-
dent; and he thereupon subscribed to
the oath in the Official Oath Book.
The VICE PRESIDENT. Congratula-
tions, Senator.
(Applause, Senators rising.)
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—Motion to Proceed
(Continued)
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HOEVEN). The majority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
S. 1
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, a few mo-
ments ago we welcomed our new col-
league, my colleague for the State of
Florida, former Governor and now U.S.
Senator RICK SCOTT, who will do a phe-
nomenal job here on behalf of the State
of Florida. I welcome him to the U.S.
Senate, the world’s greatest delibera-
tive body—and, on occasion, perhaps
the strangest as well.
In about 1 hour 15 minutes, the Sen-
ate is going to take up S. 1, which is a
combination of four separate bills that
enjoy widespread support in this Cham-
ber from colleagues on both sides of the
aisle, all of them sponsored and cospon-
sored by both sides of the aisle, and ap-
parently we will fail to get a signifi-
cant number of votes to get on this
bill, nonetheless.
So it is perhaps one the few places on
Earth where people vote against things
they are for because of reasons unre-
lated to the issue at hand. I don’t want
to dig too deep into that. That will be
a topic for conversation later on, and
maybe I will be wrong. Maybe they will
change their minds in the next 1 hour
15 minutes, and we will have the votes
we need, but I don’t think it makes a
lot of sense to say: I am upset about
the government shutdown—by the way,
the Senate voted unanimously to fund
the government by a voice vote. We
didn’t even have a rollcall vote. So this
Chamber has already enacted in that
regard. At this point, it is incumbent
on the leaders of the Democratic Party
in the Senate, combined with the
White House, to come up with a deal to
reopen the government. This govern-
ment shutdown is not good for any-
body. I have never seen anybody win
one of these.
That said, I don’t know why we
would shut down the Senate, too, given
the issues we face.
About 3 weeks ago, the President an-
nounced that the United States was
withdrawing from our engagement in
Syria. I—and I think the majority of
the people in the Senate—believed that
decision was a mistake and is a mis-
take.
While I was certainly encouraged by
some of the comments by the head of
the National Security Council, Ambas-
sador John Bolton, on the pace and
scale and scope of the withdrawal,
nonetheless, there have been con-
flicting statements since then which
put this all in question.
At the time he made this decision, we
walked through all of the reasons why
this was a mistake—not because we
want to be in war in Syria forever.
That is false. Of course, it has to come
to an end, but it needs to come to an
end in a way that is in the interest of
the United States of America. It is not
in the interest of the United States of
America to see ISIS reemerge the way
they did after 2011, when the United
States left Iraq.
When the United States left and
pulled back its presence in Iraq, it al-
lowed ISIS to reconstitute itself and
reemerge. They were called something
different then, but they were basically
a spinoff of al-Qaida. They started out
as an insurgency and grew very rap-
idly. They are larger today and they
are more powerful today than when
they reconstituted themselves almost a
decade ago. I have no doubt that if this
moves forward, ISIS will reconstitute
itself, maybe not as a caliphate but as
something equally dangerous, and that
is an insurgency with the capability
not just to create havoc, mayhem,
murder, and destruction in Syria and
potentially once again in Iraq but also
to externally plot and attack us here
on Homeland.
This raises all other types of possi-
bilities, like the Iraqi troops along
with irregular forces sponsored by
Iran—the Shia militia that have been
on the ground in Iraq—coming across
the border and into Syria. We all have
read and heard about the Turkish
troops that want to come into the
Kurdish areas.
If Assad is sitting there now with the
United States pulling out and all of
this is going on, he figures that at this
point what does he need a political so-
lution for, what does he need the U.N.
or anybody for? The saddest part is
that this diminishes the chances that
Assad will ever have to face account-
ability for the crimes committed by his
regime against innocent civilians—
children, women, and others—not just
for the gassing and use of chemical
weapons but for widespread torture and
murder. We will discuss that more as
the week goes on.
We are also concerned about Iran’s
growing influence with the United
States leaving, especially in southeast
Iraq and on the border of Jordan and
Israel, with Hezbollah and other Ira-
nian proxies and Iran itself, or the
IRGC and General Soleimani, who is a
maven of murder in that area, basi-
cally doing whatever they want. They
have more freedom of movement, and
there is the direct threat that it poses
to both Israel and to Jordan.
By the way, when the Turks come in
or potentially Iraqi troops come in—
when ISIS is reconstituted and starts
killing people again—you are going to
have new refugee flows. Maybe it will
be mostly Kurds this time, maybe folks
from the Syrian defense forces who had
fought alongside us for a while and
their families. Where will all of these
new refugees go? Potentially, some will
wind up in Jordan, further desta-
bilizing or testing that country’s abil-
ity to deal with all of this.
On that last point, both the Kurds
and the Syrian defense forces have in
excess of 700 ISIS fighters in custody,
in prison. Are they going to let them
all go? Because without us there sup-
porting them, I don’t know how they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.005 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S39
January 8, 2019
are going to hold them, and none of the
countries they came from want them
back. So you can potentially face hun-
dreds of ISIS fighters being released
overnight. These are all the con-
sequences—and more.
What are we going to do if in a few
days, a few weeks, or months from now
ISIS decides to deploy chemical weap-
ons against the Kurds or others in
these areas? That is the parade of
horribles, and the possibilities are ex-
traordinary. We could go on and on for
a while.
That is why, among other reasons, it
was a mistake, and when we came out
and said it was a mistake, a lot of peo-
ple said: What are you going to do
about it? Don’t just talk; act.
It is difficult in an issue like this.
Congress can stop wars. Congress can
defund them and deauthorize actions,
but Congress cannot force the Com-
mander in Chief to stay in a military
engagement. We cannot force the
President to deploy troops or keep
them somewhere. We can keep him
from doing it, but we can’t force him to
do it. Our options in this field are lim-
ited.
We wanted to do something. We felt
so strongly about this. The response is
S. 1, which is the item before us here
today. S. 1, as I said, combines these
four bills that enjoy widespread bipar-
tisan support. You would think that in
the midst of everything else that is
going on, this would be a really good
way to start the new Congress, in for-
eign policy, in an area that tradition-
ally has not been partisan—or
shouldn’t have been—by combining
these four bills into S. 1, which is what
is before us today.
I want to briefly outline the four pro-
visions combined in this bill. Two of
them deal directly with our ally in
Israel. First, it makes very clear that
‘‘it shall be the policy of the United
States to provide assistance to the
Government of Israel in order to sup-
port funding for cooperative programs
to develop, produce, and procure mis-
sile, rocket, projectile, and other de-
fense capabilities to help Israel meet
its security needs and to help develop
and enhance United States defense ca-
pabilities.’’
That last line is important because
much of the technology that is being
innovated and developed by Israel to
defend Israel can also be used by the
United States to protect us from rock-
et attacks there or when we are de-
ployed abroad. The reason why this is
so critical is that Hezbollah has a large
presence in Syria and has their base of
operations in Lebanon. Today,
Hezbollah is better funded, better
equipped, and has more armaments
than at any time in its history.
We all recall the Hezbollah-Israel war
from about over a decade and a half
ago. The next Israel-Hezbollah war will
be far deadlier and costly because
Hezbollah no longer simply depends on
Iran to provide them the weapons.
They make them themselves.
Hezbollah no longer has a few rockets.
It has enough to potentially overwhelm
defenses. That means you could have
the best missile defense system in the
world, but if you fire enough of them,
eventually some of them will get
through, and when they get through in
a small country like Israel—which at
its narrowest point is only 9 miles
wide—and it hits a population center
and kills thousands of people, then,
you know we are facing a catastrophe.
Israel will respond to that sort of at-
tack with overwhelming force. This
could spiral quickly out of control.
How could we wind up at that point?
We could wind up at that point because
now that the United States is leaving
Syria, the Israelis are going to say: We
are not going to allow Iran and
Hezbollah to build up its presence. We
are going to step up our military at-
tacks inside of Syria.
It is possible, when they step it up,
that it is likely that Iran and
Hezbollah will respond by hitting back.
Then, Israel will hit back even harder.
At that point of escalation, you could
easily see the missiles start coming out
of Lebanon into Israel, and Israel re-
sponding with overwhelming force, and
then we have a much broader conflict,
with thousands—if not hundreds of
thousands—of people whose lives are on
the line.
So making it clear to Hezbollah or to
any enemy of Israel that the United
States stands ready to equip them in
the case of such a contingency is one of
the best things we can do to prevent it
from happening. If Israel’s enemies be-
lieve there is any doubt that the
United States will step forward and
help Israel resupply in case of such
conflict, you have increased the prob-
ability that they will miscalculate and
take such action.
But if they know that we are com-
mitted to rearming Israel as often and
as much as possible and necessary in
order to help them defend themselves,
then, the chances of them attacking
are diminished. That is why this bill
authorizes U.S. security assistance in
foreign military financing to Israel at
an amount no less than $3.3 billion a
year for the next 10 years.
By the way, this, in essence, is au-
thorizing a memoranda of under-
standing signed between the Obama ad-
ministration and Israel. We are author-
izing that and putting it into law. We
are also authorizing the President to
transfer precision-guided munitions to
reserve stocks as needed for legitimate
self-defense by Israel. The world now
knows—and Israel’s enemies now
know—that the United States has put
aside reserve precision-guided muni-
tions that are there if Israel needs
them for us to quickly transport them
to them in case they come under at-
tack and run low on the munitions
they need to defend themselves. That is
the first thing this bill does.
Another thing it does, by the way, is
the Combating BDS Act of 2019. For
those not familiar with BDS, it is boy-
cott, divestment, and sanctions. It is,
in essence, by and large, to punish
Israel by convincing companies—inter-
national companies and others—to boy-
cott doing business with Israel or
Israeli entities, to divest of invest-
ments in Israel or Israeli entities, and
convincing governments to sanction
Israel.
This provision of the law does not
outlaw boycott, divestments, and sanc-
tions. If a United States company
caves to this pressure and decides it is
going to boycott or divest from Israel,
they have the legal right to do so. This
doesn’t outlaw it. However, it does say
if a State or local government decides
that it is not going to do business or if
the government is not going to issue
contracts for goods or services with
any company that is boycotting or di-
vesting from Israel, they have a right
to do that.
I have heard the argument that this
is about free speech. First of all, it is
not about free speech. It is about for-
eign policy. We will talk about that
more as the week goes on, but there
are court cases out there that talk
about how this is not an effort to influ-
ence a domestic political debate or to
speak or take action in the form of
speech that influences a domestic po-
litical debate. This is about influencing
the behavior of a foreign government’s
foreign policy. The courts give broad
discretion to Congress and the Presi-
dent in the setting of our foreign pol-
icy.
Putting that aside for a moment, as
I told already you, this doesn’t in any
way prevent anyone from participating
in boycotting or divesting from Israel.
All it says is that if you do, your cli-
ents, in the form of State or local gov-
ernments, can boycott or divest from
you in return. Free speech is a two-way
street.
Beyond that, it makes it very clear
in the law that nothing in this law
should be construed to violate anyone’s
First Amendment rights.
These are the two provisions that
help Israel and to prevent the sort of
economic warfare that is being driven
against them and to make clear to
their adversaries that the United
States stands ready to resupply and
strengthen Israel’s ability to defend
itself—not just helping Israel defend
itself if it comes under attack but,
frankly, in the hopes of deterring an
attack against Israel. We do that by
authorizing and putting into law the
memorandum of understanding that
was signed by the Obama administra-
tion in September of 2016.
In addition, the third thing the bill
does is to deal with Jordan. Jordan is a
U.S. ally. It is, by the way, a nation
that, along with Egypt, has been a
linchpin of Israel’s security in the re-
gion, and it is also a nation that has
faced an onslaught of refugees fleeing
the conflict in Syria. They face the
threat from ISIS, as well. In S. 1, we
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act, which passed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.007 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S40 January 8, 2019
in 2015. It is an act that, among other
things, includes Jordan on the list of
countries that are eligible for certain
streamlined defense sales, because Jor-
dan itself is facing many of the same
challenges, particularly because of our
pullout from Syria.
If you think the pullout from Syria—
especially from southeastern Syria—is
a good thing for Jordan, you are wrong.
Once the United States leaves that
area, the Iranian influence will grow,
and potentially, the ISIS influence will
grow. It will become harder—not easi-
er—on Jordan. This is the least we can
do to strengthen an important ally in
this legion.
The last piece is one sponsored by the
soon-to-be chairman of the Foreign Re-
lations Committee, Senator RISCH—the
Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act.
It does three principle things. It re-
quires the Treasury to determine
whether the Central Bank of Syria is a
financial institution that launders
money for the regime. I am not sure it
will take them long to conclude that
they are, but that opens the door for
the second thing it does, and that is
new sanctions on anyone who does
business with or provides financing to
the Syrian regime.
It also, by the way, requires the ad-
ministration to brief us here in Con-
gress as part of our oversight role on
what our strategy is to facilitate the
delivery of humanitarian products and
humanitarian assistance inside Syria.
Hopefully, we will be on this bill, but
as the week goes on, I sadly will have
to come to the floor and point out the
horrifying atrocities that have been
committed and that, I believe 50 and
100 years from now, people will look
back at as one of the most horrifying
things that have happened in this cen-
tury. The people who have done this
should be held to account.
This law puts in place not just re-
quiring the administration to tell us
what they plan to do in the short term
to help people to the extent possible,
but it also puts in place the ability to
hold those who have done this respon-
sible and accountable for what they did
and what they continue to do.
I sincerely hope that we can get on
this because the American people in
the face of all this noise that is out
there are in desperate need of reassur-
ance that our Republic still works and
that, at a minimum, we can still agree
on what we agree on and we don’t use
the pretext of a shutdown to shut down
the Senate.
As I remind everyone again—and I
know we have some new Members—this
body unanimously passed a bill to fund
the government. I have my views on
this shutdown, and I don’t understand
the objection. It is $5 billion for spend-
ing on border security. By the way, it
is not $5 billion on a wall. It is $5 bil-
lion to fund the top 10 priorities of the
border security plan, and included in
those top 10 are those of strengthening
existing walls and barriers and building
some new ones, but it includes far more
than just a wall. I remind many of my
colleagues who were here in 2013 that
when we sponsored the Senate bill on
immigration, we authorized four times
as much in that bill for border secu-
rity. Of course, the politics have
changed, and so people’s positions on
the issue of border security have
changed.
That said, I am not in favor of gov-
ernment shutdowns. I don’t think they
make sense. The people have nothing
to do with this. They are not respon-
sible for this. Border agents, TSA em-
ployees, and Federal employees from
these Agencies all across the country
are missing paydays now. Their mort-
gage companies and their credit card
companies don’t care that there is a
shutdown. They want to get paid or
they will ruin your credit. I hope we
can find a resolution for them—but
also for the country—without our
abandoning the reality that we need to
deal with border security.
Here is what I know, though. I don’t
believe shutting down the Senate and
not allowing us to move forward on
something as important as a Syria pol-
icy is the way to resolve the shutdown
issue. You don’t solve a shutdown with
a shutdown. Shutting down the Senate
and saying we are not doing anything
here until we resolve this issue is not a
constructive approach, and it is cer-
tainly not the way to start this new
Congress.
At a time when, I think, the Senate
serves as important a role as it has in
two decades, this country needs a Sen-
ate that is capable of functioning and
agreeing on the things we agree on—on
passing bills that have broad support
and not allowing them to fall victim to
debates that are unrelated to the issues
at hand. I remind all of my colleagues
who, just 2 or 3 weeks ago, joined me
and others in criticizing the decision to
draw down from Syria; that there isn’t
a lot we can do in Congress to force the
President to stay there, but there are
some things we can do to reassure our
allies in the region that at least in the
U.S. Senate they have our support—
that Israel and Jordan and the inno-
cents who have been tortured and
killed in Syria have our support. We
have a bill before the Senate, S.1, that
does that, and I don’t know why we are
not looking forward to at least debat-
ing it.
The vote we are taking in about 60
minutes or 59 minutes from now is not
a vote to pass it. It is just a vote to
begin debate on it. That is all it is. It
is a vote to begin debate on it. To not
even allow debate to begin on some-
thing we basically largely agree on
may make a lot of sense in the hall-
ways here, but it doesn’t make a lot of
sense to the men and women back
home who are already watching the
government shutdown with disdain and
who then, on top of it, see that not
even the Senate can function in the
midst of all of this.
I hope, whether it is today or later
this week, my colleagues across the
aisle will reconsider their objection to
even beginning debate so we can get on
this and get to work on behalf of the
men and women of this country for
whom we work and represent.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
JOHNSON). The Senator from New Mex-
ico.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I rise to
call on the President to stop holding
the government hostage and trying to
force taxpayers to pay for his border
wall—a wall that would be ineffective
and wasteful and that is rejected by
the American people.
President Trump said he is ‘‘proud’’—
that is his word that he used—to shut
down the government. He is proud to
force hundreds of thousands of people
across this country to miss their hard-
earned paychecks. He is proud to shut-
ter critical services. He is proud to try
and extort the American people into
paying for a wall they don’t support.
This Trump shutdown is nothing to be
proud of. It is a national disgrace, and
it is time to end this recklessness.
I join with my Democratic colleagues
today in calling on the Republican
leaders to do their jobs and reopen the
government right now. The American
people don’t support Trump’s border
wall, and they don’t support this
Trump shutdown. The funding bills
that are being held up and used by the
President as a bargaining chip have
broad bipartisan support. The Demo-
crats in both Chambers want to pass
these appropriations bills now. Yet, as
the Democrats stand ready to reopen
the government, President Trump
plans to address the Nation tonight to
tell us again why he is proud to keep
the government shut down.
We will likely hear more bizarre talk
tonight about what we need at the bor-
der from a President who doesn’t know
the first thing about the border. Once
again, we will likely hear blatant lies
about immigrants, about our border,
and about our border communities. The
American people are tired of this Presi-
dent’s assault on the truth. They are
tired of having their lives and liveli-
hoods caught up in this President’s in-
ability to rise to the office he holds. No
address from the Oval Office will
change that.
We need the Republican leadership in
this Chamber to muster the political
will to stand up to the President and
get Federal employees back to work
and critical services restored. We are
now on day 18 of this shutdown—the
second longest period that the govern-
ment has been shuttered since 1980. We
have already begun to see real-life con-
sequences for families all across the
Nation, and my home State of New
Mexico is one of the States that is
being hit the hardest by the Presi-
dent’s temper tantrum, by his act of
political extortion.
In New Mexico, roughly 5,800 Federal
workers are either furloughed or are
working without pay. These aren’t just
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.008 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S41
January 8, 2019
numbers, these are real people. They
are real people who are wondering how
they will make their mortgages or rent
payments or will feed their families. A
Federal employee in Albuquerque
wrote to my office to tell me how this
shutdown is affecting her and her fam-
ily.
She wrote to me to ‘‘go on the record
that I am not one of the Federal em-
ployees the President is touting . . . as
wanting to be out of work, without a
paycheck, until he gets his wall.’’
She had an important message for
the Republican leadership of the Sen-
ate:
The Senate does not work for the Presi-
dent—it is supposed to represent the citizens
of the United States . . . . Federal employ-
ees do not want to stay out of work; we want
to go back to work and get paid.
She ended:
This is not our fight—just his.
Economic anxiety is pervasive in all
corners of the State. In fact, New Mex-
ico was recently ranked as the most
vulnerable to the impacts of the shut-
down because of our significant Federal
workforce and the importance of the
Federal Government to our economy.
As the ranking member of the Sub-
committee on the Interior, Environ-
ment, and Related Agencies, I am
acutely aware of how the lapse in ap-
propriations is affecting the Agencies
that are funded in our bill and the serv-
ices they provide. These include the
Department of the Interior, the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency, and the
Indian Health Service.
As the ranking member of the Senate
Indian Affairs Committee, I am espe-
cially cognizant of how this shutdown
is hurting Native communities. For
Tribes across Indian Country, the shut-
down’s consequences are particularly
dire after their going more than 2
weeks without Federal funds. Simply
put, Tribes report that Federal pro-
grams that are critical to health and
public safety are grinding to a halt and
that lives are in danger.
In New Mexico, the shutdown has left
the Mescalero Apache Tribe’s reserva-
tion—larger in size than the entire city
of Houston, TX—with only one on-duty
police officer, which would be unac-
ceptable even under normal cir-
cumstances. Yet, due to a huge winter
storm that left my State under heavy
snowfall and subfreezing temperatures,
that lone officer is responsible for not
only responding to domestic violence
and child welfare but also to snow-re-
lated accidents and emergencies across
720 square miles—all because fur-
loughed road crews aren’t clearing the
snow and ice from the reservation’s
roads. One elder already died because
he was unable to make it to dialysis.
Sadly, Mescalero’s experiences are not
uncommon.
The Yurok Tribe of California will
soon have to close its courts, curtailing
the Tribe’s efforts to rein in the opioid
epidemic. Urban Indian Health Pro-
grams in Baltimore and Boston are
days away from closing completely,
leaving Native families in these cities
without support. The Yankton Sioux
Tribe in South Dakota was just in-
formed that its Indian Health Service
unit must begin reducing services.
The 276 Tribes that depend on the
USDA’s Food Distribution Programs
on Indian reservations—a program that
feeds nearly 100,000 American Indians
and Alaska Natives—are also faced
with reliving the 2013 shutdown crisis,
when food rotted in locked warehouses
while hungry families gathered out-
side—all because the President and
some extreme Members of his party
refuse to do their jobs and keep the
government open.
It is disgraceful, and it is dangerous.
Every day that the President continues
to treat Tribal health and public safety
programs like hostages for political
gain, it endangers families across In-
dian Country. The United States has
trust and treaty obligations that
Tribes obtained in exchange for ceding
millions of acres of land. The con-
sequences of the President’s outright
disregard for treaty obligations are
real. The consequences of the Senate
majority leader’s inaction are real. The
consequences of the Republicans’ un-
willingness to stand up for Tribes in
their States—to stand up for basic hu-
manity and common sense—are also
real.
We are talking about people’s lives
and the fundamental obligation of our
Nation to honor its commitment to Na-
tive Americans. It is really that sim-
ple. We all know how pressing these
problems are. The impacts of the
Trump shutdown are far and wide.
There are thousands of stories across
the Nation. Let me tell you another
from my home State of New Mexico.
A local Santa Fe small business—a
construction company, Sarcon Con-
struction Corporation—is ready to
begin an $8.4 million project to build
two new hangars at the Santa Fe Mu-
nicipal Airport. This 32,000-square-foot
project will generate $650,000 in local
tax revenue and will employ 75 to 100
people. Many of those people are lit-
erally unemployed now while waiting
for this project to begin. This project is
a big deal for my home city of Santa
Fe.
Do you know why the project is
stalled? Sarcon can’t get the necessary
approval from the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration because of the Trump
shutdown, as the FAA personnel who
are responsible for its approval are fur-
loughed.
This shutdown has real consequences
for real people, especially for people
like those unemployed New Mexicans
who are ready and eager to work but
who are unable to because of our Presi-
dent’s tantrum. The President says he
can ‘‘relate’’ to Federal workers who
can’t pay bills during the shutdown,
but in the next breath, he blithely as-
sumes they will ‘‘make adjustments’’
and be fine.
As he has demonstrated time and
again, this President cannot and does
not relate to the struggles of everyday
Americans who are hurt by his policies.
He cannot and does not relate to Fed-
eral employees who live paycheck to
paycheck or to Santa Fe construction
workers who wait anxiously to get
back to work. He has shown us time
and again that his policies and behav-
ior are heartless and that he is unfit
for the office he holds. I will say it
again. The President told the American
people on camera that he is ‘‘proud to
shut down the government.’’ The re-
sponsibility falls squarely on him and
now on his Republican collaborators in
the Senate.
The impacts reach every corner of
our Nation. His shutdown has already
had real impacts on our Nation’s public
lands, including our most iconic na-
tional parks.
Many national parks, such as Ban-
delier National Monument and Valles
Caldera National Preserve in New Mex-
ico, remain closed. Restrooms have
been closed for 2 weeks, trash has accu-
mulated, and roads have not been
plowed. For 2 weeks, we have heard
horror stories of poor sanitation and
public safety issues at national parks
because of the shutdown, including
overflowing toilets, vandalism, and
other resource damage. In Big Bend
National Park, because of the lack of
emergency services, Good Samaritans
had to rescue a hiker who fell and
broke his leg while hiking on Christ-
mas Eve.
In fact, the effects have been so dev-
astating that, in a legally questionable
move, this administration just made
the unprecedented decision to dip into
the park’s entrance fees to fund basic
services at a handful of parks across
the country. These are fees that Con-
gress authorizes the Park Service to
collect to pay for deferred maintenance
projects and other critical needs, not
to take the place of appropriated funds.
We still don’t know which parks will be
affected by the administration’s deci-
sion, but I fully expect this bandaid ap-
proach to fall far short of protecting
our treasured national resources or re-
storing services to the public in a
meaningful way. It is merely a cynical
attempt to get the problems caused by
the President’s shutdown off the front
page of the newspaper.
If we want to reopen the parks, there
is a simple solution: Pass the Interior
appropriations bill without delay, and
we can reopen the entire National Park
System. In the meantime, reopening
some park sites but not others will not
help many gateway communities that
depend on parks and public lands to
provide needed revenue and that are
facing economic crisis as this shutdown
wears on.
The National Parks Conservation As-
sociation estimates that in January,
visitors spent an average of $20 million
per day in nearby communities. That is
real and vital revenue. In New Mexico
alone, national parks generated more
than 1,700 jobs in 2017 and created more
than $140 million in economic output
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.010 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S42 January 8, 2019
for my State. I can tell you that New
Mexico can’t afford for these sites to be
closed.
It is not just the parks that are at
risk. Fire prevention programs funded
by the U.S. Forest Service are being
deferred during the shutdown, despite a
recordbreaking fire season. Environ-
mental protection programs are suf-
fering. EPA has halted most activities
related to hazardous waste cleanups
under its national Superfund Program.
Enforcement activities against pol-
luters have ground to a halt, as have
Federal permitting efforts. States
aren’t receiving funds to operate their
regulatory programs.
Even our Nation’s cherished national
museums are shuttered. On January 2,
the Smithsonian ran out of funds and
closed its doors, preventing more than
110,000 visitors a day from accessing its
prized collections. Its next-door neigh-
bor, the National Gallery of Art, is also
closed, leaving school groups, families,
and everyday citizens out in the cold.
Again, there is a simple solution to
stop this damage. All we have to do is
pass an appropriations bill and reopen
the government.
I want to end where I began. The
President has nothing to be ‘‘proud’’ of
here. President Trump needs to stop
holding Federal programs hostage to
his demands for a wasteful, ineffective,
and destructive wall and end this shut-
down now. We can do it easily. The
Senate can immediately take up and
pass H.R. 21—the appropriations bill
passed by the House last week. This
should cause no controversy. These are
bills drafted by Republicans with broad
bipartisan support. In fact, the Interior
bill is the exact same legislation that
was passed by this Chamber by a vote
of 92 to 6 last August—a margin that
would override a veto of the bill, I
might add.
I call on Leader MCCONNELL and
Members of his party to let us get to
work. We need to do what is right and
immediately take up and pass the
House bill today. There is no reason
this shutdown must go on one day
longer. The lives and livelihoods of ev-
eryday Americans hang in the balance.
As a final comment, I will say that I
so much appreciate working with Sen-
ator LEAHY, who is vice chairman of
the Appropriations Committee and who
I know feels, sees, and hears from all of
his Appropriations members how con-
cerning this situation is.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the Ap-
propriations Committee has worked ex-
tremely hard to get these bills
through. We passed them almost unani-
mously. Every single bill to keep this
government open has been passed by
this Senate or the Senate Appropria-
tions Committee and will be passed
again if Republicans allow it to come
to a vote. They passed almost unani-
mously out of committee. Senator
SHELBY and I worked very, very hard to
have bipartisan bills, and we did. I
think the appropriations bills have had
more bipartisan votes than they have
had in over 20 years.
Now, where are we? We are on the
18th day of the Trump shutdown. For
more than 2 weeks now, the President
has withheld the paychecks of more
than 800,000 Americans. He has held
them hostage in order to extort Con-
gress into funding his border wall—a
wall for which he gave his word to the
American taxpayers over and over
again that Mexico would pay for, not
the American taxpayers. Now he says: I
want the American taxpayers to pay
for it.
For more than 2 weeks, the President
has withheld vital government services
from the American people in order to
gain leverage to fulfill a divisive cam-
paign promise and rally his base. He
has totally ignored that we had passed
the bills that would reopen the govern-
ment. Shamefully, he cares more about
this cynical bumper sticker symbol of
his Presidency than he does about the
millions of Americans impacted by his
shutdown or the hardships to come if
the Trump shutdown continues. He
wants rhetoric, not reality. I want re-
ality.
I ask, what will the President say to
the 800,000 Federal workers who will
not get a paycheck this Friday because
of this political stunt? What will he
say to the men and women who have
mortgages, families to feed, and bills
to pay? What will he say to those
forced to deplete their hard-earned sav-
ings or retirement funds or to those
who have no safety net at all?
I will give an example. Just yester-
day, a man called my office. He has a
job with the Internal Revenue Service
in Vermont. He has been furloughed.
He will not receive a paycheck this
week. He fears he will not be able to
pay his bills past mid-January if he
does not get paid. He has already
turned off the cable and most of his
family’s cell services to save money.
He is concerned about feeding his fam-
ily, and his wife has serious medical
issues that require attention. Inciden-
tally, I was looking at the weather re-
port for parts of Vermont. Tomorrow,
it will be 5 degrees below zero. He also
has to heat his home in that weather.
So he was upset, he was worried, and he
was looking for help.
Does the President even care about
these people? The President claims he
can relate to them, but he dismisses
their fears, glibly saying they will
‘‘make adjustments.’’ Make adjust-
ments for their child’s medical bills?
Make adjustments for their mortgage
payments? Make adjustments for heat-
ing their homes when it is 5 degrees
below zero? He even absurdly claims
they support his silly wall. Really?
Really? Come on. There are 800,000 Fed-
eral employees who are affected by the
Trump Shutdown. Let somebody poll
them and find out how many support
what many in Vermont have called a
‘‘dumb wall.’’ I have never heard any-
thing more tone-deaf from a President
of the United States of America.
Perhaps for a man who was made a
millionaire by his father at the age of
8, the idea of living paycheck to pay-
check is a foreign concept, but it is not
to the millions of Americans—both Re-
publicans and Democrats alike—across
this country who struggle to make
ends meet. They should not be bar-
gaining chips in the President’s game.
This is not a game for them, and the
President should not treat it as such.
In fact, in addition to all of the Fed-
eral employees who are wondering
when they will get their next pay-
check, vital services on which many
Americans rely and have paid taxes to
support have come to a grinding halt.
Remember that. Americans have paid
taxes for these services, and they have
come to a grinding halt.
Farmers can’t get loans from the
U.S. Department of Agriculture—
USDA—to get them through the next
planting season because no one is in
the office to process the applications.
We passed a 5-year farm bill. I am
proud of the bipartisan bill that Sen-
ator ROBERTS and Senator STABENOW
led through the Senate. I was one of
the conferees on that farm bill, and it
was bipartisan. It is complicated, and
there are new rules in it, but the USDA
cannot implement the new farm bill
because all of the staff have been fur-
loughed. How about all of the mid-
western farmers who don’t know what
the rules are going to be before they
start planting? They have to make
that decision now. They paid their
taxes to have the Department of Agri-
culture to help them, but it is closed
now.
Our national parks—the prize of this
country since the time of Teddy Roo-
sevelt—are being vandalized and lit-
tered with trash and human waste.
Since the Trump shutdown began,
seven people have died in national
parks. The parks were left unsuper-
vised and unstaffed.
Homebuyers are finding out that
their Federal Housing Administration
loan applications are on hold.
Food safety inspections are slowing.
How many people are going to die of
food poisoning?
The Small Business Administration
has stopped issuing new business loans,
and our Federal courts are running out
of money.
This is the United States of America.
We are an embarrassment to the rest of
the world because of this. The Presi-
dent should be embarrassed because he
is the one who has asked for the Trump
Shutdown.
Everyone agrees that we need to se-
cure our borders, but there are smart
ways to do it. A wall is not one of
them. It is a 5th-century solution to a
21st-century problem. In 2015, the
President’s own acting Chief of Staff
said that the idea of a wall was ‘‘absurd
and almost childish.’’ He said that a
‘‘fence doesn’t stop anybody who really
wants to get across . . . you go under,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.011 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S43
January 8, 2019
you go around, you go through it.’’ It
may be one of the few times Mick
Mulvaney and I are in agreement.
To do what the President wants to do
would require seizing land from ranch-
ers and farmers. Some of these ranch-
ers and farmers have had that land in
their families for years. They are
proud, hard-working, taxpaying Ameri-
cans, and we say that we are going to
come in with a wall through their land.
It would require building walls through
wildlife refuges and nature preserves.
It would forever scar the landscape and
ecosystem of the southwest border in
ways we cannot anticipate. After all of
that and billions of wasted taxpayer
dollars, what would we have accom-
plished?
Tonight, the President will assert
that the security of our Nation is in
crisis. He will assert that criminals and
drugs are pouring across the border.
But his claims are not grounded in
fact. That is typical of the claims he
makes. The disinformation coming
from the White House has been stag-
gering.
In his zeal to feign a national emer-
gency at the border, the President has
employed nothing short of a propa-
ganda campaign like we have seen in
dictatorships of the past.
The reality is that between the year
2000 and 2018, apprehensions at the bor-
der have dropped. How much? They
have dropped by 75 percent. The reality
is that apprehensions at the southwest
border have dropped to similar levels
we had in the 1970s. It has dropped.
The reality is, many southern border
communities have violent crime rates
that are lower than the national Amer-
ican average. The reality, according to
the Drug Enforcement Administration,
is that the vast majority of drugs ap-
prehended at the border are seized at
ports of entry so a wall between such
ports would be entirely useless at stop-
ping drugs.
The demographic that is increasing
in number are families—women and
children—seeking asylum. Many are
not even trying to sneak past the Bor-
der Patrol; they present themselves to
Border Patrol agents when they cross.
They are not here to perpetuate vio-
lence; they are fleeing violence, they
are fleeing murder, they are fleeing
rape, they are fleeing crime from their
countries. Wasting billions of Amer-
ican taxpayer dollars to build a wall
will not stop them from coming. We
need comprehensive immigration re-
form—like the bipartisan bill the Sen-
ate passed in 2013—and smart foreign
policy to address these issues, not
fearmongering, not distortions, not
lies, and certainly not thousands of
miles of concrete or steel.
The Constitution vests the power of
the purse to Congress. It is our job to
be good stewards of taxpayer dollars. A
border wall doesn’t meet that thresh-
old. Even if it did, the President has
never provided us with a detailed plan
for how he would spend the money, and
he has been all over the map about how
much he is demanding. The only thing
he has said is: We are going to have a
wall, and Mexico will pay for it. Fine,
let Mexico pay for it. For someone who
spent years as the host of a reality TV
show, reality has never been his strong
suit.
We are not in the business of pro-
viding blank checks to satisfy Presi-
dential whims. The President’s own
budget request to Congress was $1.6 bil-
lion for the wall, and he has never sub-
mitted an addendum. No matter how
much he or others talk about it, he
never has. Instead, he makes demands
by tweets and through the press. I have
lost track of all the times his demands
for the wall have changed, but I still go
back to the original request. The only
request in his budget was $1.6 billion.
This weekend, Democrats asked the
Vice President for more details on
their border wall request. The adminis-
tration sent Chairman SHELBY and me
a letter asking for $7 billion in border
security investments that the Presi-
dent is demanding as part of this nego-
tiation, including $5.7 billion for the
wall. This letter came out of nowhere 3
months into the fiscal year and 18 days
into the shutdown, and it did not come
from the President, it came from the
Acting Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget. I think I may
have that letter. They are asking for
$5.6 billion more for the Department of
Homeland Security than they proposed
in their original budget request, in-
cluding an additional $4.1 billion for
the wall. This came up this weekend,
but the letter included no budget jus-
tification, no details, and no sugges-
tions for how to pay for it. The letter
has a lot of cliches but does not say
where the money comes from or what
it is going to do. That is not the way
we operate. It should not be the way we
operate.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the letter be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESI-
DENT, OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT
AND BUDGET,
Washington, DC, January 6, 2019.
Hon. PATRICK LEAHY,
Vice Chairman, Committee on Appropriations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR LEAHY: The President con-
tinues to stress the need to pass legislation
that will both reopen the Federal Govern-
ment and address the security and humani-
tarian crisis at our Nation’s Southwest bor-
der. The Administration has previously
transmitted budget proposals that would
support his ongoing commitment to dramati-
cally reduce the entry of illegal immigrants,
criminals, and drugs; keep out terrorists,
public safety threats, and those otherwise in-
admissible under U.S. law; and ensure that
those who do enter without legal permission
can be promptly and safely returned home.
Appropriations bills for fiscal year (FY)
2019 that have already been considered by
the current and previous Congresses are in-
adequate to fully address these critical
issues. Any agreement for the current year
should satisfy the following priorities:
Border Wall, Customs and Border Protec-
tion (CBP): The President requests $5.7 bil-
lion for construction of a steel barrier for
the Southwest border. Central to any strat-
egy to achieve operational control along the
southern border is physical infrastructure to
provide requisite impedance and denial. In
short, a physical barrier—wall—creates an
enduring capability that helps field per-
sonnel stop, slow down and/or contain illegal
entries. In concert with the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, CBP has increased its capacity
to execute these funds. The Administration’s
full request would fund construction of a
total of approximately 234 miles of new phys-
ical barrier and fully fund the top 10 prior-
ities in CBP’s Border Security Improvement
Plan. This would require an increase of $4.1
billion over the FY 2019 funding level in the
Senate version of the bill.
Immigration Judge Teams—Executive Of-
fice for Immigration Review (EOIR): The
President requests at least $563 million for 75
additional Immigration Judges and support
staff to reduce the backlog of pending immi-
gration cases. The Administration appre-
ciates that the Senate’s FY 2019 bill provides
this level of funding, and looks forward to
working with the Congress on further in-
creases in this area to facilitate an expan-
sion of in-country processing of asylum
claims.
Law Enforcement Personnel, Border Patrol
Agent Hiring, CBP: The President requests
$211 million to hire 750 additional Border Pa-
trol Agents in support of his promise to keep
our borders safe and secure. While the Sen-
ate’s FY 2019 bill supports some Border Pa-
trol Agent hiring, fulfilling this request re-
quires an increase of $100 million over the
FY 2019 funding level in the Senate version
of the bill.
Law Enforcement Personnel, Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE): The Presi-
dent requests $571 million for 2,000 additional
law enforcement personnel, as well as sup-
port staff, who enforce our U.S. immigration
laws and help address gang violence, smug-
gling and trafficking, and the spread of drugs
in our communities. This would require an
increase of $571 million over the FY 2019
funding level in the Senate version of the
bill.
Detention Beds, ICE: The President re-
quests $4.2 billion to support 52,000 detention
beds. Given that in recent months, the num-
ber of people attempting to cross the border
illegally has risen to 2,000 per day, providing
additional resources for detention and trans-
portation is essential. This would require an
increase of $798 million over the FY 2019
funding level in the Senate version of the
bill.
Humanitarian Needs: The President re-
quests an additional $800 million to address
urgent humanitarian needs. This includes
additional funding for enhanced medical sup-
port, transportation, consumable supplies
appropriate for the population, and addi-
tional temporary facilities for processing
and short-term custody of this vulnerable
population, which are necessary to ensure
the well-being of those taken into custody.
Counter-narcotics/weapons Technology:
Beyond these specific budgetary requests,
the Administration looks forward to working
with Congress to provide resources in other
areas to address the unprecedented chal-
lenges we face along the Southwest border.
Specifically, $675 million would provide Non-
Intrusive Inspection (NII) technology at in-
bound lanes at U.S. Southwest Border Land
Ports of Entry (LPOE) would allow CBP to
deter and detect more contraband, including
narcotics, weapons, and other materials that
pose nuclear and radiological threats. This
would require an increase of $631 million
over the FY 2019 funding level in the Senate
version of the bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.012 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S44 January 8, 2019
In addition, to address the humanitarian
crisis of unaccompanied alien children
(UACs), Democrats have proposed in-country
asylum processing for Central American Mi-
nors. This would require a statutory change,
along with reallocation of State Department
funds to establish in-country processing ca-
pacities at Northern Triangle consulates and
embassies. Furthermore, for the new proce-
dure to achieve the desired humanitarian re-
sult, a further corresponding statutory
change would be required to ensure that
those who circumvent the process and come
to the United States without authorization
can be promptly returned home. Without the
latter change, in-country processing will not
reduce the unauthorized flow or successfully
mitigate the humanitarian crisis.’’
These upfront investments in physical bar-
riers and technology, as well as legislation
to close loopholes in our immigration sys-
tem, will reduce illegal immigration, the
flow of illicit drugs entering our country and
reduce the long term costs for border and im-
migration enforcement activities.
The Administration looks forward to ad-
vancing these critical priorities as part of
legislation to reopen the Government.
Sincerely,
RUSSELL T. VOUGHT,
Acting Director.
Mr. LEAHY. The President may not
care about the impact the shutdown is
having on millions of Americans, but
the U.S. Senate—a body that should be
the conscience of the Nation—should
care. Stoking fear through misinforma-
tion in order to promote a political
agenda is simply wrong. We could and
should reopen the government this
week.
Last week, the House passed a bipar-
tisan, six-bill minibus to reopen most
of the government and a continuing
resolution for the Department of
Homeland Security. To show how bi-
partisan it is, the six appropriations
bills the House passed originated in the
Republican-controlled Senate last Con-
gress and had bipartisan support, in-
cluding by Senator SHELBY as chair-
man and by myself as vice chairman of
the Appropriations Committee.
I worked hard with Senator SHELBY—
and I admire his efforts—to produce
these bills last summer and fall, and all
of them received nearly unanimous
support when they were considered on
the floor of the Senate or in the Appro-
priations Committee. Senator MCCON-
NELL should bring them to the floor of
the U.S. Senate today and put them up
for a vote. We have already shown vir-
tually every Republican and every
Democrat in this body will vote for
them.
Bring them up. Let’s vote for them.
End this nonsense. End it. The leader
owes that to the American people. We
owe that to the American people. Let
us be the conscience of the Nation, not
an institution that is simply a foil for
the latest tweet or posting. We can do
it. We have passed these bills before.
Bring them up. Bring them up. Bring
them up, and pass them again. Repub-
licans and Democrats have voted for
them in the past. The Republican
chairman and I strongly support them.
Bring them up. Bring them up. Bring
them up and pass them and open the
government and let 800,000 Americans
stop their suffering.
I yield the floor.
I see the Senator seeking recogni-
tion, so I withhold my request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Carolina.
CONGRATULATING THE CLEMSON TIGERS
Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I will
be quick. I know we have a lot to do be-
fore we vote, but if you are from South
Carolina, you have a lot to be happy
about today. If you watched the foot-
ball game last night, I thought you saw
a real display of college football.
I am a South Carolina graduate. I
went to the University of South Caro-
lina. I have lived near Clemson most of
my life, and I am here to congratulate
the Clemson Tigers because after last
night, the Clemson Tigers have become
the gold standard for college football,
both on and off the field.
What I like most about Clemson is,
they believe you can’t win on the field
if you lose off the field, and it starts at
the top. Coach Swinney is the very def-
inition of ‘‘all in’’—with his family, his
faith, his coaches and staff and his
dedication and loyalty to his current
and former players. He is one of the
most beloved men I have ever met in
the coaching profession. His players
understand that he cares about them,
and when he pushes them, it is only be-
cause he wants them to be the best
they can be and the best the team can
be.
Clemson University is not a football
school, for those who are wondering. It
is one of the top-tiered, academically
challenging public universities in the
entire country—and it is not bragging
if it is true—which happens to have a
great football team and a great coach.
To those who don’t want to see
Clemson versus Alabama part 5, I can
understand that. I have some advice for
you. Get better and beat one of them.
Don’t complain. These are the two best
teams in the Nation.
To my friends from Alabama, your
program is going to go down as one of
the most historic programs in the his-
tory of college football, but last night,
the best team in the Nation was the
Clemson Tigers. They won decisively.
They won with class. The 2018 season
will be remembered as long as there is
a Clemson University.
I live 5 miles from the stadium. I
grew up in the shadow of Clemson Uni-
versity. I got an honorary degree from
Clemson. That is about the only way I
would have ever gotten a degree. I am
very proud of what Clemson University
has accomplished on and off the field.
TIM and I will be introducing a resolu-
tion recognizing this great accomplish-
ment by the Clemson Tigers.
I just want to end with this. In these
troubled times, when there is a lot
going on in the world, and there is a lot
of bad news, this is a chance to cele-
brate something very positive. Amer-
ica is a football country, and college
football is one of our most beloved
sports. Last night, you saw two quality
teams. I can say, without a doubt, if
you are going to follow college foot-
ball, get to know the Clemson Tigers
because you are going to see them
again. Go Tigers.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Colorado.
S. 1
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, to my
colleague from South Carolina, Sen-
ator GRAHAM, we will challenge the
Clemson Tigers to the NCAA skiing
championship anytime.
I rise to speak about the bill we are
working on today, S. 1, Strengthening
America’s Security in the Middle East
Act.
I am proud to be a sponsor of this
legislation, along with Senator RUBIO
and Senator RISCH. I commend Chair-
man RISCH for working with the major-
ity leader in attempting to move this
important legislation and effort with-
out delay.
I think it is important to recognize
that this bill combines four non-
controversial pieces of legislation from
the 115th Congress that are intended to
support our strong allies, Israel and
Jordan, and to impose sanctions
against the gross human rights abuses
of the Assad regime in Syria.
We have no stronger ally in the Mid-
dle East than the State of Israel. Israel
has proven itself to be a resilient bea-
con of democratic values, despite fac-
ing existential threats daily since its
founding in 1948.
Our two nations have worked closely
to fight terrorism, to stop the spread of
radical Islamist extremism, and to pre-
vent nuclear and chemical weapons
proliferation by rogue regimes, such as
Syria and Iran. The legislation before
us today simply reaffirms our strong
support for Israel, including $3.3 billion
per year in annual U.S. security assist-
ance, consistent with the 10-year U.S.-
Israel memorandum of understanding,
which was signed in 2016 by President
Obama.
In the 115th Congress, 72 Senators—72
Senators, Republicans and Demo-
crats—cosponsored this legislation. It
passed in the Senate unanimously on
August 1, 2018. There is no reason why
my colleagues across the aisle should
not support this legislation today—no
reason—in order to show our strong bi-
partisan support to our friend and ally,
Israel, at a time of great need.
This package also includes provisions
supporting State governments that
have taken action against the anti-
Israel and anti-Semitic movement
known as Boycott, Divestment, and
Sanctions, or BDS. To date, 26 States—
including my home State of Colorado—
have adopted laws or executive orders
against BDS. This legislation before us
today simply endorses those decisions
and clarifies that these measures
adopted or enforced by a State or local
government are not preempted by any
Federal law if they comply with the re-
quirements in the legislation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.004 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S45
January 8, 2019
This anti-BDS legislation had 48 bi-
partisan cosponsors in the 115th Con-
gress. There is no reason it should not
be passed with bipartisan support
today.
BDS is a vile movement—a vile
movement—and should be vociferously
opposed by Republicans, Democrats,
and everyone alike. This is why, on De-
cember 20, I led a letter, with 14 of my
Senate colleagues, to the majority
leader and the minority leader to take
immediate action against BDS.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that this letter be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, December 20, 2018.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Senate Majority Leader,
The Capitol, Washington, DC.
Hon. CHARLES SCHUMER,
Senate Minority Leader,
The Capitol, Washington, DC.
DEAR LEADERS MCCONNELL AND SCHUMER:
We write today to bring to your attention a
disturbing development concerning the anti-
Israel and anti-Semitic movement known as
Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS).
Regrettably, in recent days, future members
of the U.S. House of Representatives have
publicly expressed support for this extreme
movement.
We urge you to issue a joint statement
publicly condemning BDS and to prioritize
legislative efforts in the next session of Con-
gress to counter this destructive trend. We
note there were bipartisan legislative ef-
forts, including the Combating BDS Act (S.
170) and the Israel Anti-Boycott Act (S. 720),
which were introduced in the 115th Congress.
Israel is our country’s most steadfast ally
in a highly volatile region of the world. The
State of Israel has proven itself to be a resil-
ient beacon of democratic values, despite
facing existential threats daily since its
founding in 1948. Working closely together,
our two countries have worked to fight ter-
rorism, to stop the spread of radical Islamist
ideologies, and to prevent nuclear and chem-
ical weapons proliferation by rogue regimes,
such as Syria and the Islamic Republic of
Iran.
As then-President Barack Obama stated in
his speech in Jerusalem on March 21, 2013:
‘‘Israel has established a thriving democracy
with a spirited civil society, proud political
parties, a tireless free press, and a lively
public debate—lively may even be an under-
statement. And Israel has achieved this even
as it has overcome relentless threats to its
security—through the courage of the Israel
Defense Forces, and a citizenry that is resil-
ient in the face of terror.’’
Simply put, the BDS movement seeks to
de-legitimize the State of Israel and its peo-
ple. Senator Schumer, as you so eloquently
stated on March 6, 2018: ‘‘We must continue
to stand firm against the profoundly biased
campaign to delegitimize the State of Israel
through [BDS] . . . While Iran publicly exe-
cutes its citizens, Turkey jails its journal-
ists, scores of Arab nations punish homosex-
uality with imprisonment and torture, why
does BDS single Israel out alone for con-
demnation?’’
It is disheartening to see future members
of Congress take a position on BDS that is
not only highly biased, but contrary to fun-
damental facts and detrimental to U.S. na-
tional security interests. We therefore re-
spectfully urge you to immediately condemn
these comments and to show bipartisan sup-
port for our ally Israel.
Sincerely,
Cory Gardner, Lindsey Graham, Marco
Rubio, Chuck Grassley, Ted Cruz,
Susan M. Collins, Jon Kyl, John
Hoeven, Steve Daines, John Thune,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Roger Wicker,
James E. Risch, David Perdue, Tim
Scott.
Mr. GARDNER. In that letter, we
asked for immediate bipartisan re-
sponse against BDS, including moving
today’s legislation forward. In that let-
ter, we quote the minority leader, Sen-
ator SCHUMER, when he spoke at the
annual American-Israel Public Affairs
Committee conference just this past
March. Less than a year ago, here is
what Senator SCHUMER told the audi-
ence at AIPAC on March 5, 2018:
[W]e must continue to stand firm against
the profoundly biased campaign to
delegitimize the State of Israel through
[boycotts, divestment, and sanctions].
While Iran publicly executes its citizens,
Turkey jails its journalists, scores of Arab
nations punish homosexuality with impris-
onment and torture, why does BDS single
Israel out alone for condemnation?
When there is such a double standard,
when the world treats everybody one way
and the Jew or the Jewish State another
way, there’s only one word for it: anti-Semi-
tism. Let us call out the BDS movement for
what it is. Let us delegitimize the
delegitimizers by letting the world know
when there is a double standard. Whether
they know it or not, they are actively par-
ticipating in an anti-Semitic movement.
Those are the words of the Demo-
cratic minority leader in March of 2018.
I completely agree with Senator SCHU-
MER. Yet today I understand that he
and Members of his caucus plan to vote
against the motion to proceed on bipar-
tisan legislation that would condemn
BDS. It is regrettable. It is unfortu-
nate. It is horrible.
It is also part of a new and disturbing
trend that we see from some of our col-
leagues in the Democratic caucus. As
we noted in our letter, several Mem-
bers of the House of Representatives
have now publicly endorsed BDS and
have not been condemned by Senator
SCHUMER and other Democratic lead-
ers. We saw the manifestation of this
dangerous trend 2 days ago, when a
Democratic Representative issued a
statement alleging that the Senators
who introduced the bill before us
today, myself included, forget what
country they represent. This is a rep-
rehensible charge of dual loyalty ut-
terly unbefitting of a sitting Member
of Congress, and we all need to come
together to condemn such vile insinu-
ations.
I am glad to see that respected, non-
partisan organizations, like the Amer-
ican Jewish Committee, AJC, have now
issued strong statements rebuking this
Democratic Member of Congress.
The AJC statement reads in part:
AJC is outraged at the tweet posted by
[the Representative] that U.S. senators who
had introduced Israel-related legislation
‘‘forgot what country they represent.’’
That assertion, which completely avoids
legitimate debate about the content of the
bill itself, insinuates that a number of re-
spected, long-serving senators are somehow
more loyal to Israel than they are to the
United States.
The charge evokes classical anti-Semitic
tropes about dual loyalty—in this case ap-
plied to some lawmakers who are not even
Jewish—that have no place in our political
discourse.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the RECORD the
statement from AJC dated January 7,
2019.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
AJC OUTRAGED BY REP. TLAIB’S TWEET
(Jan. 7, 2019)
NEW YORK.—AJC is outraged at the tweet
posted by Representative Rashida Tlaib (D–
MI) claiming that U.S. senators who had in-
troduced Israel-related legislation ‘‘forgot
what country they represent.’’ That asser-
tion, which completely avoids legitimate de-
bate about the content of the bill itself, in-
sinuates that a number of respected, long-
serving senators are somehow more loyal to
Israel than they are to the United States.
The charge evokes classical anti-Semitic
tropes about dual loyalty—in this case ap-
plied to some lawmakers who are not even
Jewish—that have no place in our political
discourse. Ironically, it was Representative
Tlaib who took the unusual step of wrapping
herself in a foreign flag upon winning elec-
tion to Congress, and who said she would
serve as ‘‘a voice for’’ another nation in the
House of Representatives.
Her ad hominem attack on congressional
colleagues joins a growing list of troubling
statements by the newly elected member, in-
cluding her rejection of a two-state solution
to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
AJC calls on Rep. Tlaib to apologize for
her offensive remarks.
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I be-
lieve this body can do different, so I
ask my colleagues to put politics aside
and vote yes on the motion to proceed
to this legislation that will help en-
hance our national security and will
take strong action against a reprehen-
sible and racist movement known as
BDS.
I know there are some who believe we
should shut down the Senate because of
the current funding situation in the
Federal Government, but let me re-
mind Members of this Chamber that in
2013, under Democratic Majority Lead-
er Harry Reid, what was voted on dur-
ing the shutdown in 2013—here it is—a
bill to authorize the Secretary of the
Interior to take actions to implement
the agreement between the United
States of America and the United
Mexican States concerning transbound-
ary hydrocarbon reservoirs in the Gulf
of Mexico. Somehow, in 2013, it was OK
to find time for that measure.
While complaining about finding
time for other measures right now,
during the shutdown in 2013, they found
time to address the Security Clearance
Oversight and Reform Enhancement
Act. They found time for the Small
Airplane Revitalization Act. They
found time to ensure that any new or
revised requirement providing for the
screening, testing, or treatment of in-
dividuals operating commercial motor
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.015 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S46 January 8, 2019
vehicles for sleep disorders is adopted
pursuant to a rulemaking proceeding
and for other purposes. Now they don’t
want to bring up anti-BDS legislation
because we shouldn’t be talking about
anything else, but in 2013, they had
time to vote on and to consider things
like extending the period during which
Iraqis who are employed by the U.S.
Government in Iraq may be granted
special immigrant status and tempo-
rarily increasing the fee or surcharge
for processing machine-readable non-
immigrant visas.
I am not downplaying the importance
of these bills. I am saying that there
seems to be a significant double stand-
ard and a significant partisan double
standard because what is being com-
plained about today is the same thing
that was fine in 2013—had time to vote
on a couple of district judges as well,
but now there is no time for that.
People are saying we shouldn’t vote
on this legislation until the govern-
ment is funded. I have said it very
clearly—we need to fund the govern-
ment. What also needs to be very clear
is how people will vote on this legisla-
tion, to not hide behind the shutdown
how they would vote on anti-BDS legis-
lation.
We have heard the rhetoric. We have
heard the very real comments from not
fictitious Members of Congress but
from actual Members of Congress who
support an anti-Semitic movement. We
can condemn it today with a simple
vote to proceed. If people don’t want to
take too much time to debate it, I
think everybody knows that it is right
to support an anti-BDS position. They
know it is right to oppose Assad and
his chemical attacks and the other tor-
turous actions he has taken against his
own people. It is a pretty simple vote
on this motion to proceed—vote yes;
support the underlying legislation. Bi-
partisan Members, Republicans and
Democrats, just last year supported
this legislation, voted for this legisla-
tion, and I hope they will not let par-
tisan politics get in the way of doing
what is right.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, we
are now in day 18 of an unnecessary
and shameful government shutdown. I
am proud to be joined on the floor by
my colleague and partner, the senior
Senator from Maryland, BEN CARDIN,
Senator TIM KAINE and Senator WAR-
NER from Virginia, and many of my
colleagues, to say loud and clear that
the first order of business in this Sen-
ate should be to reopen the Federal
Government because every day that
goes by, more and more Americans are
losing access to important government
services, 800,000 hard-working Federal
employees are going without pay and
facing mounting monthly bills, 400,000-
plus are working without pay to help
protect our country, and over 300,000
are forcibly furloughed. Small busi-
nesses that do contract work for the
government are getting clobbered, as
are the employees who work for them.
We have it within our power to vote
tonight to end this shutdown by voting
on the two bills that passed the House
of Representatives last Thursday. They
made it their first order of business,
and so should we. I have copies of those
bills.
I have a copy of H.J. Res. 1 right here
in my hand. It would reopen the Home-
land Security Department at current
levels until February 8, allowing us an
opportunity to discuss with the Presi-
dent the best and most effective ap-
proach to border security. It is iden-
tical to what this Senate passed on a
bipartisan basis just before Christmas.
The second bill that passed the
House—and I have that right here at
my desk as well—would reopen the
other eight Departments of the Federal
Government for the remainder of the
fiscal year and, importantly, at levels
that were supported in this Senate on a
bipartisan basis either through votes
on this Senate floor or in the Senate
Appropriations Committee.
Both of these bills—H.J. Res. 1 and
H.R. 21—are on the Senate calendar.
We could bring them up, and we could
vote tonight to end the government
shutdown. Then we could have a dis-
cussion with the President on the best
way to secure our borders. Let’s stop
holding the entire Nation and 800,000
hard-working Federal employees hos-
tage in a disagreement they have noth-
ing to do with.
President Trump did say that he was
going to be proud to shut down the gov-
ernment, and he did it. Every day that
goes by in this Senate without a vote
on the House bills to reopen the gov-
ernment makes this Senate more and
more complicit in the shutdown. No
Senator—no Senator—should be con-
tracting out their constitutional re-
sponsibilities and their votes to the
President of the United States. Let’s
not be an accomplice to this shutdown.
Let’s bring up the vote, bring up the
bill, vote on it now—no business-as-
usual tonight—and let’s, first of all, do
the people’s business and reopen the
government. Let’s do it now.
I am proud to now give time to Sen-
ator CARDIN, my friend, the senior Sen-
ator from Maryland.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I take
this time to support what Senator VAN
HOLLEN has said. I am here with Sen-
ators WARNER and KAINE. We have the
honor of representing Maryland and
Virginia in the Senate, where there are
so many Federal workers.
I want to underscore one point Sen-
ator VAN HOLLEN made about the two
bills that are on our calendar that
passed the House. These are not Demo-
cratic bills; these are bipartisan bills.
These are bills that passed this body
just a few weeks ago by unanimous
votes to keep government open as we
continue to negotiate on border secu-
rity. They deal with appropriations
bills that passed our Appropriations
Committees—in one case unanimously,
and in one case, all but one Senator
voted for it. So these are bipartisan
bills that have been sent over to us
from the House that have already
cleared this body once. Now we can
pass them, keep government open for
most of the agencies, and in the case of
Homeland Security, a continuing reso-
lution.
This shutdown caused by President
Trump is a disaster. It is hurting peo-
ple. In this morning’s Sun paper, there
was an article about an important eco-
nomic development project in Balti-
more City on the east side that cannot
move forward because HUD can’t proc-
ess the paperwork so it can go forward.
We are getting hurt every day.
Senator VAN HOLLEN mentioned the
800,000 Federal workers. About half are
being asked to show up and work every
day without a paycheck. The others
are being locked out and are being fur-
loughed without pay. People are get-
ting hurt.
The taxpayers of this country expect
to be able to get government services
from their agencies, and they can’t get
those services. They are being hurt.
Contractors are being hurt, small
businesses are being hurt, and our
economy is being hurt.
It makes no sense whatsoever. The
first order of business should be to take
up these two bills. Let’s put aside what
is currently pending. Let’s bring up
these two bills. We can return to that
calendar immediately thereafter. We
can do that, but let’s make sure we get
these bills passed so we can open gov-
ernment now. The Senate should not be
complicitous in the shutdown that
President Trump has caused. Let’s act
in good faith. Let’s open up govern-
ment. Let’s negotiate border security.
If we can’t get that done quickly, we
could at least have a continuing resolu-
tion and continue our debate on border
security, but don’t hold the American
people hostage. That is exactly what
the President of the United States is
trying to do.
Mr. President, I yield the floor to
Senator WARNER.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Senator KAINE
and I each be permitted to speak for up
to 5 minutes prior to the scheduled
vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I want
to join my colleagues from Maryland
and my friend, the Senator from Vir-
ginia, as well, to speak out on this
manufactured crisis.
This President is holding 800,000 Fed-
eral workers hostage, folks who are
going to work, some of them without
pay, and others who are furloughed. As
has been mentioned, this is not just af-
fecting Federal workers. Senator KAINE
and I have been talked to by a number
of contractors, small business owners.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.018 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S47
January 8, 2019
A couple of them are closing their
doors this week because they have now
gone for weeks without being paid. You
can’t put a business back together
after you have closed its doors. So
there are 800,000 Federal employees,
there are contractors, but there is a
whole slew of other folks who are al-
ready immediately affected.
The complete lack of thought this
administration had in this shutdown—
they tried to say: We are not going to
make it seem like a shutdown. We are
going to leave the parks open. Now we
see destruction going on in our parks.
We see in our State that Shenandoah
National Park has trash overfilling. We
have the battlefields where people have
engaged in inappropriate activities. We
have seen as well a whole slew of busi-
nesses that depend upon a high volume
of tourist travel during the holidays—
none of that took place.
I also wonder whether Donald Trump,
who says this is about security—well,
if it is about security, we ought to
make sure our Coast Guard is paid. We
ought to make sure our TSA agents are
paid. We are seeing dramatic numbers
of folks calling in sick, dramatically
reducing the ability to maintain secu-
rity at our airports, where, frankly,
most of our vulnerability on the border
actually takes place. That is going to
get exponentially worse after Friday
when these employees go without a
paycheck.
The fact is, these workers don’t work
for Donald Trump; they work for
America. Echoing what my colleague
said, our first order of business ought
to be making sure we get this govern-
ment reopened.
The final point I want to make is
this: The heartlessness of this Presi-
dent in his comments about our Fed-
eral workers that somehow they can
manage through without a paycheck,
that somehow they can negotiate with
their landlord if they can’t pay their
rent—rather than Donald Trump put-
ting on a political show tonight on TV
and a political trip to the border to-
morrow, I invite the President to come
anywhere in Virginia, Maryland, or the
District and sit down with Federal em-
ployees and explain this crisis and why
they are not getting paid.
So my hope is that, echoing what our
Senators from Maryland have said, the
Senate shouldn’t be complicit in this.
We need to reopen the government. If
we want to negotiate additional border
security, I am all for it, but not hold-
ing hostage, literally, our Federal em-
ployees and countless others.
I yield to the Senator from Virginia.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, before I
begin, I ask unanimous consent that
following my remarks, Senator RISCH
be permitted to speak for up to 5 min-
utes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, tonight
following this vote, Senator SHAHEEN
and I have organized a group of more
than 15 Democrats who will take the
floor to talk about the effect of the
government shutdown in each of our
States. We will talk about the effect on
workers, on families, and on citizens
needing services. I don’t want to repeat
what I will say in about an hour, but I
want to address the issue of the vote
that is now coming before us.
The vote is a vote to proceed to a
number of issues that are important to
the security of other nations. I am the
cosponsor of one of bills that is before
us—a U.S.-Israel security assistance
bill—and strongly, strongly support it,
but as passionate as I have been for the
security of the nation of Israel, I am
every bit as passionate about the secu-
rity of the United States, and I think
the first business of this Senate should
be to reopen the Government of the
United States.
I think to take any other action or to
focus on any other issue when we have
bipartisan bills pending in the Senate
that have been supported by our Re-
publican colleagues that would reopen
government—to skip by those bills and
push them aside for another 18 days or
longer—makes absolutely no sense.
So I will be opposing the motion that
is on the floor this evening because the
first business of this body should be to
reopen government.
I think of the question that Abraham
Lincoln raised at Gettysburg. He
talked about this Nation dedicated to
the proposition that all are created
equal and the question about whether
any nation dedicated to that propo-
sition can long endure. I don’t think
President Lincoln, the founder of the
modern Republican Party, would have
supported a government shutdown for a
year, for a week, for a day, or for a
minute. This issue that is on the table
before us is about the endurance of the
United States Government and giving
people confidence in us that we support
the government’s operation.
We should not take up other items
until we take up the bipartisan pro-
posal before this body and make sure
that the government of the United
States is funded and that people are
protected.
I yield the floor.
S. 1
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President and fellow
Senators, I rise today to present S. 1,
the Strengthening America’s Security
in the Middle East Act of 2019.
It is really a compilation of three
bills, addressing three different issues
in the Middle East. It is left over from
the last Congress, the 115th.
It is fitting that the first piece of leg-
islation on the Senate floor in the
116th Congress is made up of bills that
have previously enjoyed the support of
my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle. This is a bipartisan piece of legis-
lation—all three of them that are put
together in this bill—with many Sen-
ators from both sides of the aisle hav-
ing contributed to the construction of
this bill.
We need to get this important work
done now, not in a month or two. It is
leftover business, as I said, and it is
about as unanimous as anything
around here gets.
Now, I understand that there is fric-
tion around here at the moment, as my
good friend from Virginia just talked
about. But, look, we are the U.S. Sen-
ate. We can walk and we can chew gum
at the same time.
These issues that are in this bill des-
perately need our attention, and it is
disheartening to see that there is going
to be a vote against this simply be-
cause the parties want to focus on just
one issue. That isn’t the issue in front
of us. If it were, of course, we could
vote that way.
I don’t think there is anybody on this
floor that wants to see the government
shut down. There are a lot of us that
would like to see a smaller govern-
ment, a less intrusive government, and
a less regulatory government, but we
were elected to govern. We were not
elected to not govern, and it is impor-
tant that we do resolve that.
But in the meantime, we have these
important matters left over from the
last Congress, and I hope we can move
to them and get them done.
Israel and Jordan have been steadfast
allies and friends of the United States.
This legislation reaffirms our strong
friendship with these countries and ex-
tends critical aid to these two allies.
Israel and Jordan deserve the support
and cooperation that this legislation
would extend. We should not let them
down.
Also included in this legislation is
the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection
Act, which very nearly passed in the
full Senate by unanimous consent in
the closing hours and minutes of the
last Congress. There was only 1 objec-
tion to it, but 99 Senators agreed to
this act.
The Caesar bill declares that it is
U.S. policy to use all diplomatic and
economic means to compel the govern-
ment of Bashar al-Assad to stop the
slaughter of the Syrian people and to
work toward a democratic government.
Sanctions are an important tool of
U.S. foreign policy. Carefully designed
sanctions allow the United States to
create the conditions to influence deci-
sion-making and serve U.S. national
security interests without having to
implement additional military meas-
ures and put U.S. troops in harm’s way.
The sanctions method has been par-
ticularly effective in some very impor-
tant situations.
The Caesar Syria Civilian Protection
Act includes strong financial sanctions
to target those individuals responsible
in the Assad regime for the terrible
loss of life and destruction in Syria.
Further, it extends sanctions to those
who would support the Syrian regime’s
actions in the war in Syria, such as
Iran and Russia.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.020 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S48 January 8, 2019
In order for us to bring a permanent
defeat of ISIS, which necessitates get-
ting Iran out of Syria, we should en-
courage politically negotiated solu-
tions that will bring major change to
the current Syrian regime structure.
With nearly 500,000 killed in Syria,
this legislation is deserved, and it is
long overdue. We must exert maximum
pressure in coordination with our allies
and friends to bring the Syrian dic-
tator, Assad, and his Iranian friends
and their allies to account.
It is my hope that the Senate can
move to this bill and take up this im-
portant legislation with its three-
pronged approach that supports our
important allies. Let’s not let these al-
lies down.
Again, I come back to I understand
that there is some friction here on
other issues that we should be address-
ing, but right now the vote is this: Do
you or do you not support the allies
and the civilian population of Syria,
who are being slaughtered in the fash-
ion that they have?
My fellow Senators, I urge an affirm-
ative vote on this good piece of legisla-
tion.
I yield the floor.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
RUBIO). Pursuant to rule XXII, the
Chair lays before the Senate the pend-
ing cloture motion, which the clerk
will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 1, S. 1, a bill
to make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to Israel,
to reauthorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt the
wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people,
and for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Chuck Grassley, John
Barrasso, Cory Gardner, John Hoeven,
Mike Rounds, Mike Crapo, Roy Blunt,
Tom Cotton, John Boozman, John Cor-
nyn, John Thune, Roger F. Wicker,
Marco Rubio, Bill Cassidy, Shelley
Moore Capito.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the motion to
proceed to S. 1, an act to make im-
provements to certain defense and se-
curity assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to
Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
The yeas and nays resulted: yeas 56,
nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 1 Leg.]
YEAS—56
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
McConnell
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 56, the nays are 44.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn not having voted in the
affirmative, the motion is rejected.
The majority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
enter a motion to reconsider the vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mo-
tion is entered.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk on
the motion to proceed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 1, S.1, a bill
to make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to Israel,
to reauthorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt the
wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people,
and for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, John Hoeven, Roger F.
Wicker, John Cornyn, Rick Scott, Mitt
Romney, Cory Gardner, Marco Rubio,
John Thune, Chuck Grassley, Todd
Young, John Barrasso, Deb Fischer,
Lindsey Graham, Johnny Isakson,
James E. Risch, John Boozman.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Louisiana.
REMEMBERING THE VICTIMS OF THE I–75
COLLISION NEAR GAINESVILLE, FL
Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, I rise
to speak in memory of five children
from Louisiana, my home State, who
were tragically killed in an awful car
wreck last Thursday in Florida—Jere-
miah Warren, 14; Joel Cloud, 14; Cara
Descant, 13; Brieanna Descant, 10; and
Cierra Bordelon, 9 years old—all from
Marksville, LA, a small town of less
than 6,000 people.
All of the children were members of
the Avoyelles House of Mercy Church
family. They were traveling together
in a van with four other children and
three women from the House of Mercy
Church while on their way to Disney
World. A tractor-trailer that was trav-
eling in the opposite direction hit a car
that crossed the highway, hit their van
and another 18-wheeler, and created a
ball of fire. The drivers in the two trac-
tor-trailers died as well—Steve Holland
of Florida and Douglas Bolkema of New
Mexico. We include them in our pray-
ers.
Losing five children is such a dev-
astating tragedy for the Marksville
community. One can hardly imagine
the grief and shock that grips everyone
who knew them—their neighbors,
friends, family, and fellow church
members.
Pastor Eric Descant said: ‘‘I cried so
much this morning that my tears felt
like lava running out of a volcano.’’
His granddaughters Brieanna and Cara
died in the crash. His wife, Karen, is
still hospitalized.
During a Monday night vigil at
Marksville High’s stadium, Pastor Des-
cant spoke to the crowd over the PA
system by phone from Florida. He said:
‘‘I never knew a heart could break so
much and still work.’’
He also delivered an important re-
minder that even in the midst of such
immense heartache and loss, ‘‘God will
get the glory out of it.’’
He added: Don’t stop. Keep praying.
I know so many around Louisiana
and the country are doing just that.
We are also praying for the full re-
covery of those who were injured and
who are still hospitalized: Karen Des-
cant, Robyn Rattay, Amy Joffrion and
her 14-year-old son Noah, Ali Laborde
and her 11-year-old daughter Chelsea,
and two other children, 9-year-old
Trinity Woodward and 9-year-old
Chance Bernard.
We are sincerely grateful to the peo-
ple in Florida who assisted the victims
and their families—the first respond-
ers, law enforcement, everyone at
Health Shands Hospital, North Florida
Regional Medical Center, and the
Pentecostals of Gainesville.
To those around the country who
have heard about this tragedy and have
donated money through GoFundMe,
thank you for your generosity, support,
and prayers.
To my fellow Louisianans, I remind
you of what Scripture says in Psalm 34:
‘‘The Lord is near to the broken-
hearted, and saves the crushed in spir-
it.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.022 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S49
January 8, 2019
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Louisiana.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate be
in a period of morning business, with
Senators permitted to speak therein
for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
REMEMBERING THE VICTIMS OF
THE I–75 COLLISION NEAR
GAINESVILLE, FL
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I want
to take a few minutes to join my col-
league, Senator CASSIDY, to talk about
the unspeakable tragedy that happened
last Thursday near Gainesville, FL,
when a large tractor-trailer crashed
into a car, crossed into oncoming traf-
fic, and struck a church van that was
bound for Disney World.
I wish I understood why bad things
happen to good people. There were five
kids—five youngsters—from Marks-
ville, LA, who lost their lives in that
terrible collision. They were Joel Cloud
and Jeremiah Warren, both 14 years
old; Cara Descant, aged 13; Brieanna
Descant, aged 10; and Cierra Bordelon,
aged 9. These five youngsters were
members of the United Pentecostal
Church in Marksville, LA. They were
five beautiful lives, full of potential,
who were gone before their time. It is
heartbreaking, and there are, simply,
no words.
I will say it again. I wish I under-
stood why bad things happen to good
people. I can’t imagine any greater suf-
fering than a parent’s being asked to
bury a child. The love of a child is not
like the love for a parent or a spouse or
a sibling. That is deep love. Yet, as my
late father used to tell me, ‘‘Son, you
will never, ever understand love until
you have a child.’’ I can’t think of any
greater suffering than to ask a parent
to bury his or her child.
I want to tell each of these kids’ fam-
ilies, the United Pentecostal Church in
Marksville, the whole community in
Marksville, and the Avoyelles Parish
that the entire State of Louisiana
grieves with you and that you are in
our prayers.
The Marksville van was carrying
some very precious cargo. In total,
there were 12 passengers: 3 women—one
of whom is pregnant—and 9 children.
There were survivors—thank you,
Lord—but many of the survivors were
gravely injured, and I pray that they
all have a swift and full recovery.
I want to express my sympathies to
the families of the two drivers who died
in that accident. I also thank the first
responders who put themselves at risk
every day to try to save lives during
these catastrophes.
There are no words to describe this
tragic accident. It happened far too
close to the holidays, but there is never
a good time. I am going to say it again.
If I make it to Heaven, the first ques-
tion I am going to ask is, Why do bad
things happen to good people? For now,
I just pray that these families will find
the strength they need to go on and
that all the injured are healed quickly.
Thank you.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise, to-
gether with a number of colleagues
who will follow me tonight, to talk
about the need to end the Trump shut-
down and to reopen the government of
the greatest Nation on Earth. I am
glad to have so many colleagues here
who each will share the stories that
have been experienced by folks living
in our States regarding a shutdown
that has now gone on for 18 days and
will soon become the longest shutdown
in the history of the U.S. Government.
The shutdown is unnecessary, the
shutdown is embarrassing, and the
shutdown is painful. It is unnecessary.
Why punish American workers? Why
punish American citizens? No patriotic
leader in their right mind would want
to do that.
The thing that is so troubling about
this shutdown is that the over-
whelming majority of people who are
affected are not connected to the dis-
pute between Congress and the Presi-
dent over immigration reform and bor-
der security. Why should that dispute
lead to farmers not being able to reach
their extension agents? Why should
that dispute lead to small businesses
not getting their small business loan
applications processed? Why should a
dispute about immigration block the
courts of DC from issuing marriage li-
censes to people?
The President praying for, urging,
and then being proud of a shutdown is
hurting all kinds of people who are
completely unconnected with the issue
in dispute between Congress and the
President. In that sense, it is unneces-
sary.
Second, it is unnecessary because
there are bills on the floor right now
that would solve this—bills that are bi-
partisan, bills that were supported by
the Presiding Officer and other Repub-
lican colleagues in the Chamber just a
few weeks ago. If we took action right
now, we could stop the punishment. We
could end the pain—the gratuitous
pain—that is affecting American fami-
lies and workers.
The shutdown is unnecessary. The
shutdown is embarrassing. This is the
United States of America. This is the
greatest Nation on Earth. The fact that
we are in an 18-day shutdown of crit-
ical components of our government,
where people are not getting paychecks
and citizens are not being served, is be-
neath what we should aspire to as
Americans and certainly as U.S. Sen-
ators.
Finally, before I yield to my col-
league from New Hampshire, the shut-
down is painful. There are statistics
about the numbers affected during the
shutdown. Others may get into the sta-
tistics; I just want to share stories be-
cause Virginians are reaching out to
Senator WARNER and me and sharing
their stories with us.
Allen is a veteran and a Federal civil
servant in Yorktown, VA. He has been
working without pay since the shut-
down began. He wrote to our office say-
ing that his emergency savings are ex-
hausted, he is behind on his bills, and
the situation will not get any better as
long as his Agency is unfunded. I will
repeat that. Allen is a veteran who vol-
untarily served the military, this coun-
try, and this is how this President is
treating him.
Joanna is from Woodbridge, VA. She
wrote to me saying that she doesn’t
know what she will do if she doesn’t
get paid by the end of the month, as
her family ‘‘can’t afford to miss a sin-
gle paycheck.’’ She writes that ‘‘even a
slight decrease’’ in her pay means her
family cannot afford their rent.
A family from Culpeper wrote to me
wondering how they will feed their
children and pay their mortgage with-
out being paid for their service to our
government. They say that if this shut-
down goes on for a month or more,
they will have to worry about losing
their home.
Michael and Chris, two Federal em-
ployees in Annandale, have three kids,
two in college. They are going to have
to miss their kids’ tuition payments
that are due for the semester this
month. If the shutdown continues, they
are not sure whether they will be able
to make their mortgage payment.
James is a furloughed Federal em-
ployee from Fredericksburg. He says he
is the ‘‘sole breadwinner’’ for his fam-
ily. He tells me a shutdown that goes
into months would spell financial ruin
for his family and others.
A Virginian from Haymarket wrote
me and told me that her loved one is a
Federal employee who is working with-
out pay. She had to postpone a nec-
essary medical procedure because their
family could no longer cover the costs
of copays for testing and surgery.
Teresa is a Federal employee from
Springfield. She is worried about pay-
ing her mortgage, utilities, food and
more, but most of all, she is worried
about the health of her son, Tommy.
Tommy has a disability. She writes:
Because of his medical fragility,
Tommy must have numerous prescrip-
tion medications; therefore, there are
copays to pay. Missing a single dose
could land him in the ICU. President
Trump needs to stop holding Federal
employees hostage. When I start miss-
ing paychecks, Tommy is possibly
jeopardized in his own life.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.027 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S50 January 8, 2019
Finally, John—a NASA contractor
from Virginia—and his wife, who also
works for the same Agency, have lost
100 percent of their household income
since President Trump’s shutdown
started. Get this: Their daughter, who
lives at home, is a schoolteacher, and
it is their schoolteacher daughter who
is helping pay for the parents’ expenses
during this shutdown.
The shutdown is unnecessary. The
shutdown is embarrassing. The shut-
down is painful. We need to end the
Trump shutdown and reopen the gov-
ernment.
With that, I yield the floor to my col-
league from New Hampshire.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I am
pleased to join my colleague Senator
KAINE and so many others who are here
on the floor today to talk about the
hardship that has been created for so
many Americans by this government
shutdown—a government shutdown
that is wasteful, unnecessary, and to-
tally about politics.
Today is the 17th day since this par-
tisan brinkmanship shut down 9 out of
15 Departments and dozens of govern-
ment Agencies that we depend on to
protect our health and safety.
We could reopen the government’s
doors today if Senate Republicans take
up the bills that were passed by the
House—bills that were written and
overwhelmingly approved by the Re-
publican-controlled Senate just a few
weeks ago.
If there is bipartisan and bicameral
agreement on the appropriations bills,
then why has the government shut
down? Sadly, it is because the Presi-
dent wants to force American tax-
payers to foot the bill for an ineffective
and costly wall on the southern bor-
der—a wall which the President prom-
ised Mexico would pay for and which is
opposed by the majority of Americans.
Meanwhile, the men and women who
work in Agencies that protect the
American people and who protect our
borders are either not working or on
the job but not getting paid. In total,
more than 380,000 Federal employees
have been furloughed, and more than
450,000 are working without pay.
This shutdown affects the entire
country, including New Hampshire. It
is not just the thousands of Federal
workers who are affected by the shut-
down; it is also harming millions of
Americans who depend on essential
services provided by the affected Agen-
cies, people like those Senator KAINE
described.
Last Friday, I had a chance to meet
with farmers in New Hampshire who
are affected by the ongoing closure of
the Department of Agriculture’s Farm
Service Agency. They are not receiving
the essential services and loans they
need to prepare for spring planting.
Many dairy farmers, who have been
under extreme hardship anyway be-
cause of the tariffs with China and fall-
ing dairy prices, talked about the im-
pact on them. Last year, New Hamp-
shire dairy farmers lost $1 million be-
cause of the tariffs, and our farmers
tell me they are in danger of losing
several million more this coming year.
So they can’t afford to have another
hit.
The fact that this new dairy safety
net program, which was passed in the
farm bill—and congratulations to Sen-
ator STABENOW, the ranking member of
the Agriculture Committee. She and
Senator ROBERTS did a great job pro-
viding help for the first time for so
many dairy farmers. Even though they
are hurting because of the tariffs, those
farmers can’t benefit from that right
now because the program’s implemen-
tation has been delayed. They don’t
know how long they will be able to
hold on before they are able to get
help.
Furloughs have also slowed work at
the Office of National Drug Control
Policy and the programs it oversees
that are integral to New Hampshire’s
effort to fight the deadly opioid epi-
demic. Everybody who is getting ready
to speak has seen the effects in their
States because of the delays in these
programs. Last year, New Hampshire
had the second highest rate of deaths
due to opioid-related drug overdoses.
Continued delays from the Agency will
pull the rug out from under our first
responders, who rely on ONDCP re-
sources and critical Federal opioid re-
sponse efforts. Just as we are beginning
to see some progress in fighting the
opioid epidemic because of the work of
Congress, we are seeing steps taken
that move us backward.
Of course, there are the air traffic
controllers. Last Friday, I visited with
New Hampshire’s air traffic controllers
to discuss how the shutdown is affect-
ing their operations and safety at our
airports. I have received 38 hand-
written letters from New Hampshire
air traffic controllers who are opposed
to the shutdown.
(Mr. DAINES assumed the Chair.)
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that these letters be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN, My name is Dara
and I have been an air traffic controller with
the FAA for close to 19 years. I am writing
this letter to express my concern about our
current government shutdown.
On Christmas Eve, my dear mother passed
away. Ever since I was a child I have been
taking care of her since she was permanently
disabled from Multiple Sclerosis. The day be-
fore Thanksgiving she was diagnosed with
metastatic cancer and was given 3–6 months
to live. When she passed I was devastated! I
had to call people on Christmas Day to tell
them the news. That was so hard. I had to
contact the funeral parlor down in NJ (that’s
where we’re from) to coordinate a burial. I
had to take 3 days off to make it work. But
I still worked during this difficult time on
Christmas Eve and Christmas Day and the
26th. I also ended up having to pay thousands
of dollars for her funeral.
Honestly, this government shutdown has
been the last thing on my mind. But now the
realization of not being able to pay my mort-
gage, credit cards from Christmastime, and
now this funeral is too much to bear.
Air traffic control is a very stressful pro-
fession, but I am proud to be able to do it
and work with such a group of professionals
who come to work and are dedicated to safe-
ty in the National Airspace System. My col-
leagues and I deserve better.
Please end the government shutdown im-
mediately!
DORA (Bedford, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN, As an Air Traffic
Controller and constituent, I want you to
know how the partial government shutdown
is affecting me. For the last two weeks, air
traffic controllers have remained on the job,
dedicated to the safety of every flight. But
we don’t know when we will receive our next
paycheck. My colleagues and I have suffered
the sudden loss of our income due to the gov-
ernment shutdown. My husband is a fire-
fighter/EMT in Londonderry. We both have
very important and stressful jobs and take
our responsibility for public safety very seri-
ously. We have a home, a mortgage and are
trying to start a family and the stress of not
knowing when I will receive my paycheck is
a heavy burden to bear. Many of my col-
leagues had to cancel vacation time over the
holidays and miss out on time with their
family out of concern that they would not be
reimbursed for time off that they worked
hard to earn
It is not too much to ask to get paid for
the time we are required to show up and
work our hardest five days a week.
Many air traffic facilities are already criti-
cally staffed with many having scheduled 6
day work weeks. In our building, we cur-
rently have 6 employees whose training is at
a standstill because their trainers are non-
essential contractors.
Senator Shaheen, I truly appreciate your
time and beg you to do all you can to end
this shutdown immediately.
Sincerely,
SARAH (Deerfield, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN, As an Air Traffic
Controller, I want to you to know how the
government shutdown is affecting my family
and I. My husband and I are both Air Traffic
Controllers and are extremely proud of what
we do. However, not knowing when we will
get paid puts a log of stress on us in addition
to an already stressful environment that we
work in. I myself am in training at A90 and
this shutdown has the possibility of delaying
my final rating, which means a pay raise.
Bills do not stop and we are both out of a
paycheck. This puts a huge burden on my
family and I. Please end the government
shutdown.
Sincerely,
MICHELLE (Pelham, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN, Thank you so
much for all the hard work you are doing on
my behalf to end this harmful government
shutdown.
It was a pleasure to meet with you yester-
day and discuss my concerns with the shut-
down. As an Air Traffic Controller and Presi-
dent of Boston TRACON NATCA, located in
Merrimack, NH, I was able to discuss with
you firsthand how the shutdown is harmful
to my coworkers and the FAA as a whole.
Please keep up the fight to end the shut-
down.
Sincerely,
CURT (Merrimack, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN, I am writing to
you today to share with you the effect the
government shutdown has had on my family.
I’m married to someone who is older and re-
tired, so his income is considerably less than
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.029 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S51
January 8, 2019
mine. We have two small children and own a
home in Merrimack, NH. We not only have a
mortgage to pay, but other bills for heat and
utilities and my car. This shutdown has been
extremely stressful, more than the others I
have worked through. The current adminis-
tration has been so unpredictable as well as
volatile, it’s an actual thought that this
could drag out for months and that non-es-
sential friends and family that are currently
furloughed will not receive pay. This shut-
down is unfair to the dedicated and profes-
sional government employees, not just my-
self and the other air traffic controllers.
I am asking you to please end the shut-
down. Please re-open the government and
allow us to work knowing we will earn our
paychecks again.
Sincerely,
LISA (Merrimack, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN, I am writing you
today to share the impact the government
shutdown is having on me and more impor-
tantly my family. First, I would like to tell
you a little about my wife and I. We were
high school sweethearts and have been mar-
ried almost 15 years. While Kelly is not per-
fect, she is perfect for me. Kelly struggles
with and is receiving treatment for anxiety
and depression. Due to childhood trauma,
she struggles with uncertainty. In previous
shutdowns the not knowing causes stress and
strife. Even the anticipation of a possible
shutdown raises her anxiety so I have started
to keep them to myself and not tell her until
the last possible moment to save her the an-
guish. It has been over two weeks with no
end in sight and this wreaking havoc on our
relationship.
Next I would like to tell you about my two
daughters. My oldest Kaley is 13, a bright
honor roll student athlete. Kaley has been
having gastrointestinal issues for a few years
and just had her second endoscopy last
month. Even with FEHB coverage the proce-
dures are not free. We have a follow up with
her G.I. tomorrow. I find myself hoping she
won’t need major medical treatments as
money is starting to get tight.
Next would be my other daughter Savanna.
She is 10 and like her mom suffers from anx-
iety. Like her mother, I have also tried to
shield her from this so she won’t worry be-
cause no 10–year-old should have to. Unfortu-
nately, the time where I can protect her
from this is drawing to a close as this week
I will have to inform her dance studio that I
won’t be able to afford February’s tuition. I
know dance classes can seem frivolous in the
grand scheme of things, but they are her out-
let, her freedom, and her happiness. I hope
and pray for accommodation and under-
standing from a N.H. small business owner to
allow her to continue without payment. An-
other Savanna story for you, she has sensory
issues and through therapy is finally learn-
ing how to voice them. About a week before
Christmas while tucking her into bed, I jok-
ingly asked her why she had 9, yes 9 blankets
on her bed. Her response was a big break
through for us. ‘‘Dad, I like the weight of it.
It helps me calm down.’’ That Saturday we
were finishing up our Christmas shopping for
mom and I took her into Yogibo at the
Pheasantland mall. They have weighted
blankets and I let her try it out. ‘‘Oooh dad,
this is nice.’’ Well, those N.H.-made blankets
are $80. Normally, a purchase would have
been made that day. Unfortunately, that was
the eve of the shutdown, and Savanna is still
waiting patiently for dad’s next check.
Lastly, how has this affected me? I put my-
self last as I normally do with the girls. It
pains me to watch them go through this.
Furthermore, I was faced with a thought
that would never have come up normally.
Thursday night my 64–year-old mother was
rushed to the emergency room in Brockton,
MA, about an hour away from Nashua. For a
brief fleeting moment I actually thought
about fuel for my truck. I had fuel and have
resources for more for now, but I need to
keep driving to work without pay. I did go
down to check up on her and she came home
last night thankfully. I do despise the fact
however that the thought of not going even
crossed my mind. Starting next week I have
to start looking for a second job to offset
some of the losses. I will have 16 years of
government service at 3 different air traffic
facilities in March.
I humbly request your assistance in ending
the government shutdown and returning
some normality to our house hold.
Sincerely,
JAMES (Nashua, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN, First and fore-
most, I want to thank you for taking the
time to read my letter. During times of a
government shutdown, federal employees (ei-
ther furloughed or working without pay) feel
like no one is actively listening to their sto-
ries. With that in mind, thank you for hear-
ing what I have to say.
I am a single mother of three, and I thank
God every day for the job that I have. My ca-
reer as an air traffic controller has enabled
me to take care of my children and afford to
give them opportunities that many families
cannot afford. I have two girls attending out
of state colleges. One is at Purdue University
studying Airport management, the other at
University of South Carolina studying Polit-
ical Science. My son, 14, is in middle school
and actively engaged in sports.
Some days, when I feel the stress of bills
pilling on, I feel guilty because I have a
great job, make a really good salary, and
have great benefits. However in the end, no
matter how much any of us make, we all
have bills and responsibilities. I work for the
sole purpose of earning a wage to support my
family. This government shutdown has left
me worried. I called one of my creditors and
they were not sympathetic at all. I’m wor-
ried about using credit cards and being
charged a high interest rate and yet, life still
happens. Food needs to be put on the table,
cars need to run, and my daughter’s rent at
college still needs to be paid. Unfortunately,
everything goes on except my paycheck.
Holding federal employees paychecks ‘‘hos-
tage’’ should never be an option in the midst
of Congressional funding arguments. The
ironic thing about it is that I am ‘‘paying
the price’’ and I am not even receiving a pay-
check! I understand that everyone has an
opinion on border security. I would hope that
100% of Congress (and the President) agree
that employees of the federal government
should not be a pawn in this matter.
I hope that you and your fellow members
of Congress can come to an agreement to let
federal employees go back to work, get paid,
and feel safe knowing that their family needs
are being met.
Sincerely,
SHERRI (Hollis, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN, As an air traffic
controller and a constituent, I want you to
know how the partial government shutdown
is affecting me and my colleagues.
The lack of paid leave means missing time
with the family. It means coming to work at
a stressful job when you might not feel at
your best. It means not being able to plan
time off to get my car fixed or get that new
furniture delivered during the week.
The world of air traffic is constantly evolv-
ing. New and revised rules and procedures
are a constant. The lack of support personnel
means that eventually those changes could
be missed and safety compromised.
The lack of training in classrooms and
simulators means an already short-staffed
controller workforce will continue to shrink
and controllers will not be able to progress
in their careers. Eventually the lack of pay
may convince eligible controllers to retire or
make others decide to seek other employ-
ment. The number of fully certified air traf-
fic controllers is now at a 30-year low.
Please end the shutdown immediately.
Sincerely,
TODD (Manchester, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN, As an Air Traffic
Controller and constituent, I want you to
know how the partial government shutdown
is affecting me.
In the past year my in-laws have moved in
with my family. My father-in-law lost his job
and him and his wife were no longer able to
afford living on their own. The extra finan-
cial burden with the combination of the gov-
ernment shutdown is going to make it hard
for me to meet my financial obligations.
Please end the shutdown immediately!
SHANE (Bedford, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN, I appreciate your
efforts for our state and country. At this
time I feel it is vital that you understand the
impact that Washington politics is having on
my family and friends. The inability for our
elected officials to find common ground and
demonstrate leadership is disheartening to
say the least. It is time for our elected offi-
cials to put politics aside and put people as
their priority. Our federal workforce has
good men and women with a strong desire to
place the needs of this country first, yet our
elected officials are preventing this. Please
end this shutdown now and allow us to do
our jobs.
GERALD (Brookline, NH).
HON. SENATOR JEANNE SHAHEEN, I would
like to first thank you for reaching out and
meeting with our NATCA legislative leader-
ship team yesterday. They do so much work,
on their own time, to help support all the air
traffic controllers throughout New England.
As a constituent directly impacted by this
government shutdown, I would like you to
stress to all colleagues, Democrat or Repub-
lican, that this has and will continue to put
an undo stress upon me and my family. As an
air traffic controller, with one of the most
stressful jobs in the world, the last thing
that I need is to worry about when I’m going
to receive my next check for work. I’ve been
performing at a professional and safe level
that is expected
In the weeks leading up to the shutdown,
and knowing that it was almost certain it
would happen, my federal coworkers and I
raised over $12,000 in donations in the South-
ern New Hampshire area. This included 200
gifts and gift cards, totaling over $18,000 to
the Nashua Children’s Home and $4,020 do-
nated to Family Promise of Greater Nashua
at Anne Marie House. We will continue to
contribute to our communities but please
bring an end to this shutdown immediately.
Thank you for your time,
EVERETT (Bedford, NH).
THE HON. SENATOR JEANNE SHAHEEN, As an
air traffic controller and constituent, I want
you to know how the partial government
shutdown is affecting me. For the last two
weeks, air traffic controllers have remained
on the job, dedicated to the safety of every
flight. But, we don’t know when we will re-
ceive our next paycheck. My colleagues and
I have suffered the sudden loss of our income
due to the government shutdown. It’s going
to be hard for me to meet all of my financial
obligations.
Please end the shutdown immediately!
ANDRE (Derry, NH).
THE HON. SENATOR JEANNE SHAHEEN, I am
currently working at Boston TRACON for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.007 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S52 January 8, 2019
the FAA. For the past thirty years I have
been providing air traffic services for the
United States. For the first nine and half
years I was serving the country in the Air
Force during Operations Desert Storm and
Desert Shield.
I am a one income family that relies on my
federal paycheck. I have two children, one
that is planning on going to college in the
upcoming year. That being said, I should be
financially planning to pay for her college,
not my mortgage! While the Congress is cele-
brating, high fiving each other, I’m won-
dering, How will I meet my financial obliga-
tions. Please help end this nonsense soon.
Sincerely,
DOUGLASS (New Boston, NH).
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Air traffic control-
lers keep our airways safe, but, as we
all know, they are being asked to work
long shifts without being sure they are
going to get paid for that work. One air
traffic controller I heard from was re-
cently transferred to the Boston area,
which is covered in New Hampshire.
She is the sole provider to her mother.
Now she is paying not only her mort-
gage but her mother’s mortgage.
In a letter she addressed to my office,
she wrote:
As a sole source of income to my house-
hold, the foreseeable future of this shutdown
is detrimental. . . . [It has created] a sub-
stantial burden on not just me but the thou-
sands of federal employees it’s impacting.
Sadly, the shutdown also stands to
affect the safety of air travel—not be-
cause our air traffic controllers aren’t
on the job. They are on the job. They
are doing the work even though they
are not getting paid. But the fact is,
men and women who provide adminis-
trative and maintenance functions on
the runway—those people who fix
equipment when it stops working, who
are in the control tower and at airport
facilities—they will not be at work to
support our air traffic controllers. So
when a runway or taxiway light goes
dark, it is going to go unrepaired. That
jeopardizes the safety and the effi-
ciency of aviation operations.
Then there are the impacts to those
Agencies that are funded by the Com-
merce-Justice-Science appropriations
bill. I understand this particularly well
as the ranking member on the CJS
Subcommittee of Appropriations. I
know what a devastating effect this
shutdown is having on these Agencies.
More than 41,000 law enforcement
agents of the Department of Justice—
including agents within the FBI, the
Drug Enforcement Administration, and
the Bureau of Prisons—are working for
IOUs. We are hearing this directly in
New Hampshire, where every staff
member at the Federal Correctional In-
stitution in Berlin, NH, which is in
northern New Hampshire, is excepted.
That means they are required to report
for work, and they are not being paid.
I would like to read an excerpt from
a letter I received from Chris Allen.
Chris is the president of the union at
FCI Berlin, which represents 180 staff
members. He highlighted the kinds of
choices staff members are being forced
to make. He said:
While some staff members can call and po-
tentially have a mortgage or a car payment
excused if they are missing only one source
of income, even buying simple groceries or
paying for childcare becomes difficult for a
family when all sources of income have been
stopped and you are required to continue
working.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have Chris’s letter printed in
the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GOVERN-
MENT EMPLOYEES COUNCIL OF
PRISON LOCALS, LOCAL #2008,
Berlin, NH.
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN: My name is Chris
Allen and I am the President of AFGE Local
2008. 1 represent 180 staff members at the
Federal Correctional Institution in Berlin,
NH. Today I write to you with great concern
for these federal employees. As you are
aware, these staff members are currently
being affected by the current lapse in fund-
ing for the Justice Department. Every staff
member employed at FCI Berlin is consid-
ered ‘‘excepted’’ and are required to report
for work without being paid at this time.
Next week, on January 17, 2019, which would
have been our next scheduled pay day, we
will be missing our first full pay check.
We are fortunate to have some banks will-
ing to lend a helping hand to employees dur-
ing this difficult time. However, it hasn’t
been a save all either. Staff members are
running into issues with banks asking for
documentation that they are truly fur-
loughed and guaranteed to be paid when the
shutdown ends. With no firm date that the
shutdown could be resolved and no legisla-
tion in place to guarantee they will be paid
in the end, banks are giving staff a harder
time while they are applying for loans at a
0% interest rate. The other fear is that the
shutdown continues past one or two pay peri-
ods. Many of the banks are only offering
short term loans equal to only one or two
pay checks. If the shutdown continues,
banks are undecided on whether future low
or no interest loans will be continued for our
staff.
We also have a number of families working
at FCI Berlin that have two incomes coming
from the Justice Department. While some
staff members may have a significant other
being paid from outside the government,
many of our families are now missing two
sources of income. While some staff members
can call and potentially have a mortgage or
car payment excused if they are missing only
one source of income, even buying simple
groceries or paying for childcare becomes
difficult for a family when all sources of in-
come have been stopped and you are required
to continuing working.
I ask you and your colleagues in Wash-
ington to please keep the excepted staff of
FCI Berlin in mind during this time of shut-
down so they can be paid for the professional
work they do day in and day out to keep our
communities safe.
Sincerely,
CHRIS ALLEN,
President, AFGE Local 2008.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, be-
cause of the shutdown, the Department
of Commerce is not processing U.S.
companies’ requests to be excluded
from the President’s steel and alu-
minum tariffs. That delay will cost
companies millions of dollars and will
increase economic uncertainty. The
shutdown is also preventing the De-
partment of Commerce from assessing
new anti-dumping and countervailing
duties cases that help ensure our com-
panies are competing on a level playing
field.
Finally, this shutdown, like all shut-
downs, is going to put a lasting burden
on the economy. The 16-day shutdown
in 2013 cost the government $2.5 billion
in pay and benefits, and it lowered
fourth-quarter gross domestic product
for the country by about $3 billion in
lost output.
The 2018 Trump shutdown has fur-
loughed about 380,000 employees, near-
ly half of the number furloughed in
2013. So it is fair to say that the shut-
down has already cost the government
at least $1 billion, and the number is
growing every day. The toll this shut-
down is taking on the American people
was completely avoidable. That is what
is so frustrating, and I know it is frus-
trating to everybody in this Chamber.
Last week, the House passed legisla-
tion to reopen the government that is
virtually identical to legislation that
passed the Senate or was reported by
the Appropriations Committee with
strong bipartisan margins. In fact,
here, as we remember, that continuing
resolution to allow us to keep negoti-
ating passed by a voice vote.
I urge Senator MCCONNELL to bring
these bills to the floor. Let President
Trump decide to sign them or not sign
them. He can make that choice as
President, but we are a separate branch
of government, and it is up to us to
make the determination to end the
shutdown immediately and to do what
is right for the American people. We
need to ensure that all government em-
ployees affected by the shutdown re-
ceive the pay they deserve. I know
there is legislation, led by Senators
CARDIN and COLLINS, to do that. I urge
Congress to take up and pass this crit-
ical legislation as soon as possible.
One of the most fundamental con-
stitutional duties of Congress is the ap-
propriations process—to supply annual
funds for Federal programs that sup-
port national defense, transportation,
small businesses, food assistance for
low-income families, research and de-
velopment, and so much more. Right
now, by refusing to allow legislation to
reopen the government, this Senate—
this Congress—is failing, and millions
of Americans are suffering as a result.
I urge President Trump, Senator
MCCONNELL, and congressional Repub-
licans to reopen the government and
allow Americans to get back to work.
I yield the floor.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I rise
today out of deep frustration with the
Trump administration’s treatment of
Federal workers due to the government
shutdown.
It has been 17 days since more than
380,000 Federal workers were fur-
loughed and more than 450,000 began
working without pay.
Once upon a time, we were told that
Mexico would pay for the President’s
border wall. Now the President is de-
manding taxpayers cough up more than
$5 billion, and he is holding our Federal
workers hostage until he gets it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.008 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S53
January 8, 2019
At first the President tried to paint
Federal workers and contractors as po-
litical actors. Now he imagines that
Federal workers are actually cheering
him on.
But rather than imagining what Fed-
eral workers are going through, I en-
courage the President and my Repub-
lican colleagues to listen to the first-
hand accounts of how this shutdown is
affecting the real families caught up in
it.
Here are some of the messages I have
received from Virginians whose fami-
lies are experiencing significant finan-
cial hardship because of this Presi-
dent’s shutdown.
Rebecca in Chesapeake writes: ‘‘. . . I
just want my husband to be able to go
back to the work he loves and to have
stability for my family returned . . .
The stress of not knowing how long
this will last is eating at both my hus-
band and me.’’
Rosemarie in Falls Church shared
this: ‘‘My husband was diagnosed last
week with advanced lung cancer and
now on top of that stress, I have to
worry about not getting a paycheck
. . .’’
The President, who has never worked
for a paycheck in his life, says he can
relate. He says he is sure Federal work-
ers ‘‘will make adjustments.’’ Here is
what those ‘‘adjustments’’ actually
look like.
Lisa in Arlington writes: ‘‘I am
forced to look for multiple part-time
jobs to make ends meet and my savings
will soon run out. Creditors and land-
lords have only so much patience with
us.’’
How disheartening it must be to dedi-
cate your life to serving others, only to
find your own livelihood in jeopardy
through no fault of your own.
That is why I am doing everything I
can to make sure Federal employees
receive back pay for any time spent
furloughed or working without pay.
That means low-wage Federal con-
tractors, too. The other day, I received
a letter from a Federal contractor from
Ashburn, who says the shutdown has
‘‘rocked the financial stability of my
family.’’
These folks who serve the Federal
Government as custodians, cafeteria
workers, security guards, and in many
other important roles should not suffer
because of this President’s actions.
We also need to reverse the Presi-
dent’s unilateral Federal pay freeze—a
slap in the face to hardworking Federal
employees—announced just a few days
before Christmas.
The truth is, Federal workers are
sick and tired of being treated like bar-
gaining chips by this administration.
Here is what Chad, furloughed NASA
engineer from Suffolk, told me: ‘‘I’m
disappointed to once again find myself
barred from doing the job that I love. I
find it offensive to be used as a polit-
ical pawn and find the recent executive
order to freeze civil servant pay at 2018
levels, while on furlough no less, to be
shockingly disrespectful and wrong.’’
Federal workers aren’t in this busi-
ness to get rich; they are public serv-
ants who often forgo higher pay in the
private sector to serve their country.
Dishonoring this sacrifice with a
shutdown, with a pay freeze, and with
the President’s utter indifference to
our Federal workers is a national dis-
grace.
It is having a devastating effect on
morale and the Federal Government’s
ability to recruit and retain talent.
Here is how Joanna, a DHS employee
from Woodbridge, put it: ‘‘I love my
job, but being a pawn for those who
have no compassion for me or those I
work beside is going to drive me and
many, many others out of public serv-
ice.’’
At a time when the share of Federal
employees eligible for retirement is ex-
pected to jump to 30 percent in 5 years,
the last thing we should be doing is ac-
tively undermining the competitive-
ness of the Federal workforce.
In conclusion, I thank my friend,
Senator KAINE, for bringing us together
this evening and for his partnership in
fighting for Virginia’s Federal workers
and contractors.
Thank you as well to my constitu-
ents Rebecca, Rosemarie, Lisa, Chad,
Joanna, and others for allowing me to
share their stories.
I want to reassure them and every
Virginian that I remain committed to
ending this unnecessary shutdown and
making sure every worker impacted by
it is made whole.
Thank you, Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I thank
the Senator from New Hampshire, as
well as the Senator from Virginia and
my other colleagues who are gathered
here.
My trek each week to this desk
starts in Illinois. It means that for a
number of years, I have gone through
the airports of the Midwest—primarily
in Illinois and Missouri—more than
most. In fact, I probably know O’Hare
Airport and every corner of it better
than anyone who doesn’t work there on
a regular basis, and I know the people
who work there, too, at all different
levels.
Starting in 2001, we brought in TSA
as a means of making certain that we
would be safe boarding airplanes, that
people would not bring guns or weap-
ons or bombs onto planes. These men
and women, of course, get on our
nerves once in a while as we have to
open a valise or piece of baggage and
take off our shoes, and perhaps we for-
got there was a water bottle onboard.
It is a little frustrating, and I know I
have had that feeling, but I often think
to myself: They are doing their job,
and thank goodness they are. If it
weren’t for the men and women of TSA
carefully screening passengers every
single day, we would not be as safe, nor
would our families be as safe, on these
airplanes.
At 10 this morning, I went out to
O’Hare. Instead of heading to the gate
to catch a plane, I had a press con-
ference and brought four of these TSA
agents in to explain what has happened
to them and what will happen this
coming weekend because, you see, this
is showdown weekend for these employ-
ees. President Trump’s shutdown of the
Federal Government will mean that for
the first time this coming weekend,
these employees of the Transportation
Security Agency are not going to re-
ceive a paycheck. They show up for
work every day. They have to. They
are known as essential personnel,
which means our government has de-
cided we can’t really function as a na-
tion without them. Yet our govern-
ment has decided—at least in the
White House—that as important as
they may be, as essential as they may
be, starting this weekend they will
work without pay.
I had not met them personally be-
fore, but I asked each of them to ex-
plain, what is this going to mean to
you and your family—not getting a
paycheck.
They really brought home to me
what workers across America—not just
Federal employees but workers across
America—face every payday. They
each said to me, with only one excep-
tion: Senator, we live paycheck to pay-
check. If we don’t receive our pay-
checks, we have to make some basic
decisions.
One young woman, who had worked
for 16 years for TSA, said to me: I live
39 miles away from O’Hare, roundtrip
78 miles every single day, and I make it
because I need this job, and I need gas-
oline for my car to get here. It costs
me a lot of money each and every day
and every week. I don’t know what I
am going to do without the paycheck.
Another one talked about the fact
that they are dealing with expenses we
all face—whether it is mortgage or
rent—and what it will mean to them if
they can’t make their mortgage pay-
ment. Well, if you don’t make your
mortgage payment on time, and time
passes, it affects your credit rating. It
could affect the interest rate you pay
on your mortgage or whether you even
have a mortgage when it is all over. So,
for these people, it is a critical ele-
ment.
One woman brought up something,
which I am sure many working families
know instantly. She said: Senator, if I
can’t get my paycheck, I can’t pay the
daycare center that takes care of my
kids while I come to work here every
day. That is the reality of life for
working families.
So why in the world has President
Donald Trump decided that in order to
make his case to the American people,
he is going to penalize these workers,
many of whom are essential to Amer-
ica’s security and safety? Why did he
do this?
I would have to say, with all due re-
spect to President Donald Trump: Pick
on somebody your own size. Stop pick-
ing on people living paycheck to pay-
check who are trying to serve this Na-
tion in important ways.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.009 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S54 January 8, 2019
What we hear from the President: I
just have to do it because I have to
have my wall.
We remember the wall. You couldn’t
miss it in his campaign. He talked
about it incessantly, the sea to shining
sea concrete wall that was going to
protect America and be paid for by the
Mexicans. Remember that? Well, here
we are. We have given the President
money over the last 2 years in his Pres-
idency to construct fences and barriers
where they are needed—not his al-
mighty wall, 2,000 miles long—but we
have asked him to justify each year
how he is going to spend this money,
taxpayers’ dollars, and whether it real-
ly is worthwhile.
The President has decided he is impa-
tient. He can’t wait any longer. He has
to have huge sums of money, maybe
even $5 billion, dramatically increasing
spending on barriers at the border, and
he has to have it now, and the only way
to make his point is to shut down the
government.
I was at a meeting last week when
the President said: Make no mistake, I
am not talking about shutting down
this government for a few days. I am
prepared—and he repeated it afterward
in front of the cameras. Donald Trump
said: I am prepared to shut down this
government for months, even years.
Now, this President is making his-
tory. No President in the history of
this country has ever shut down his
own government. We have elected men
to lead and manage this government,
and we understand that their responsi-
bility is to keep the lights on and make
sure taxpayer dollars are well spent,
but this President doesn’t understand
that to be his responsibility, and a lot
of innocent people are suffering.
Yesterday, I was at the Department
of Agriculture research lab in Peoria,
IL. It turns out it is the largest one,
with 200 researchers there. You think
to yourself, they are doing important
research when it comes to agriculture.
It turns out this lab has some amazing
history behind it.
It was during World War II at this lab
where they discovered penicillin. It was
at the Peoria ag lab where they came
up with penicillin that we could use for
our troops who were being wounded in
World War II, saving countless lives in
the process. They are pretty proud of
that legacy, and they should be.
Do you know what they are working
on now? The Peoria ag lab is working
on something called tunicamycin. I had
never heard of it, and I am a liberal
arts lawyer so I don’t understand a lot
about it, but here is what it gets down
to: This element, which occurs natu-
rally in nature, can boost the healing
power of antibiotics that have been
spent—they no longer have an effect on
people—but if tunicamycin is added,
they can once again be effective and
save lives. Peoria may have done it
again: first penicillin, now
tunicamycin. Well, the lights have
been turned off at the Department of
Agriculture research laboratory in Pe-
oria. They have been turned off because
of President Trump’s shutdown.
I met with one of the research team.
She has worked there for 15 years, she
has a degree in chemistry, and she is
doing her best to do her job, but she is
not going to get paid this weekend. I
asked her what she was going to do as
a result of it. She said: I hoped I might
be able to apply for unemployment
compensation, but, Senator, the
records I need to produce for unem-
ployment compensation are in that
laboratory building, and I can’t get in
there. They have shut me out.
She can’t even apply for unemploy-
ment compensation so her family can
get by until the shutdown is over. Why
did we do this to her? Why does this
President want to impose this kind of
shutdown and hardship on people who
are doing worthy work—at taxpayers’
expense, for sure, but for the taxpayers
of America? Whether it is TSA agents
or it is people at the ag lab, these are
good people who are dedicated to this
government and have given their life
and their life’s work to this govern-
ment. They deserve better treatment
than this.
Let me close by saying a word about
the border. The President says it is all
about walls. Well, it turns out there
are things he hasn’t shared with the
American people, and he is not likely
to do it when he makes his presen-
tation this evening.
Take a look here at the apprehen-
sions at the border. These are the ap-
prehensions being made by Federal
agencies and people trying to cross the
border illegally. Notice something?
You may have noticed, in the year 2000,
there were 1.6 million apprehensions.
Then take a look at the year 2018. The
apprehensions are down to slightly
under 400,000. So from 1.6 million to
slightly under 400,000.
We are going to be told we are facing
a security crisis at the border, and it
turns out that we have fewer people
seeking to cross the border illegally
now than we have in 45 years, and the
apprehensions of those people have
gone down dramatically from 1.6 mil-
lion to slightly under 400,000, and we
have already dramatically increased
the number of people in Border Patrol.
Meanwhile, let me add something
that the President doesn’t talk about
because it doesn’t fit into his wall sce-
nario. We are facing the worst drug epi-
demic in the history of the United
States of America. It is opioids, heroin,
and fentanyl, and fentanyl has now
been identified by the CDC as the dead-
liest narcotic on the streets of Amer-
ica.
Where is the fentanyl coming from? I
can tell you where a large part of it is
coming from, from China through Mex-
ico. Oh, they must be putting it in
backpacks and jumping over the bor-
der. No, 80 percent of the fentanyl
seized by CBP in 2018 was coming
through ports of entry, places where
vehicles and railroad cars go through
now. So 80 percent of this deadly
fentanyl seized by CBP was coming
through ports of entry. What are we
doing to stop it? Let me tell you, we
are not doing enough. Ninety-eight per-
cent of the railroad cars that come into
the United States are scanned, a basic
x ray, to find out what is inside that
car. Is it something that wasn’t dis-
closed? When it comes to cars and
trucks coming into this country, 18
percent are being scanned, fewer than
one out of five of the cars and trucks
coming into this country. Ever wonder
how the fentanyl is coming into this
country and killing people in every
town across the State of Illinois and
across America? It is coming in
through ports of entry.
If the President would stop preaching
about his almighty wall and take a
look at real border security, he would
be doing what is necessary to stop this
fentanyl and these drugs coming into
this country—and we are not doing
enough.
I am for border security. Make it
smart. I am not worried about a Presi-
dent keeping a campaign promise that
didn’t make sense from the start. I am
worried about keeping this border safe
for our families across the entire Na-
tion. Tonight, let’s make sure the peo-
ple who work that border and work at
TSA and work for the Federal Govern-
ment get back to work this week. That
is priority No. 1.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I am
very proud to join with my colleagues
tonight. I thank the Senator from Vir-
ginia, the Senator from New Hamp-
shire, and other colleagues who are
here to speak out and talk about com-
mon sense and what is happening and
what we believe should be happening
for the American people.
In Michigan, we are building a new
bridge, and Canada is paying for it.
That is the truth. Canada is paying for
a bridge in Michigan. Here in Wash-
ington, President Trump is demanding
walls that he is expecting American
taxpayers to pay for—walls that the
majority of experts and the majority of
people do not believe will be effective
in keeping us safe. Meanwhile, in
Michigan hundreds of Customs and
Border Patrol officers, who keep us
safe every day, are working without
pay, and that is wrong.
The President says we need more se-
curity. I support strong border secu-
rity, as my colleagues do—strong, ef-
fective border security. I also support
economic security for hard-working
Michigan families.
Some Federal employees in Michi-
gan, as other colleagues have spoken
about, are wondering how they are
going to support their families, pay
their mortgages, and keep the heat on
without the paychecks they are sup-
posed to receive on Friday.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:36 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.033 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S55
January 8, 2019
President Trump is talking about a
humanitarian crisis. Here is a humani-
tarian crisis: 38 million people who de-
pend on food assistance—the Supple-
mental Nutritional Assistance Pro-
gram—to keep food on their tables now
have to worry that it might suddenly
be gone. Most of those Americans are
senior citizens, people with disabilities,
and children. This shutdown fight
should not be about politics, but it is.
It should be about people. What is hap-
pening here is about people, and the
American people are losing.
One issue we should be able to agree
on is the border. We all support border
security. I can’t say that enough, and
my colleagues say that as well. I cer-
tainly know the importance of border
security, as a Member from a border
State—in fact, the State with the most
active crossings at the northern bor-
der. The professionals on our northern
border keep us safe every day, and they
know what they need to do their jobs.
They will say: It is more resources,
more staff, more people. Above all,
they need more technology. What they
don’t need is a 1st-century solution to
a 21st-century problem. Building a wall
on our border is a little like providing
the U.S. Army swords and shields and
expecting them to defend our Nation
today.
Unfortunately, this administration is
more focused on the merits of concrete
versus steel than actually protecting
the American people in a real and ef-
fective way. If our border is a national
emergency right now, then, why hasn’t
the President spent the hundreds of
millions of dollars that we have al-
ready given him in the last year’s
budget. We have already allocated dol-
lars for border security—the majority
of which has not been spent.
We all agree that border security is a
high priority, and we should also be
able to agree that workers—people
working—deserve to be paid, and they
should be able to take care of their
families.
I have heard from Michigan workers
who can’t pay their bills and are des-
perately seeking temporary jobs—fami-
lies who have been left without health
insurance, businesses that contract
with the Federal Government, that
know that even if Federal workers get
paid back at the end of this, they will
not. There are also thousands of small
businesses that depend on spending by
Federal employees to remain open—the
dry cleaner, the neighborhood store,
the local restaurant.
This shutdown is also hurting Amer-
ican agriculture. My colleagues have
talked about the fact that at the end of
last year, just a few weeks ago, we
passed a strong bipartisan farm bill to
help farmers struggling with low
prices, with growing trade concerns,
and unpredictable weather, to say the
least.
During these difficult times, our
farmers desperately need the predict-
ability and confidence of a 5-year farm
bill. That is what Senator ROBERTS and
I spoke about every day on the floor of
the Senate: We need to put in place a
5-year farm bill with predictability for
farmers in rural communities and fam-
ilies. However, the President has un-
dermined the certainty that the farm
bill provided by continuing this shut-
down at the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture.
Every day the USDA is shut down is
another day the improvements we
made in the 2018 farm bill are delayed.
Local farm service offices all across
Michigan are closed. Farmers can’t
apply for the loans they need, as they
look to next year. We have dairy farm-
ers in very desperate situations. We
dramatically increased support for
them in the farm bill—a new dairy pro-
gram—and they need it now. They
needed it yesterday. They needed it
last week.
Important crop reports have been
halted that farmers need to make deci-
sions about upcoming planting seasons:
What is the market? What are the
prices? And there are all kinds of tech-
nical information they need to plan to
move forward. Frankly, the USDA
World Development Office is the eco-
nomic development arm for every
small town in every rural community
in Michigan. Our rural homeowners
cannot receive the housing loans they
need to finance their homes and pay
their mortgages. There are so many
other ways things have stopped.
We can’t forget about our families on
food assistance. Thirty-eight million
people are able to put food on their
table thanks to the Supplemental Nu-
trition Assistance Program, or SNAP.
While we should certainly do every-
thing we can to ensure that food assist-
ance is available in the near term—and
I appreciate the Department working
on that—our families deserve long-
term certainty, especially considering
that nearly 70 percent of those on
SNAP are seniors, children, and people
with disabilities. It is unconscionable
to risk letting those most in need go
hungry because of the politics of a gov-
ernment shutdown.
Beyond SNAP, school meals, support
for WIC—a very important program for
women, infants, and children—and food
for seniors are all at risk if this con-
tinues to go on. Due to the shutdown,
local food banks are no longer receiv-
ing funds to distribute and to store
food. There are very real consequences
going on. We could go through every
single Department to speak about what
is happening to real people and what
will happen if this does not get re-
solved.
We can disagree about a lot of things.
We should be able to agree, though,
that people keeping us safe every day
should be paid; that Federal workers
should be able to pay their bills and
take care of their families; that chil-
dren, seniors, and people with disabil-
ities shouldn’t have to worry about
where their next meal is coming from
because of a government shutdown.
It is time for the President to end
this. It is very easy. The House and the
Senate now have both passed the ap-
propriations bills on a bipartisan vote.
At the end of last year, we passed it in
the Senate. It was just passed last
week in the House. We can repass those
bills. They should go to the President’s
desk, and this shutdown should end. He
should sign the bipartisan appropria-
tions bills and put the American people
first.
We can and will continue to debate
what border security looks like and
how we can be most effective, doing
what we all want to see get done. It is
time to stop the shutdown and for the
President to sign the appropriations
bills that are bipartisan and make sure
the American people know he is on
their side when it comes to what is
happening in the country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, we are
now in the third week of President
Trump’s government shutdown. This is
yet another manufactured, unneces-
sary, and irresponsible crisis from this
President. This one comes at a steep,
steep cost for very real people. A gov-
ernment shutdown ripples throughout
the entire economy. It shakes con-
sumer confidence. It impacts hard-
working families.
In my home State of New Mexico, al-
most 6,000 Federal workers have been
furloughed or are working without pay,
many of whom were already living pay-
check to paycheck before this Presi-
dent’s shutdown.
Carol from Tijeras wrote to me: ‘‘I
feel I am being held Hostage by my
government which I have always felt it
was an honor to work for.’’
Carol is worried about how she and
her coworkers are going to pay their
mortgages and their car payments if
this shutdown continues.
Kathy from Los Lunas wrote to me:
‘‘I am a federal employee and I am dis-
mayed that the president is holding us
hostage. . . . He needs to quit toying
with our lives and all of the public that
we support and serve and end this shut-
down.’’
It is hard to say it any better than
that. The shutdown’s impacts hit far
more than our Federal employees. Hun-
dreds of thousands of New Mexicans
rely on the Federal agencies that
President Trump refuses to reopen.
During President Trump’s shutdown,
our public lands have had to lock their
gates or leave parks and facilities
unstaffed. The impacts of reduced visi-
tation, the challenges for furloughed
public land workers, and the costs of
repairing the damage accrued during
the shutdown will hurt communities
across our State and many others.
In this era of increasingly extreme
and catastrophic wildfires, I am par-
ticularly worried about the impact
that a prolonged shutdown will have on
our national forests.
Nicholas, a wildland firefighter fight-
er from Las Cruces wrote to me that he
and his coworkers have been fur-
loughed. He says: ‘‘If this shutdown is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.035 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S56 January 8, 2019
not resolved, it will impact my ability
to provide for my family.’’
Nicholas deserves to be able to sup-
port his family. Our communities can’t
afford to wait for Nicholas and his co-
workers to do their essential work that
keeps our forests healthy and prevents
more destructive wildfires.
Our State’s farmers and rural com-
munities are also facing increased un-
certainty. That is because President
Trump’s shutdown has shuttered the
Department of Agriculture, which
funds agricultural loans and many eco-
nomic development programs in rural
communities.
If the shutdown continues into next
month, as President Trump seems en-
tirely willing to allow, the Supple-
mental Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram—sometimes referred to as food
stamps—will run out of funding. That
would mean that millions of Ameri-
cans—including more than half a mil-
lion in New Mexico alone—would be
left struggling to put food on the table.
Over the weekend, KOB, one of our
local television stations in Albu-
querque, talked to New Mexicans who
would be impacted by a lapse in food
stamps funding. One man named Ste-
ven said:
All of us who use food stamps rely on it.
That’s how we eat, that’s how we get our nu-
trition.
He said that if he can’t receive his
support for food next month, he might
have to take out a loan and go into
debt.
New Mexico is also home to many
Tribal nations, which are dispropor-
tionately impacted by a lapse in Fed-
eral funding and are now under distress
to meet very basic needs in their com-
munities. That includes things like law
enforcement, education, housing, and
transportation.
Let me tell you one example I heard
from the Mescalero Apache Tribe in
southern New Mexico. Mescalero’s
lands span more than 700 square miles.
Because of President Trump’s shut-
down, the Tribe’s federally funded po-
lice force has been furloughed. Just
think about what that means for some-
one who needs help, someone who needs
to report a crime, or someone who
needs medical attention.
I need to remind us that this shut-
down comes right after Congress failed
in December to reauthorize the Vio-
lence Against Women Act. Now, with-
out this law and without funding,
Tribes are especially strained in ad-
dressing an epidemic of sexual violence
that has been so acutely felt in their
communities.
Mescalero has seen every single one
of its Bureau of Indian Affairs social
workers and victims specialists fur-
loughed. That is extremely dangerous
for women and children who are vic-
tims of abuse. These are real people’s
lives being unnecessarily damaged by
President Trump all because he will
not stop holding our government hos-
tage.
Perhaps most telling about President
Trump’s shutdown is the impact it is
having on our Federal workers respon-
sible for keeping our Nation safe along
our southern border. As a border State,
New Mexico is more familiar than
President Trump with responsible and
smart border security policies. In fact,
our State is the proud home of the Fed-
eral Law Enforcement Training Center,
one of the primary training centers for
U.S. Customs and Border Patrol offi-
cers. Because of President Trump’s
shutdown, the workers at FLETC and
all of the officers working at our ports
of entry and agents along our border
are either furloughed or working with-
out pay. How can it possibly be the
best way to keep our Nation’s border
region safe and secure?
The President has said he would be
proud to shut down our government,
and, well, I have to say there is noth-
ing—nothing—to be proud of about any
of this. The President can—the Presi-
dent must—put an end to this shut-
down.
Look, the way out of this is pretty
straightforward. The votes are not
there in either the House or the Senate
to make Americans pay the bill for
President Trump’s wasteful border
wall.
Signing a bipartisan government
funding bill to reopen the government
is the only responsible way forward.
The only thing he is doing by refusing
to back down is hurting Americans like
the families I represent in New Mexico,
like the people who work along our
southern border. They expect and de-
serve so much better than this irre-
sponsible—this preventable—shutdown.
President Trump has all the power to
end this madness right now. I will say
this one last time. Mr. President, if
you are listening, listen to the Amer-
ican people. Listen to the people who
work for you and me and this entire
Nation whom you are you hurting. Do
the right thing and end this now.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, will the
Senator yield for a question?
Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, I will.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, prior to
Senator MARKEY, I wanted to ask Sen-
ator HEINRICH this: If I heard correctly,
you indicated that half a million New
Mexicans are currently participating
in the SNAP program.
Mr. HEINRICH. That is correct.
Mr. KAINE. What is the total popu-
lation of New Mexico?
Mr. HEINRICH. A little over 2 mil-
lion people.
Mr. KAINE. So nearly one-quarter of
the State is participating in the Food
Stamp Program that is jeopardized by
this shutdown.
To the Senator from New Mexico, are
you aware that 95 percent of the em-
ployees of the Agency that administers
SNAP have been sent home and fur-
loughed? Are you aware of that?
Mr. HEINRICH. I was aware of that.
Mr. KAINE. That is causing problems
not only for your half a million but for
any new family who falls into hunger
and needs to apply for SNAP every day.
Mr. HEINRICH. Thank you.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I yield the
floor to the Senator from Massachu-
setts.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I thank
the Senator from Virginia and I thank
the Senator from New Hampshire for
their great leadership on this issue.
Just talking about SNAP very brief-
ly, 50 percent of all children in the
United States, at some point in their
lives, are going to be on SNAP, are
going to need some help to eat so they
can avoid hunger—50 percent of all
children. So we are playing games with
the program that is central to the lives
of millions of families across this coun-
try, and we are playing out this entire
drama in an all-too-familiar scene.
For the third time in just 2 years of
the Trump Presidency, we are once
more in the midst of a government
shutdown. It is important to remember
how we got here.
In December, the Senate majority
leader brought to the floor a temporary
funding bill to keep the Federal Gov-
ernment open. It passed this Chamber
unanimously. Everyone—all 100 Sen-
ators at the time—agreed that, at the
very least, it was important to keep
the government open while we debate
the issue of border security and immi-
gration reform.
So why on Earth is the government
shut down? Well, simply because Presi-
dent Trump has decided to hold the
government hostage because he didn’t
get funding for a costly, ineffective
wall. Shutting down the government
over billions of dollars for a wall is like
canceling the World Series because
your team didn’t make it.
At nearly 3 weeks into the Trump
shutdown, we can track and see the
devastating effects of the President’s
hostage-taking. Some 800,000 Federal
employees are going without pay, and
the longer this goes on, the more their
worries mount. Mortgages, student
loan payments, car payments, heating
bills, food on the table—President
Trump may operate from crisis to cri-
sis, but countless American families
are living paycheck to paycheck.
I have heard from many of the indi-
viduals and families who are part of
the approximately 7,800 Federal work-
ers across Massachusetts, and they are
rightfully anxious about how they will
make ends meet. Twenty-two percent
of Federal employees in Massachusetts
are veterans—22 percent. So how does
Donald Trump repay thousands of indi-
viduals who have served and sacrificed
for their country? By not paying them.
Let’s be clear about who these work-
ers are. They are janitors, cafeteria
workers, secretaries, security guards.
WORK, Incorporated, is the largest em-
ployer of individuals with disabilities
in New England under the Federal
AbilityOne Program. It employs hun-
dreds of individuals with significant
disabilities who work across Federal
facilities in the region, but because of
the Trump shutdown, they aren’t going
to work. If they are not working, they
are not being paid, and they are not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.036 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S57
January 8, 2019
providing the critical services which
are needed for families in New England
and across the whole country.
We have gone from Mexico paying for
the border wall to Americans going
without pay. That is how absurd the
President is being in terms of who ulti-
mately winds up paying the price for
his campaign promises.
What is more, the Trump shutdown
reaches beyond workers and empty
paychecks.
The shutdown of the Environmental
Protection Agency means almost all of
the 516 employees in EPA region 1,
which includes New England, have been
furloughed. That has halted cleanup of
rivers and other brownfields all across
our region. It endangers the water, the
air, all of the work that is done to pro-
tect the 13 million people who live in
New England.
It means the Federal investigation
into the deadly September 13 natural
gas explosions and fires in Merrimack
Valley is suspended and residents are
left waiting for answers. The Trump
shutdown is shutting down justice for
the residents of Lawrence and Andover
and North Andover because that inves-
tigation is now suspended.
We are heading for absolute catas-
trophe if the shutdown stretches on
much longer as millions of vulnerable,
low-income Americans relying on the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program—or SNAP—may have had
their benefits cut severely. That is
going to put 764,000 of the poorest Mas-
sachusetts residents at risk of hunger.
President Trump may think it is OK
to furlough workers, but he can’t fur-
lough hunger, he can’t furlough dirty
drinking water, he can’t furlough pipe-
line accidents. We need an open gov-
ernment to prevent these things from
happening.
In just a few hours, we will hear from
the President. He will go on TV tonight
and present a fear and hate-ridden case
about a manufactured national secu-
rity emergency at our border.
The irony is, the longer President
Trump extends this government shut-
down, the more insecure and unsafe
American families become because
Federal workers aren’t there to protect
them against the things that they
work every day to ensure that each and
every family in our country are spared
from—the pain that otherwise would be
inflicted.
So the Department of Homeland Se-
curity is one of the agencies the Presi-
dent has shut down. An outsized num-
ber of Transportation Security Agency
screeners and agents who screen and
apprehend dangerous suspects at air-
ports are calling in sick rather than
work without pay. Some have even
quit.
Sadly, our own American President
is the architect of this crisis. The truth
is, there are more Americans today
going without their paycheck than im-
migrants who illegally crossed the
southern border in the past 2 years.
Trump has completely manufactured
this emergency, but there is an im-
pending one if this Trump shutdown
continues and Americans are left with-
out government services. So let’s end
this.
To my Republican colleagues, let’s
pass the bipartisan legislation to re-
open the government. You supported it
before; support it again. Raise your
voices. Let’s put people back to work,
and let’s provide certainty for the
American public.
Once again, I thank Senator KAINE
and Senator SHAHEEN for their leader-
ship in organizing this very important
colloquy.
I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I rise
today to join my colleagues in calling
for an end to this senseless government
shutdown. I, too, want to thank my
friend and colleague from New Hamp-
shire as well as my friend from Vir-
ginia for their leadership in bringing us
together tonight to speak about the
need to move forward and end this
shutdown.
All across our country, Americans
are feeling the impact of this shut-
down, and government services people
rely on have been put to a halt.
In New Hampshire, our farmers were
relieved last month at the passage of
the farm bill. Now, thanks to the shut-
down, they are again facing uncer-
tainty that they may not receive the
financial assistance they need to help
them operate.
Our craft breweries, which contribute
to our economy, are unable to move
forward with new projects because the
brewers can’t get the projects approved
through the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax
and Trade Bureau.
At the White Mountain National For-
est, some visitors’ services are closed,
and at this amazingly beautiful na-
tional resource, trash is piling up.
Additionally, the shutdown is cre-
ating safety concerns with regard to
air travel. The Airline Pilots Associa-
tion International recently wrote to
the President to say that the shutdown
is ‘‘adversely affecting the safety, secu-
rity and efficiency of our national air-
space system.’’
We know this shutdown is impacting
our Federal workforce. These are law
enforcement officers, border security
agents, members of our Coast Guard,
workers from our National Park Serv-
ice, TSA agents, and so many other
people who dedicate their lives to serv-
ing their fellow citizens, but because of
the shutdown, many workers are
scrambling to make ends meet.
President Trump has said these
workers can simply ‘‘make adjust-
ments’’ to stay financially secure, but
in making such a claim, the President
grossly ignores the reality that hard-
working Americans face. What an out-
of-touch statement.
One missed paycheck can be the dif-
ference between people being able to
put food on the table or not, of making
their monthly mortgage payments, of
affording their medications.
If, as the President suggests, the
shutdown drags on for months or even
years, those hardships to our families
and our economy will grow as pay-
checks continue to be delayed.
It doesn’t have to be this way. Last
week, the House of Representatives
passed bills that have received substan-
tial support from Members of both par-
ties in the Senate and would reopen the
government immediately. Those in-
cluded robust funding for border secu-
rity, funding to support commonsense
improvements, including better tech-
nology that border agents say they
need. Unfortunately, the President is
more focused on campaign slogans than
on strengthening border security based
on the facts on the ground. As a result,
the President has created a crisis for
families across the country, including
for the border protection agents and
law enforcement officers whose duty it
is to protect us.
The fact is that we can keep our
country safe while also reopening our
government. That is why Leader
MCCONNELL must bring the bipartisan
bills that have passed the House to the
Senate floor and the President must
sign them into law.
In the meantime, I am focused on en-
suring that our Federal workforce gets
the pay that they deserve and that
they have earned. That is why I have
joined with a bipartisan group of col-
leagues on legislation to ensure that
any government employee furloughed
as a result of this shutdown or any fu-
ture ones will be paid retroactively as
soon as appropriations are restored. I
cosponsored legislation that would
fund Coast Guard operations during
lapses in appropriations—including
pay—for members of the Coast Guard.
Mr. President, it is time for these
games to end. We need to keep pro-
viding the government services that
Americans rely on, and the people who
provide these services deserve stability
not only for their own sake but for that
of the people and country they serve.
More broadly, the American people de-
serve to know our government can op-
erate effectively without these con-
stant games and irresponsible tactics
from the President.
Let’s move on from this shutdown.
Let’s reopen our government.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Thank you, Mr.
President.
First, I want to thank my colleague
from Virginia, Mr. KAINE, for bringing
us together this evening on the floor of
the Senate to talk about the urgent
need to end the government shutdown
because of the mounting toll it is tak-
ing on the American public and on Fed-
eral employees who are going without
paychecks at this very moment.
This is a shutdown that President
Trump said he would be ‘‘proud’’ to put
in place, but I think, if he begins to
look around and see the consequences,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.038 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S58 January 8, 2019
he has to ask himself what he means
by being proud.
Just yesterday, I had a roundtable
discussion with many Federal workers
in my State of Maryland. I wish Presi-
dent Trump had been there at the
roundtable to hear what these public
servants had to say. Maybe if he had
listened, he would know that a govern-
ment shutdown is nothing anybody
should be proud of. I want to share
some of the stories my constituents
shared with me yesterday, and I hope
President Trump is listening to all of
us here this evening.
Tyra was one of the people who came
yesterday. She works for the Court
Services and Offender Supervision
Agency. She has to keep reporting to
work every day, but she is not getting
a paycheck. Tyra talked about the
challenges of juggling the cost of medi-
cine, food, and gas for her daily com-
mute to a job where she is not getting
paid right now. She told me yesterday:
‘‘I am trying to figure out how to get
my child lunch.’’ That is what the
shutdown means for Tyra.
I heard the President say the other
day: ‘‘I can relate, and I am sure that
the people that are on the receiving
end will make adjustments. They al-
ways do.’’ That is the President of the
United States saying he can relate to
these hard-working Federal employees
who are now going without a paycheck.
Someone needs to tell the President
that in the United States of America,
40 percent of our fellow citizens lack
the $400 in their bank account that
would be needed for an emergency. So
when you are talking about skipping a
pay period, you are talking about thou-
sands of families who are not going to
be able to make ends meet. Mr. Trump
can hang out at Trump Tower, and he
can fly down to Mar-a-Lago, but it is
pretty clear that one thing he cannot
do is relate to the people who are going
without a paycheck right now but who
have bills they have to pay.
Another individual who joined us
yesterday was Trish. Trish is an aero-
space engineer at NASA. Trish is try-
ing to buy a home, but the shutdown is
throwing a wrench in those plans be-
cause her mortgage company, not sur-
prisingly, says that they need current
pay stubs from her in order to close on
her purchase. What can she tell them?
She doesn’t have any current pay stubs
coming in, so she may not be able to
get that mortgage.
Mary works at the Commodity Fu-
tures Trading Commission, the CFTC.
She told us about the important work
CFTC does to safeguard the financial
system against financial wrongdoing
and fraud. She explained that because
of this shutdown, the CFTC cannot pur-
sue legal cases against bad actors who
were defrauding American consumers
and that they have had to ask the
courts to suspend those cases.
So I guess the shutdown is good for
those who are trying to take advantage
of our fellow citizens through various
financial schemes. It certainly is not
fair to those who are working hard and
playing by the rules and who want to
do the public’s business, like our Fed-
eral employees.
Mary said that because of the shut-
down, she has had to make some dif-
ficult decisions in her own household.
Mary’s mother was recently widowed,
and the shutdown is hurting her ability
to help her mother make do during this
tough time.
Before I had this forum with a num-
ber of Federal employees who have
been shut out of work, I visited Prince
George’s Community College in Mary-
land. It is a great community college.
The president of that community col-
lege is Dr. Dukes. As I was going to
meet Dr. Dukes, I met a mom on the
elevator. The mom had been there to
talk about her daughter who is en-
rolled there. It turned out that her
mother is a Federal employee who has
been shut out of the Department of
Commerce. Then I talked to Dr. Dukes,
and the president of this great commu-
nity college told me that she has been
getting phone calls all week from par-
ents who have students enrolled at
Prince George’s Community College
who are on a monthly installment pay-
ment plan, and they are calling the
president of this community college
and saying: What are we going to be
able to do? We are not going to be able
to make our next payment on our
child’s community college tuition bill.
Just today, I got a number of letters
from air traffic controllers in Mary-
land. They, like thousands of other
Federal employees, are working every
day right now, but they are not getting
paid for it.
Tension is mounting, frustration is
mounting for the air traffic control-
lers, a lot of Federal law enforcement
officers, and the people at the border,
our border security. So, Mr. President,
you don’t know how to relate to these
fellow Americans who are struggling
because of your shutdown.
In the Senate, our failure to take up
the bills that have already passed the
House and are sitting right here in the
Senate to reopen the Federal Govern-
ment is making this Senate complicit
in this Trump shutdown. Every day
that goes by where we don’t make our
first order of business ending the shut-
down makes the Senate an accomplice
in the Trump shutdown. The House
made it its first order of business to
say: Let’s reopen government. They
passed two bills. Both bills have over-
whelming support for their components
here in the Senate.
I have the first bill they passed right
here in my hand. H.J. Res. 1 says to
open the Department of Homeland Se-
curity at current funding levels
through February 8 while we negotiate
the best way to provide border secu-
rity. This is on the Senate calendar.
We can vote on this tonight. Of course,
the irony here is that this Senate, just
before the Christmas break, voted on
exactly this measure. We voted on a bi-
partisan basis to open the Homeland
Security Department at current levels
through February 8 while we negotiate.
We have already done it. So why are we
not taking up this bill this evening?
The other bill that passed the Senate
I have right here in my hand. It is also
on the Senate calendar. This bill that
passed the House on their opening day
would open eight of the nine Depart-
ments that are closed. The first bill
would open the Department of Home-
land Security, while we negotiate,
until February 8. The other bill opens
eight of the nine other Federal Depart-
ments that have been closed.
Here is the kicker: The House did not
adopt the House appropriations levels.
The House looked at what the Senate
had passed on a bipartisan basis either
here on the Senate floor or in the Sen-
ate Appropriations Committee, and
they took the Senate funding levels to
open those eight Departments through
the entire fiscal year, through Sep-
tember 30.
Mr. President, we all have a very
simple question: Why is the majority
leader and why are our Republican col-
leagues not bringing up those House
bills that are sitting right here in the
Senate? We have already supported
those bills on a bipartisan basis. We
can pass these bills to reopen the gov-
ernment tonight, and there is no ex-
cuse for not doing it.
I am going to close by sharing the
comments of one of the other individ-
uals who joined me yesterday at that
gathering. His name is Otis Johnson.
He works here at the National Gallery
of Art. His message to President
Trump: ‘‘Mr. President, if you really
can relate to how the Federal employee
is feeling, you need to go ahead and
open the government back up so our
people who want to work can get back
to work and handle America’s busi-
ness.’’
I wish President Trump was listening
to Otis and all the other hard-working
Federal employees I met with yester-
day. If he talked to them, he would
hear their stories, and he would know
they are suffering, as are the American
people who every day are losing access
to important services.
I want to again thank my colleague
from Virginia, Mr. KAINE, and my other
colleagues.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today to join my col-
leagues in voicing my sincere hope that
the President will end this senseless
shutdown.
The American people are tired of our
country being held hostage and our
economy threatened. There are real
consequences. I see it all the time. Of
course my State, unlike Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN’s State of Maryland and the State
of Virginia, may not have as high a
percentage of Federal workers, but for
every worker who has been hit by this,
it is the same story.
At our airport just this weekend, I
talked to countless TSA officers. They
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.040 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S59
January 8, 2019
said: We will continue to do our job,
but now we are not going to get paid.
You think about these people on the
frontline who are doing the work for
our country, who are keeping us safe,
and who are not getting paid because of
this senseless shutdown. You hear
about the garbage piling up in our na-
tional parks. You hear about people
having trouble paying their rent or
mortgage. You hear about the fears
about airport security lines. Everyday
Americans are affected by this as well.
Other consequences of this shutdown
are less visible but deeply painful for
those affected. There are entrepreneurs
who want to take their companies pub-
lic but can’t get approval by the SEC.
You have rural home buyers who can’t
get their mortgages backed by the Ag-
riculture Department. Farmers can’t
access critical loans or information
about how the Department will imple-
ment the new farm bill. We were so
proud to pass the new farm bill in this
Chamber on a bipartisan basis—some-
thing the President took credit for—
and now we can’t even implement it
and help our farmers as they approach
growing season in the spring. They
don’t even know what is going to hap-
pen with the new provisions of this
farm bill, especially the dairy farmers
of Minnesota, who have been hit so
hard by low prices and by the trade war
that we are in.
While this trade war is going on, we
are also going to not be able to help
them and to deny the help that vulner-
able Americans need. Funding for the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program, which helps put food on the
table for 38 million Americans, would
be severely reduced or cut off all to-
gether. The Department of Housing and
Urban Development payments that
maintain housing for 3 million Ameri-
cans could be in jeopardy.
It is time to put aside the political
games, and it is time to get in the real
game—and that is the lives of Amer-
ican people—and to stop this shutdown.
It means reopening our entire govern-
ment so we can work on the issues that
matter.
This is a time in our country when
we should not be governing from crisis.
We should be governing from oppor-
tunity. After the downturn, the econ-
omy had stabilized, and we should be
working with the rest of the world. We
should be selling our goods to market
and building the infrastructure in this
country. We should be doing something
about prescription drug prices. We
should be training our workers for the
jobs that are available today and the
jobs that will be available tomorrow.
There are simple proposals out there.
There is the Senate and the House of
Representatives legislation that passed
through this body unanimously—not a
single Senator opposed it—yet the
President suddenly changed course
and, once again, insisted that he needs
over $5 billion immediately. The new
House has now passed legislation to
fund all shuttered agencies other than
the Department of Homeland Security
through the end of the fiscal year. That
includes the Treasury Department, the
Agriculture Department, the Interior
Department—government agencies
that provide critical services. These
noncontroversial bills were originally
drafted and approved by the Senate Ap-
propriations Committee run by the Re-
publican Party. None of this makes
sense to me at all. The measures that
were passed by the House are sensible,
and they are ones that have been sup-
ported in the past by Republicans in
this Chamber.
Shutdowns are not good for the econ-
omy. I lived through the 2013 shutdown.
That was estimated to cost our econ-
omy over $20 billion. The President’s
own economic adviser, Kevin Hassett,
has estimated that this shutdown will
shrink our economy by 0.1 percent
every 2 weeks. Maybe that doesn’t
sound like much. Do you know how
much it really is? It is roughly $10 bil-
lion every single week. That is real
money for real Americans. So stop the
games.
Shutting down the government
should not be a negotiating tactic. If
President Trump were to agree to sign
the bills that the House has now passed
and every Member of the Senate sup-
ported last month, we would end this
shutdown. Instead, critical services and
our economy are being threatened with
poison pill partisanship.
To my colleagues in the Senate, I say
this: Let’s get this done. We owe it to
the people whom we were elected to
serve. We owe it to the country. As one
former Congresswoman once said,
America should be as good as its prom-
ise. This is a promise we made to them
when we were elected—to do the best
for them and to serve our country.
Let’s get it done.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Colorado.
Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, I rise
tonight to talk about the government
shutdown. I thank my colleague from
Minnesota for her remarks. I remember
the 2013 shutdown that she talked
about. The reason I remember that is
that while this place was shut down by
the Senator from Texas, my State was
under water from some of the worst
floods we had ever seen, and there were
people at every level of government—
the local level, county government, the
State level—coming together to work
with FEMA, coming together to work
with religious organizations, coming
together to work with ordinary people
to literally dig themselves out of the
mud and the rocks that were the con-
sequence of floods we had never seen
before. I had to stand there almost like
a fool explaining that the Federal Gov-
ernment was shut down for politics,
and here we are again.
For 10 years, I have come to this
floor and said over and over that this
place had become the land of flickering
lights. The standard of success was
only whether we kept the lights on for
one more day or one more week. The
standard of success had nothing to do
with whether we invested in the next
generation of Americans and had noth-
ing to do with what America’s place in
the world was, and tonight, 18 days
later, we are shut down.
Just like in Minnesota and just like
in New Hampshire, people in Colorado
are suffering as a result of this. This
shutdown is inflicting real harm on
people who are Federal workers who
can’t pay their mortgage, can’t take
care of their kids, can’t hire a plumber.
We heard today that the EPA is only
getting paid half of their paycheck.
You can’t pay only half your mortgage.
You can’t go to the grocery store and
pay only half your bill. We have farm-
ers and ranchers all over the State of
Colorado who can’t get operating loans
from the FSA to buy seed or fertilizer.
We have had FEMA meetings can-
celed and critical projects delayed that
are vital to our rebuilding after the
2013 flood, the last time there was a
long shutdown like this. After a ter-
rible fire year in Colorado, the Forest
Service can’t move forward with new
projects or reduce wildfire risks in our
communities.
Rocky Mountain National Park is
closed. Why do people from Estes Park
have to bear the burden of the stu-
pidity of this place—the inability to
govern like every other entity in
America governs, where you could
never shut down your local government
and you could never shut down your
school district? But for some reason,
you can do it over politics. In this case,
why? It is over a mnemonic device that
the Trump campaign supplied to can-
didate Trump—the wall—and two
things that weren’t true: one, that
Mexico would pay for the wall. If he
had fulfilled that promise, we wouldn’t
be here because there wouldn’t be a
need for $5 billion because the Mexi-
cans would pay for this wall. That is
what he said over and over. It was ob-
jectively not true, just as it is not true
that what is needed is the wall that he
has proposed.
We had a bill here in 2013 that 68 Sen-
ators voted for. That bill had $46 bil-
lion of border security in it, 350 miles
of fencing on the southern border, in-
ternal security, and fixed our visa sys-
tem—far more effective than the inef-
fective wall that the President is try-
ing to build now for $5 billion. He can’t
even spend the money that has already
been appropriated, and now he has shut
the government down for $5 billion to
keep a campaign promise that is not
true. It wasn’t true then, and it is not
true now.
This is ridiculous. Last week, China
marked the New Year by landing a
spacecraft on the dark side of the
Moon. That has never happened before
in human history. Here in the United
States, while they were accomplishing
that, we had a government shutdown.
Close observers might say—and they
would be right—that NASA—which, by
the way, is closed—marked New Year’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.042 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S60 January 8, 2019
Day by successfully flying the New Ho-
rizons probe past an object 4 billion
miles away. We should celebrate that
achievement, but let’s also remember
that mission was 18 years in the mak-
ing because people planned for the fu-
ture. An American craft is literally on
the outer edge of human discovery, and
last week we were shut down while the
Chinese landed their craft on the other
side of the Moon. Because of the
fecklessness of people in this body, we
can’t even put an astronaut into space
now. We have to call up the Russians
and ask them to put us on a rocket to
take us up there. Do you think our par-
ents and grandparents would have
stood for that?
There was a unanimous vote in this
Chamber, and it passed in the other
Chamber. We should reopen the govern-
ment. This is doing too much damage
to the country, and the President
should understand that part of his job
of being President is keeping the gov-
ernment open, not cheering it when it
is closed.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
Mr. JONES. Mr. President, first of
all, let me say how much I appreciate
my colleagues on the floor—particu-
larly, Senator BENNET’s comments—
and the passion that everyone has
shown for the people in this country
and why we are here for the people that
we represent, whether they voted for us
or not. That is not the issue. We are
here to represent all the people, and I
really appreciate those incredible
words from my colleagues and, particu-
larly, the passion shown by Senator
BENNET.
I am rising today to give my voice to
the thousands of Alabamians who are
also suffering as a result of this gov-
ernment shutdown. It is not just the
folks who are employed but those who
are affected by this shutdown by what-
ever means necessary.
There are people who are not em-
ployed by the government who are also
affected. In the midst of all the polit-
ical posturing that we have seen, the
costly government shutdown has hurt
over 5,100 Alabama workers, their fami-
lies, and the people who rely on them
to do their job. Thousands more are
contractors who will not get backpay.
Unlike the Federal workers, who tradi-
tionally get backpay, these contractors
who are not working now because there
is no work to be had with the Federal
Government will not get backpay from
their employers.
Our Coast Guard employees, who
aren’t paid through the Department of
Defense budget that passed last year,
don’t know whether their paycheck
will come or not. By the way, it is the
Coast Guard who is interdicting so
much of the illegal drugs that are at-
tempting to come into this country. It
is not the southern border. It is the
Coast Guard, which we are putting at
risk, that is doing the best job of inter-
dicting the illegal drugs that are at-
tempting to come into this country.
These folks pay the price of this
shutdown while this political drama
that we have seen in Washington, DC,
drags on and on—on cable TV, on Twit-
ter, and on other social media plat-
forms. These folks are hard-working
Alabamians who keep our airports safe.
They protect our communities. They
monitor our prisons.
We have three Federal prisons in Ala-
bama. Three of the workers in the
Aliceville prison were on CNN today
talking about the effects on them and
their community in Aliceville, AL.
These are people who support our na-
tional defense, like folks in Redstone
Arsenal and at all of the military bases
in our State. They support the aero-
space programs in our State. These are
the folks who are getting hurt. Many of
these people are veterans who have
gone on to serve their country a second
time by working in Federal service.
Most of these folks support strong
border security. I venture to guess that
all of them support strong border secu-
rity. Some will support the wall, as the
President has described it, but they
don’t agree with—they don’t support—
shutting down the Government of the
United States of America in a way to
just get that wall or that border secu-
rity done. They do not support that at
the expense of their communities and
their families.
Over the past 18 days or so since this
shutdown, I have heard from any num-
ber of my constituents. They call the
office here in Washington, and they
call the offices in Huntsville, in Mo-
bile, in Birmingham, and in Mont-
gomery. They talk about how they are
hurting already because of the shut-
down.
One constituent who wrote to me is a
small business owner in North Ala-
bama, near Huntsville, whose 30-plus
employees have provided very impor-
tant, continuous support for NASA pro-
grams for the past 7 years. As their
work gets delayed or stopped alto-
gether, these folks don’t know whether
they are going to have jobs. If their
work stops, those employees are going
to need jobs, and they are going to
start looking for other jobs. In the
economy that we have now, in which
unemployment is low, people are look-
ing for workers, and they are going to
find those jobs. So his business may get
shut down.
There is a military spouse who also
works for the Federal Government
whose husband is deployed to Afghani-
stan right now. She also wrote to me
and urged an end to this shutdown. She
said that while she supports the wall,
she doesn’t believe that Federal em-
ployees should be used as bargaining
chips just to get it done. She said that
a lapse in funding would be devastating
for her job and that her family needs
the paychecks to cover these bills. This
is a family that is already living under
stress with its having a husband and fa-
ther in Afghanistan. This family
doesn’t need the extra stress.
On behalf of her family of four in
Smiths Station, AL, another mother
wrote to me about her family’s lapse in
healthcare coverage since the shut-
down because the employees at a Fed-
eral health insurance agency, GEHA,
have been furloughed. Her family’s
change in coverage was never fully
processed by the end of the year. So it
lapsed and was canceled as of Decem-
ber 31. The family members are now
facing important medical decisions—
appointments, prescriptions, refills in
the next few weeks—but don’t know if
they are going to have the insurance to
cover it.
The administration announced today
that the deadline for farmers to receive
their subsidies, because of the adminis-
tration’s trade policies, will be ex-
tended, which all sounds really great.
It sounds all good and well. We are
going to extend it. We are going to put
a bandaid on this for our farmers.
These farmers have been hit hard by
the trade war that this administration
has started, which I have talked about
on the floor of the Senate on any num-
ber of occasions and around my State.
To ease that pain, a few months ago
the administration decided to allocate
$12 billion as almost a bailout. Now,
these farmers really don’t want these
handouts. They want their markets.
Yet, to ease their pain, to its credit,
the administration came up with $12
billion to ease that pain. Less than half
of that amount—roughly, about $5.2
billion in payments—was made before
the Department of Agriculture’s local
offices were closed. While extending
that deadline sounds very good and is,
simply, putting a bandaid over the
wound, the fact is that until we get
this government open, farmers who did
not get their payments in before this
shutdown are going to have a problem.
Another problem with the shutdown
is that they can’t depend on the Fed-
eral Government any more than they
can depend on the weather. These
farmers are at risk every season, every
year, of things that are out of their
control. What they don’t need is a gov-
ernment that they cannot depend on,
and that is what we have right now.
They are out of luck at a time at which
they need it the most, as they are
starting to plan for their spring plant-
ing and summer planting—their loans,
their crops, buying the seed—as Sen-
ator BENNET talked about a few mo-
ments ago.
There is one constituent who wrote
me a really heartbreaking letter about
the impact of losing her SNAP benefits
after January 31 if the shutdown con-
tinues. She is living on a razor’s edge
financially and depends on Social Secu-
rity disability benefits and SNAP dol-
lars to survive. It is not a lot of money
on a monthly basis. It is such a small
amount of money that folks in this
body and folks in the House and, cer-
tainly, the folks in the administration
wouldn’t think twice about it. It is
probably less than they spend at
Starbucks every morning, but, for her,
it is an incredibly important part of
her life, and we have to make sure that
we do everything not to let her down.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.043 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S61
January 8, 2019
I did see, just before I came over
here, that the administration has said
that we are going to extend it. We are
going to make sure that SNAP benefits
are paid in February. Again, that is
great and sounds wonderful, but it is a
bandaid. Sooner or later, if we don’t
end up doing something about this
shutdown, that bandaid is going to be
ripped off, and these folks are going to
be left in the cold once again.
We need to remember—and I think
this gets lost sometimes in the talk
about this shutdown—that this is not
just about the paychecks and the di-
rect benefits that people in this coun-
try receive from the Federal Govern-
ment. It also affects all of those people
in our communities who serve those
who work for the government—those
who take in their grocery money and
take in their utility money and take in
their gas money. It is going to affect
those people. It is going to affect car
dealers, and it is going to affect local
businesses. It is just like the folks at
the prison in Aliceville said today,
which is that sooner or later, if they
don’t have money to spend around
Aliceville, it is going to affect that
community. This touches so many peo-
ple in this country that we need not
lose sight of that.
The letters and calls and voice mails
are pouring in every day as this shut-
down continues. More and more Ameri-
cans face the increasing consequences
of the impasse that we see here in
Washington, DC. There is, simply put,
no excuse for it. We can and must do
better. We can and must find the com-
mon ground that so many of us talk
about. Every day, over and over, we
talk about finding common ground, but
we have to practice what we preach in
terms of finding that common ground.
This past year, I talked to a number
of my constituents back home who had
gone through a number of issues. I
talked to a lot of people who asked me
to support the wall. They stopped me
over the holidays, and I would always
stop and talk to them. They were al-
ways very respectful, unlike with some
things that happen in our political dis-
course today. These people were always
very respectful, and we had nice con-
versations. When I asked them what
they were talking about, they said that
I needed to vote for a wall.
They said: We just need border secu-
rity, Senator. We need border security.
This gave me the opportunity to say:
I completely agree.
Unfortunately, the so-called ‘‘wall’’
that we keep hearing about, primarily
on Twitter, has really become just a
metaphor to support a secure border.
To oppose it is to oppose a secure bor-
der. That makes no sense. What is get-
ting lost in this debate is that every
Member of this body wants secure bor-
ders. Every Member of this body and
every Member of the House wants bor-
der security measures that will keep
our communities safe. We might have
disagreements about the best way to
make sure our borders are secure, and
we might have disagreements on what
border security will look like, but it
doesn’t mean that we want open bor-
ders as I keep hearing from the admin-
istration. That is a preposterous state-
ment.
In fact, in the last Congress, we had
one of the President’s nominees before
us for the head of ICE. He used to work
on the border. He was there. He con-
trolled it. He was the head of border se-
curity.
I asked him in the hearing: Have you
ever heard one politician—have you
ever heard anybody in Washington,
DC—say that he is for open borders?
He said: No, sir, not at all.
We have to get away from that polit-
ical posturing so that we can find the
common ground that is necessary to
move this forward. The fact of the mat-
ter is that we have found common
ground. We have found that common
ground right here in this body.
Last February, in the midst of bipar-
tisan talks on more comprehensive im-
migration reform, a number of senior
administration officials came to the
Senate and briefed Members on the sit-
uation at the border. They outlined
how an infusion of money in the con-
text of a larger piece of legislation
could improve security and conditions
for asylum seekers and on the border.
In the wake of that presentation—if I
recall correctly, they proposed a $25
billion price tag for border security—
Republicans and Democrats alike,
which was a majority of the U.S. Sen-
ate, voted to include that $25 billion in
border security funding over the next
decade. That was a bipartisan effort.
Over the course of the last spring and
early summer, the U.S. Senate Appro-
priations Committee—led by my col-
league from Alabama, Senator SHELBY,
and by Senator LEAHY, the ranking
member—passed a bipartisan Home-
land Security funding bill by a vote of
25 to 5. It did that in June of this year.
It included $1.6 billion in border secu-
rity funding, which was on top of the
$1.3 billion, I think, that was funded
last year. What has started this whole
process today is the administration’s
demand of a blank check of $5.6 billion
for a wall as the price to reopen the
government. That is, simply, not how
our government should work.
Now, candidly and in all fairness, in
recent days, we have gone from an ar-
gument that was just, simply, about
dollars and cents on both sides of the
aisle—5.6 versus 1.6 or 1.3—to where we
have now seen the administration
begin to slowly roll out how it would
actually spend that money. There was
no plan in the beginning. It was just
‘‘send us $5.6 billion.’’ We are learning
about that plan via Twitter and on the
TV talk shows, not the way this body
is used to getting information from the
administration—through a budget
process or through some proposal
about which you can ask questions and
can vet.
If the administration is serious about
border security—and it should be seri-
ous about border security, just like the
Senate of the United States and the
House of Representatives of the United
States should be serious about border
security—we should reopen the rest of
the government. Officials should also
come back to the Hill, like they did in
February, and brief Members of both
parties in Congress about what is need-
ed and of exactly the new border secu-
rity money and how it will be spent.
This week, the House has been voting
on a series—or will be voting on a se-
ries—of funding bills that the Senate
has already passed, many by a vote of
92 to 6. Think about that. As I travel
around the State, I tell people all the
time what I saw last year—my first
year—which is that there is so much
more bipartisanship in this body that
you don’t see just by watching C–SPAN
and listening to dueling press con-
ferences. There is a lot of it that goes
on, and we passed those bills by 92 to 6.
These bills will ensure that the Fed-
eral employees and contractors can go
back to work and can get paid, that
food assistance and housing vouchers
can go forward, that vital research can
be done, that our parks and museums
can reopen, that our airports are safe,
and that our prisons are monitored. In-
stead of handing political appointees a
10-percent raise, it will ensure that we
will pay the Coast Guard, whose mem-
bers continue to serve throughout this
shutdown without knowing if their
next paychecks are going to come.
I am literally sad to say—and I really
hope people will take this into account,
especially the folks who have been here
for a long time—that in my first year
here, my first year in the Senate, this
is the third government shutdown that
we have seen. We should be embar-
rassed about that, and the administra-
tion should be embarrassed about that.
At every opportunity, I have voted to
keep the government open. I can’t say
that I would do it every time, because
it will depend on the circumstances,
but, thus far, I have done all I can to
keep this government open.
The American people are frustrated
and disheartened by the dysfunction
and empty rhetoric that they hear out
of this town, but we have to remember
that the Senate of the United States
has done its job and done so in a delib-
erative and bipartisan way. No one on
either side of the political aisle should
lose sight of that.
We came together and found common
ground, and we should insist that the
President of the United States not only
acknowledge that but honor that, get
this government up and running, and
let’s sit down to continue to discuss
the plans for the border security that
we all know is necessary and we would
like.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
f
TRIBUTE TO BILL CUNNINGHAM
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
February 1, the Kentucky Supreme
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.044 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S62 January 8, 2019
Court will bid farewell to a towering
figure in our State’s judiciary, Justice
Bill Cunningham. A Lyon County na-
tive, Bill announced he would retire
from the high court at the beginning of
next month, bringing to a close a ca-
reer of public service that has spanned
more than half of his life. I would like
to take a moment to join his col-
leagues, his family, and his community
in western Kentucky in congratulating
Bill on this remarkable milestone and
to thank him for his service to the
Commonwealth.
Bill first answered the call to service
early in his life. Once he graduated
from Murray State University and the
University of Kentucky College of Law,
Bill enlisted in the Army, nobly serv-
ing our Nation in uniform in Vietnam,
Korea, and Germany. Upon his return
to Kentucky, Bill decided to put his
legal education to work for the men
and women of his community. For the
last 45 years, he has done just that.
Working in various courtrooms as
the Eddyville City attorney, public de-
fender for the Kentucky State Peniten-
tiary, and the 56th judicial district’s
Commonwealth’s attorney, Bill earned
the esteem of his colleagues. In fact,
his peers voted him the ‘‘Outstanding
Commonwealth’s Attorney for Ken-
tucky.’’
Beginning in 1991, Bill moved to the
other side of the bench when he was
first elected as a circuit court judge in
western Kentucky, serving in Caldwell,
Livingston, Lyon, and Trigg Counties.
He was then elected to the Kentucky
Supreme Court in 2006. On the high
court, Bill represents 24 counties in
western Kentucky. His constituents re-
warded Bill’s accomplished service by
reelecting him to a second term in 2014.
In addition to his dedicated leader-
ship in our Commonwealth’s legal sys-
tem, Bill has written six books on Ken-
tucky history and is a frequent con-
tributor to local newspapers. He is also
known as a captivating speaker, and I
hope he will continue to share his per-
spective with audiences even in retire-
ment.
As Bill’s tenure on the Kentucky Su-
preme Court comes to a close, I would
like to express my sincere gratitude for
his lifetime of service to his commu-
nity, our Commonwealth, and our
country. In retirement, Bill said he
looks forward to spending more time
with his wife Paula, their five children,
and their 15 grandchildren. I extend my
best wishes to the entire Cunningham
family, and I ask my Senate colleagues
to help me congratulate Justice Bill
Cunningham for his service to Ken-
tucky.
Mr. President, the Paducah Sun re-
cently published a column congratu-
lating Bill on his retirement. I ask
unanimous consent that the article be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Paducah Sun, Dec. 30, 2018]
JUSTICE SERVED
(By Joshua Robert)
Often loquacious and poignant, Kentucky
Supreme Court Justice Bill Cunningham
struggled Thursday to find the right words
summarizing the coming sunset to his ca-
reer, emotion seeping through his typically
laid-back demeanor.
‘‘I’m just very grateful—I’m trying to say
this without getting choked up here—to the
Almighty for giving me the strength to
(serve the public),’’ the justice told a Sun re-
porter. ‘‘I’m so grateful for the people of
west Kentucky for giving me this wonderful
opportunity.’’
That Cunningham, a state Supreme Court
justice for 12 years, paired his deity with the
residents of his native and beloved western
Kentucky is not surprising, nor is the affec-
tion one-way.
The judge, folksy and often dressed in his
trademark seersucker suit, cuts a popular
figure. An accomplished jurist, engaging ora-
tor and celebrated author, Cunningham is as
Kentucky as they come, though in our opin-
ion, uncommon in the commonwealth.
Cunningham, 74, of Kuttawa, announced
Thursday that he’ll be leaving the Supreme
Court on Feb. 1, ending a career in public
service that’s spanned more than half his
life. He considered his exit from the high
court for more than a year and was unsettled
by the prospect of leaving halfway through
his second term.
But the ‘‘constant bombardment of human
woe and suffering’’ he’s seen and heard from
the bench proved too much to continue. The
judge, who felt compelled by duty, did what
good judges are supposed to—he cast aside
personal feelings to make the wisest decision
possible, his self-assessment unsparing that
he’s not at his best.
‘‘You’ve got to be emotionally strong to
continue,’’ Cunningham said, ‘‘and I’m just
worn out with it.’’
The judge said he doesn’t know what he’ll
do next, but it’ll be something of service to
the people of western Kentucky.
‘‘I’m going to stay engaged,’’ he said. ‘‘I’m
going to take a couple of months off to get
my perspective, then I’m going to do what
other people do when they’re out of a job—
I’m going to look for one.’’
‘‘I’d like to be able to serve in some capac-
ity. I just don’t know what that is right
now.’’
Running again for public office, like for a
state legislative seat, is unlikely. ‘‘I’m a di-
nosaur, and much of the political main-
stream today has passed me by,’’ he said in
his self-effacing manner.
We’ve gotten to know Cunningham over
the years, covering the justice’s speeches and
appearances and publishing his thoughtful,
well-written guest opinion pieces from time
to time. If we’re coming off as an admirer,
it’s because we are, unapologetically so.
We’ve found Justice Cunningham has ad-
mirable traits like modesty, kindness, intel-
ligence, fairness and loyalty, rare virtues
among today’s public servants. His replace-
ment will come from one of the 24 counties
within the First Supreme Court District, but
in truth, it’ll be impossible to replace
Cunningham and all he has meant to our
communities.
‘‘There’s some great timber out there, so
they’ll probably get a better justice than
what they have now,’’ he said of the judicial
nominating process. With respect to the
judge, that’s a dubious claim.
Cunningham is slated to be the guest
speaker Feb. 5 during a Paducah Lions Club
meeting at Walker Hall.
‘‘I’ll be a former judge by then, so that’s if
they don’t cancel the invitation,’’ he joked.
We have no doubt the invitation’s still
good and his speech will be captivating, as
always. After all, jobs and titles may change,
but character doesn’t.
f
TRIBUTE TO DEAN JOHNSON
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, last
month marked the end of a distin-
guished career for Laurel County clerk
Dean Johnson. Dean recently retired
after 37 years of public service to his
community, our Commonwealth, and
this country. Today I would like to
take a moment to reflect on my
friend’s many contributions to Laurel
County and to thank him for his dedi-
cation to Kentucky.
First drawn to public service at a
young age through organizations like
the Key Club and the Future Farmers
of America, Dean spent his career fo-
cused on integrity and efficiency. After
serving in the Armed Forces and for 4
years as the county’s treasurer, Dean
was elected Laurel County clerk in
1985. His leadership has brought sub-
stantial innovation and development to
this eastern Kentucky community.
In my State, a county clerk is re-
sponsible for providing a broad range of
services to Kentuckians, including ev-
erything from voter registration and
election management to licensing and
recordkeeping. During Dean’s tenure,
the Laurel County clerk’s office intro-
duced new infrastructure and imple-
mented new procedures to better serve
a growing population. Running an elec-
tion has changed quite a bit in Laurel
County since Dean entered office, but
his dedication has helped promote ac-
cess to the ballot box for more than
44,000 registered voters.
In addition to his work in Laurel
County, Dean collaborated with his
peers to share best practices in the
Kentucky County Clerks’ Association.
Earning both their trust and respect,
he served a term as the organization’s
president, helping deliver essential
services across Kentucky. Like other
county clerks, Dean supported his fel-
low veterans by repurposing license
plates into birdhouses. The products
are sold with proceeds benefiting our
Commonwealth’s veterans.
Over the years, I have enjoyed work-
ing with Dean on behalf of our con-
stituents, and I am proud to salute this
man of great accomplishment. In his
retirement, Dean plans to do more of
what he loves most: spending time with
his daughter, Teresa, and his grand-
daughter, Rebecca. He will also con-
tinue to oversee his 175-acre cattle
farm. As he begins this next chapter, I
would like to wish him the very best,
and I ask my Senate colleagues to join
me in thanking Laurel County clerk
Dean Johnson for his decades-long
service of our State.
Mr. President, the Sentinel-Echo in
London recently published a profile of
Dean’s accomplished career. I ask
unanimous consent that the article be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.013 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S63
January 8, 2019
[From the Sentinel-Echo, Dec. 26, 2018]
JOHNSON REFLECTS ON 37 YEARS OF SERVICE
(By Nita Johnson)
Society has changed drastically in the last
30 years—with technology being one of the
major advancements.
As Laurel County Clerk Dean Johnson fills
his final days in the position he has held for
33 years, he credits technology as the most
advantageous developments for his office op-
erations.
When Johnson took office as clerk in 1986,
he came from a four-year term as county
treasurer. In both offices, most paperwork
was done on typewriters—a business machine
that is now nearly obsolete. But when the
technology craze hit full force, the first as-
pect of the clerk’s office was to have com-
puterized vehicle tag registrations.
Another huge change came in the voter
registration processes—due to technological
advancements and the growth in population
over the years.
‘‘When I came in, there were only 26 pre-
cincts,’’ Johnson said. ‘‘We had those big
voting machines that were the size of a re-
frigerator.’’
Within a couple of years, however, the use
of Microvote was created—the small blue
‘‘suitcase’’ style machine used to cast votes.
‘‘We’ve moved to the self contained ma-
chines now because of the ADA (Americans
with Disabilities Act) because all the ma-
chines have to be compliant with that,’’ he
said. ‘‘The other machines were hard for peo-
ple to use if they were in a wheelchair. With
that, we had to relocate some of the pre-
cincts because some didn’t have handicapped
access.’’
Laurel County now boasts 45 precincts, all
ADA compliant.
While Johnson said he hasn’t seen a huge
increase in voter registration or turnout, he
said the division from 26 precincts in the
mid-1980s to the current 45 precincts does re-
flect on the county’s increased population.
‘‘The precincts divisions are done by the
population in the areas, not the number of
registered voters in an area,’’ he explained.
‘‘And the population is always determined by
the latest Census.’’
He feels that the Laurel County Clerk’s of-
fice has always maintained a high level of in-
tegrity and efficiency dealing with the pub-
lic for motor vehicle registrations, transfers,
voter registration and election procedures,
and maintaining the massive load of deeds,
mortgages, and other legal documents that
fall under the scope of that office. And Lau-
rel County has excelled in being some of the
first counties in the state to utilize tech-
nology to better serve the public.
‘‘We were among the first counties in the
state to create a computerized absentee bal-
lot form. I worked with a guy to simulate
the state forms,’’ he said. ‘‘Right now we
have 44,000 registered voters in the county.’’
The clerk’s office was also one of the first
offices in the county to receive and use a
FAX machine, he said, adding that the Lau-
rel County Public Library was one of the
first to offer the FAX service.
The growth in the county’s population
over the past 30 years has massively in-
creased the work load for those who serve in
that office.
‘‘When I came here in 1986, it was the 160th
year of Laurel County being established,’’
Johnson added. ‘‘There were fewer than 200
mortgage books. Now we have approximately
1,200.’’
While the workload of the deputy clerks in
the office has increased to huge proportions
over the past three decades, Johnson said the
application of technological advancements
has not caused a large increase in the em-
ployees needed in his office.
‘‘When I started, there were 10 employees
and now we have 18, so we haven’t had a big
increase in the employees because of the
computer systems,’’ he explained. ‘‘This of-
fice has come from a gross intake of $8 mil-
lion to $15.5 million and we’ve never had a
non-compliant comment in the 37 years I’ve
worked for the county.’’
Being the Laurel County Clerk required
Johnson to interact with other clerks across
the state over the years—some associations
for which he said will remain dear to his
heart.
‘‘I built a rapport with other clerks and I
was active in the Kentucky County Clerks’
Association,’’ he said. ‘‘I served one term as
president.’’
He has many other accomplishments for
which he is proud—one of which is the effi-
ciency of tabulating the votes on election
night. With that process, the election offi-
cers returning their precincts totals are met
at the back entrance of the Laurel County
Courthouse and their equipment unloaded by
persons approved by the local election com-
mission members. The officers then carry in
the case containing the printouts of the
votes and sign in for their particular pre-
cinct, which are processed in the lobby in the
ground floor near the Broad Street entrance.
The printouts are then taken to the clerk’s
office on the second floor where the employ-
ees of the clerk’s office then separate the
documents and record the votes. Although
the polls close at 6 p.m., most precincts have
submitted their results and the final count is
completed and reported by 7:30 p.m.
‘‘I’m very proud of the efficiency we have
on election night,’’ Johnson said. ‘‘That goes
to the employees in this office and the state
associations of elections for the efficient
way we process the votes and the accuracy
we have.’’
As an example, Johnson reflected on the
2016 Gubernatorial race in which Republican
candidate James Comer lost to now Gov-
ernor Matt Bevin by a mere 83 votes.
‘‘We had to do a re-canvas,’’ Johnson said.
‘‘That (statewide) re-canvas was completed
on Thursday, with the result coming out the
same, of course. We aren’t like Florida and
Georgia, that took weeks to do a re-canvas.
In fact, in national elections, Kentucky is
nearly always the first to report their re-
sults.’’
Johnson has also served as chair of the
Laurel County Republican party, stepping
down this year after four years in that posi-
tion. He also has been involved with KACo
(Kentucky Association of Counties) for 12
years, is a veteran, is a Shriner and member
of the local masonic lodges.
His interest in being a public servant came
early in his teens, being a President of his
school’s Key Club and FFA (Future Farmers
of America). He learned early on about work-
ing hard, and said he always had a drawing
toward political issues.
‘‘As a kid I liked to be active in things and
I always liked being involved in politics,’’ he
said. ‘‘There were two people in politics that
I always admired—Boyd Boggs who was a
county judge executive and later the sheriff,
and Dwight Eisenhower. Those two had given
a lot and I wanted to be able to help people.
As the clerk, you are in the position to help
people and I’ve tried to do that, not just with
questions about elections or vehicle reg-
istered. Other people just come in and ask
about different things and I always tried to
help them the best I could. I leave here with
a good feeling because I think I’ve done
that.’’
His political interests also brought him an-
other accomplishment for which he is very
proud.
‘‘I was the Laurel County campaign chair
and we brought George H.W. Bush to the
Bush community,’’ he said. ‘‘I was also the
chair when George W. Bush and (former Gov-
ernor) Ernie Fletcher came here.’’
In fact, the shelves that line a section of
Johnson’s office have a picture of the late
president, George H.W. Bush, with Johnson
when Bush visited the Bush Fire Depart-
ment. Johnson laughs when looking at the
picture now, saying, ‘‘My hair was a dif-
ferent color then.’’
Johnson is also proud of his home county
and of the many advancements that have
come to the residents of this community.
‘‘This county has been aggressive in grow-
ing and using its natural resources,’’ he said.
‘‘We’ve had good leadership and that con-
tinues on today. I hope we keep on and keep
our best and brightest here and supply them
with jobs so they can make a decent living
and stay here.’’
Johnson is also very dedicated in his
church, Calvary Baptist, where he has served
as the adult Sunday School teacher for sev-
eral years. He stands true to his beliefs—
even when that belief is not the most pop-
ular or ‘‘progressive.’’
But his greatest accomplishment—and
joy—comes from his daughter, Teresa, and
his only grandchild, Rebecca. He looks for-
ward to spending more time with them and
his son-in-law while he continues to oversee
the 175-acre farm where he raises cattle.
‘‘I’m retiring as of December 31,’’ he said.
‘‘I’m going to go home and relax.’’
f
S. 1
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President
today I rise in opposition to S. 1. We
should be working to reopen the Fed-
eral Government, not voting to in-
fringe upon Americans’ First Amend-
ment rights.
S. 1 is a package of four bills that
were introduced during the last Con-
gress. Three of the bills concern U.S.
aid to Israel and Jordan, as well as
sanctions against the Assad regime.
They are noncontroversial, and I sup-
port them.
Unfortunately, the fourth bill, which
is entitled the ‘‘Combatting BDS Act of
2019,’’ is so controversial that I am
compelled to vote against the entire
package before us tonight.
This Israel boycott legislation would
encourage States and localities to re-
strict First Amendment protections for
millions of Americans. It would do so
by tacitly endorsing State actions to
cut financial ties and terminate any
government contract with anyone who
engages in or supports boycotts of
Israel.
My grandfather arrived in the United
States as a stowaway fleeing the Polish
pogroms, and my grandmother’s family
fled Russia during the revolution.
As a young child during World War
II, I came to view Israel as a symbol
that never again will there be another
Holocaust. My support for Israel isn’t
about politics. It is about Israel’s right
to exist.
I will always support a free and
democratic Israel as the homeland of
the Jewish people. That is why I have
always voted to provide Israel the secu-
rity assistance it needs.
However, my unwavering support for
Israel does not override my support for
Americans’ constitutional rights.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.026 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S64 January 8, 2019
The right to free speech is the foun-
dation of American democracy. Any
legislation that encroaches on that
foundation should be considered with
great caution. I don’t believe that has
been the case here.
Federal courts have already ruled
against similar laws regarding boy-
cotts of Israel enacted by Arizona and
Kansas.
In Kansas, the State legislature
passed a law in 2017 requiring any indi-
vidual or company that contracts with
the State sign a certification that they
are not participating in a boycott of
Israel.
In Arizona, State law requires any
company that contracts with the State
to certify that it is not engaged in a
boycott of Israel and that it will not do
so in the future.
Federal courts in both States found
that these laws raised substantial First
Amendment concerns by infringing on
individuals’ right to political expres-
sion and issued preliminary injunctions
blocking their enforcement.
Given the courts’ rulings in Arizona
and Kansas, I fail to see why supporters
believe this legislation can be consid-
ered constitutional.
Equally alarming, the legislation
would also apply to Israeli settlements
in the West Bank, territory that Israel
has never claimed as its own.
Today, there are more than 400,000
Israelis living on 132 settlements in the
West Bank. Since President Trump
took office, the Netanyahu government
has accelerated the expansion of exist-
ing settlements, created new settle-
ments and outposts, and taken steps to
retroactively legalize settlements built
on private Palestinian land.
Enacting legislation to stifle criti-
cism of settlements on land beyond
Israel’s borders would set a dangerous
precedent that would further erode our
credibility as a neutral arbiter in the
Middle East conflict.
Instead of wasting time on this un-
constitutional bill, the Senate should
instead focus on reopening the govern-
ment by voting on the Federal funding
package the House passed last week.
I fail to see why S. 1 should be a pri-
ority during the government shutdown.
The Senate has a responsibility to up-
hold the Constitution and keep the
government running. This bill does nei-
ther.
f
150TH ANNIVERSARY OF AUBURN,
MAINE
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, today I
wish to commemorate the 150th anni-
versary of the city of Auburn, ME. Au-
burn was built with a spirit of deter-
mination and resiliency that still
guides the community today, and this
is a time to celebrate the generations
of hard-working and caring people who
have made it such a wonderful place to
live, work, and raise families.
Auburn was settled in 1786 and first
incorporated as a town in 1842. The
name was inspired by a popular poem
by Oliver Goldsmith that begins with
this line: ‘‘Sweet Auburn! Loveliest vil-
lage of the plain.’’
With the mighty Androscoggin River
providing power, Auburn soon was
home to many lumber, grain, and tex-
tile mills. When the factory system of
shoe manufacturing was developed
there, the people of Auburn formed a
skilled and dedicated workforce that
built a great Maine industry. The fac-
tories attracted many French-Cana-
dian immigrants, whose culture con-
tinues to enliven the city. The pros-
perity produced by hard work and de-
termination was invested in schools
and churches to create a true commu-
nity.
On February 22, 1869, the fast-grow-
ing community incorporated as the
city of Auburn. Together with Lewis-
ton across the Androscoggin River, an
economic powerhouse was created, and
the ‘‘Cities of the Androscoggin’’ today
form Maine’s second largest municipal
region.
The decline of traditional industries
in the 20th century posed a great chal-
lenge. Auburn’s response is described in
words etched into the walls of Auburn
Hall: a Latin phrase that translates to
‘‘No Steps Backward.’’ Auburn is a
community that was built by the
power of a great river. Now, the power
of community is building a new future
on that river with new economic oppor-
tunities, wonderful food, vibrant arts
and entertainment, and exciting recre-
ation. Auburn cherishes its history as
it continues to move forward.
Auburn is a city of compassionate,
involved people. It is home to the Good
Shepherd Food Bank, the largest hun-
ger relief organization in Maine. The
Auburn Police Activities League,
which provides educational and ath-
letic opportunities to children and
teens after school and during the sum-
mer, is an outstanding example of pub-
lic officials and committed citizens
joining together to change lives today
to create the leaders of tomorrow. The
energy and planning that are going
into Auburn’s 150th anniversary cele-
bration demonstrate the pride resi-
dents have in their city.
The celebration of the city of Au-
burn’s 150th anniversary is not merely
about the passing of time. It is about
human accomplishment. We celebrate
the people who, from the dawn of our
Nation to our time, have pulled to-
gether, cared for one another, and built
a great community. Thanks to those
who came before, Auburn, ME, has a
wonderful history. Thanks to those
there today, it has a bright future.
f
TRIBUTE TO MIKE DAVIS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
would like to pay tribute to Mike
Davis for his incredibly hard work on
my Senate Judiciary Committee staff
as chief counsel for nominations. He is
an Iowan, so his work ethic should be
no surprise, but he went above and be-
yond to ensure that the Senate con-
firmed a historic number of Federal
judges during the 115th Congress, in-
cluding the very difficult confirmation
of Justice Brett Kavanaugh. In Decem-
ber, Mike spoke about his work for me
to the Iowa Lawyers Chapter of the
Federalist Society. I ask unanimous
consent that the text of Mike’s speech
be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
KAVANAUGH AND BEYOND: JUDICIAL CONFIRMA-
TIONS IN THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you to
Sam Langholz and the rest of the Iowa law-
yers’ chapter of the Federalist Society for
inviting me to speak today. The Federalist
Society continues to perform the critical
task of building the farm team of constitu-
tionalist, originalist, and textualist lawyers
across America who can go on to serve in
senior government posts, including in the
federal judiciary. Sam is no doubt one of
those lawyers. I have known Sam for more
than 20 years, from our college internship
days in Washington. Sam is an exceptional
lawyer and leader, and Governor Kim Rey-
nolds and all Iowans are fortunate to have
Sam serving as a senior member of the Gov-
ernor’s team.
I am completing my service as one of Sen-
ator Chuck Grassley’s lawyers on the United
States Senate Committee on the Judiciary,
where Senator Grassley is finishing his 4-
year tenure as the Chairman. In January,
Senator Grassley is taking over the chair-
manship of the Senate Finance Committee,
along with assuming the constitutional of-
fice of President Pro Tempore of the United
States Senate. As President Pro Tem, Sen-
ator Grassley will become third in line in the
presidential succession, behind the Vice
President and the Speaker of the House. It
also means that Senator Grassley must have
a protective detail, which he absolutely does
not want. But as I remind him, the deer
across Iowa can now cross Iowa’s highways a
little more easily without the fear of Chuck
Grassley behind the wheel. At least for the
next two years, anyway.
In all seriousness, I am very proud to work
for Senator Grassley. He is 85 years old, and
his health is excellent. His mind is razor-
sharp. He remembers everything. He still
runs several miles, several times a week. He
still runs circles around his staff, especially
me. In fact, the ‘‘Farmer from Iowa’’ schools
me on the law, when I am supposed to advise
him on legal issues. When he does this, I tell
him that at least my jokes are better than
his. He laughs. Sometimes.
Senator Grassley is one of the most kind,
caring, decent people I have ever met. He
comes home to Iowa virtually every week-
end. He puts Iowans above all. And he will
never become a creature of The Swamp, even
after his 44 years in Congress. Yet Senator
Grassley is one of the most—if not the
most—consequential lawmakers in Wash-
ington. And his chairmanship of the Senate
Judiciary Committee has been one of the
most consequential in our nation’s history.
In fact, earlier today, following Senator
Grassley’s dogged and determined leader-
ship, Senator Grassley joined the President
at the White House for the bill signing of the
First Step Act—a once-in-a-generation
criminal-justice-reform bill that Senator
Grassley wrote and shepherded through Con-
gress. No one expected this legislation to
pass, let alone with overwhelmingly bipar-
tisan support. Yet Senator Grassley is the
one senator—with the experience, credi-
bility, and trust of his colleagues across the
political spectrum—who could have made
this happen.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.010 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S65
January 8, 2019
During his 4-year chairmanship of the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee, Senator Grassley
led the effort to report out of committee 61
bills. The Senate passed 45, and 29 became
law. Regardless of what you think about the
particulars of any one of these laws, very few
in Washington have this record of legislative
success. As always, Grassley works. And
Grassley delivers. Like he has done for his 38
years in the Senate.
I am particularly pleased to join you today
to discuss one of Senator Grassley’s most
significant legislative achievements of his
nearly 60-year career in public office. As
Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee, Senator Grassley led the historic and
record-shattering effort to confirm President
Trump’s lifetime-appointed judicial nomi-
nees.
Over the last two years, Senator Grassley
has led the effort in confirming 85 new fed-
eral judges. This includes Justice Gorsuch,
Justice Kavanaugh, an all-time record 30 cir-
cuit judges, and 53 district judges.
At 85 judges appointed under President
Trump, Senator Grassley has led the effort
to confirm nearly twice as many judges as
the 43 judges that President Obama ap-
pointed in his first two years in office.
Moreover, in 2017, Senator Grassley led the
effort in setting the all-time record for fed-
eral circuit judges confirmed during a presi-
dent’s first year in office, at 12 circuit judges
confirmed.
And earlier this year, Senator Grassley led
the effort in setting the all-time record for
federal circuit judges confirmed during a
president’s first two years in office. The pre-
vious record was 22; Senator Grassley helped
smash this record, by leading the effort to
confirm 30 federal circuit judges in less than
2 years.
And Senator Grassley has readied the field
for 2019, when Senator Graham takes over as
the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee. Senator Grassley and the Senate Ju-
diciary Committee have already held hear-
ings for 50 more federal judicial nominees,
including 6 more federal circuit nominees,
who will have confirmation votes in early
2019. Senator Grassley has put the ball on
the tee for his successor.
While Senator Grassley had made this look
easy, it certainly was not. Senator Grassley
and his team thoroughly vet each of these
nominees, carefully examining their back-
grounds and qualifications, understanding
their judicial philosophy, and carefully as-
sessing their character and fitness to serve.
Senator Grassley held 20 nominations hear-
ings this year alone, generally every other
Wednesday that the Senate was in session.
And Senator Grassley generally held com-
mittee meetings for debates and votes on
nominees almost every Thursday that the
Senate was in session. And Senator Grassley
worked both behind the scenes and in public,
to build support for these judicial nominees.
This took a significant amount of Senator
Grassley’s time. But Senator Grassley under-
stands the critical importance of appointing
judges who find and apply the law as the
public understood the law at the time of its
writing. And Senator Grassley also under-
stands the dangers to liberty—in fact, the
tyranny—when judges think it is their job to
substitute their policy preferences for those
of the American people and their elected rep-
resentatives in Congress.
Fortunately, we are winning. The Presi-
dent is fulfilling his promise to the Amer-
ican people to nominate and appoint judges
who are constitutionalists, originalists, and
textualists.
Senator Grassley had to overcome historic
obstruction by Senate Democrats. The Sen-
ate Democrats forced time-wasting and un-
precedented cloture votes on 48 of the judi-
cial nominees brought to the Senate floor.
How rare are cloture votes for judicial nomi-
nees? Only 2 of President Obama’s nominees
in the first two years faced cloture votes.
Only 3 of President George W. Bush’s nomi-
nees from the first two years faced cloture
votes. Only 1 for Clinton; 0 for H.W. Bush; 0
for Reagan.
And the Senate Democrats’ obstruction
tactics were on full display during the con-
firmation process for Justice Brett
Kavanaugh, who the Senate confirmed on
October 7, 2018. Senator Grassley oversaw the
most comprehensive and transparent con-
firmation process in history, including fully
investigating a number of allegations
against Justice Kavanaugh that turned out
to be completely meritless.
Senator Grassley and his team reviewed
the most documentation in Supreme Court
nomination history—including more than
500,000 pages of Justice Kavanaugh’s records
from his prior government legal service.
Additionally, Senator Grassley and his
team also reviewed more than 300 written
opinions—more than 10,000 pages—that Jus-
tice Kavanaugh wrote or joined in his more
than 12 years of service on the D.C. Circuit,
the most important federal circuit court in
America. We also reviewed more than 17,000
pages of Justice Kavanaugh’s academic
writings, speeches, and other materials pro-
vided to the Senate Judiciary Committee in
response to its most expansive questionnaire
ever submitted to a nominee.
Even after the 4-day hearing, in which Jus-
tice Kavanaugh testified for more than 32
hours, Senate Democrats submitted 1,287
written questions for the record—more than
the total number submitted to all prior Su-
preme Court nominees in our history, com-
bined.
The normal hearing process confirmed for
Senator Grassley that Justice Kavanaugh
was one of the most qualified, if not the
most qualified, Supreme Court nominee in
our history. The Senate Democrats and their
liberal allies landed no punches. Justice
Kavanaugh had gone through 6 prior FBI
full-field background investigations, going
back to 1993. He had served in the highest po-
sitions in the White House and on the second
most important court in the land for more
than a dozen years. It was very clear that
Justice Kavanaugh unquestionably had the
character and fitness to serve.
The Senate Democrats and their liberal al-
lies ensured that what should have been a
‘‘normal’’ confirmation hearing was any-
thing but normal. From the opening mo-
ments, Senate Democrats conducted them-
selves more like petulant children than
United States senators. They interrupted the
Chairman with inappropriate motions and
wild yelling. Indeed, throughout the hearing,
we experienced a senator—who proclaimed to
become Spartacus—willfully leaking con-
fidential records, another senator asking
misleading innuendo-laced questions with no
basis, and other senators doing other out-
rageous things.
Leftwing allies followed the disgraceful
lead of these senators. With Justice
Kavanaugh’s two young daughters in the
room, paid protestors shouted vile things,
disrupting the hearing and dragging the
process on for hours longer than necessary.
This mob-like behavior was apparent
throughout the process, as angry paid
protestors harassed senators, their families,
and their staffs.
When the hearing days were over and it
was clear that Justice Kavanaugh was a good
man with impeccable credentials, Senate
Democrats and their leftwing allies went
back to their playbook from the Justice
Thomas confirmation. But this time, Senate
Democrats and their leftwing allies went
even farther, accusing Justice Kavanaugh of
being a serial gang-rapist who drugged
women at parties in his teenage years and
even through his 20s. While the FBI found no
evidence of this in any of its previous 6 full-
field background investigations conducted
during Justice Kavanaugh’s 25 years of pub-
lic service, Senator Grassley nonetheless
took the allegations seriously.
More than 20 staff members of Senator
Grassley’s Oversight & Investigations Unit
and Nominations Unit immediately began
investigating these claims. They worked
around the clock. Their work was thorough
and comprehensive. Senator Grassley was
satisfied it contained all the answers he
needed, but some senators demanded a sup-
plemental FBI investigation. All senators
were able to review that supplemental re-
port, and most were satisfied that it con-
firmed what we already knew and what Jus-
tice Kavanaugh had been saying from the be-
ginning: Justice Kavanaugh was innocent of
the outrageous allegations made against
him.
After Justice Kavanaugh’s confirmation,
Senator Grassley’s staff produced a report of
more than 400 pages, which catalogues the
tireless work his staff did in investigating
these allegations. This report made clear
that some of the people who made the wild
accusations against Justice Kavanaugh de-
served to be criminally referred to the Jus-
tice Department. And Senator Grassley
made those criminal referrals.
Senator Grassley felt strongly about mak-
ing this report public, because it dem-
onstrates his commitment to process—some-
thing many Senate Democrats wanted none
of. To them, due process is inconvenient
when it stands in the way of achieving their
political ends. Senator Grassley, however,
knows that upholding the constitutional cor-
nerstone of due process, of innocence until
proven guilty, was worth fighting for. And
Senator Grassley helped deliver justice; Jus-
tice Kavanaugh prevailed.
The American people clearly felt the same
way. Indeed, in an election that showed big
gains for Democrats across the country, Re-
publicans actually gained 2 seats in the Sen-
ate. Voters booted out of office Trump-state
Senate Democrats who voted against Justice
Kavanaugh—like Claire McCaskill from Mis-
souri, Joe Donnelly from Indiana, Heidi
Heitkamp from North Dakota, and Bill Nel-
son from Florida. The one Senate Democrat
who actually voted the way his constituents
wanted him—Joe Manchin from West Vir-
ginia—won reelection.
These legislative victories are just more in
the long line of wins that the country has
seen during Senator Grassley’s time chairing
the Senate Judiciary Committee. Again,
Senator Grassley works; Senator Grassley
delivers.
Thank you for your continued support of
Senator Grassley. And thank you for your
continued efforts in helping to find, creden-
tial, and appoint judges who share our judi-
cial philosophy. We can never get tired of
winning. The stakes are too high.
Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays!
I am happy to answer your questions.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
REMEMBERING OTTO DELIKAT
∑ Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
today, with a heavy heart, I wish to
pay tribute to Otto Delikat, a remark-
able role model, survivor, and family
man. Mr. Delikat passed away on De-
cember 23, 2018 at the age of 96.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.020 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S66 January 8, 2019
His life was similar to many of the
Jewish faith during that era, an ordi-
nary man with extraordinary spirit and
indefatigable will to survive. He will be
remembered for his outstanding com-
mitment to his communities and readi-
ness to share his experiences in order
to promote freedom and democracy.
Mr. Delikat was born in Vienna, Aus-
tria, where he grew up with his father,
stepmother, brother, and two sisters.
As a young man, he worked on a farm
in Germany, where his family’s reli-
gion was not known. When World War
II began, he returned to Vienna. With
his father already in a labor camp, a 17-
year-old Mr. Delikat volunteered to go
to the same camp. He and about a
dozen others from the labor camp were
sent to work in a brick factory.
One of the men working with him in
the labor camp escaped, which resulted
in the rest of their group getting
locked up in prison for a year. When
the prison sentence ended, Mr. Delikat
and the other Jewish prisoners were
handed over to the Gestapo and sent to
concentration camps.
Mr. Delikat spent just under a year
in the Flossenburg concentration
camp. Then, in October 1942, he and the
other 16 people left with him were
transported to Auschwitz. He was im-
prisoned there for around a year, work-
ing some of this time as part of a labor
squad tasked with going through the
luggage people took with them when
they arrived on transports. After the
destruction of the Warsaw Ghetto, he
and about 3,000 other prisoners went to
clean up the wreckage. Despite falling
ill from the typhoid epidemic that
killed over half of the inmates during
their first winter in Warsaw, Mr.
Delikat survived.
Eventually, the SS evacuated the
prisoners in 1944, not even half of whom
survived the several days’ long march
when their attempts to run toward
water led to machinegun fire. Those
who made it to the cattle cars, includ-
ing Mr. Delikat, then went to Dachau.
Mr. Delikat was soon relocated to an-
other concentration camp in southern
Germany, where he met a civilian who
helped him pass letters to and from Vi-
enna. Thanks to the kindness of this
civilian, he learned his father was still
alive.
After liberation, Mr. Delikat spent
several months working for the Amer-
ican counterintelligence corps tracking
down members of the SS in hiding in
order to bring them to justice. During
his time in the displaced persons camp,
he met and married his wife, and they
had their first child. The family moved
to America, thanks to support from his
wife’s aunt, where Mr. Delikat quickly
found work and they welcomed their
second child.
When asked about how he survived,
Mr. Delikat emphasized he ‘‘always
looked for tomorrow.’’ He did not think
about the days that would follow, but
instead focused on the hope he would
make it through the current day and
wake up the next. He also said his ex-
periences throughout the Holocaust led
him to become active in Jewish com-
munities, including 50 years at the
Oceanside Jewish Center. He served as
chairman of the temple’s House com-
mittee, was named their man of the
year in 1994, joined the men’s club, and
served on the Holocaust committee.
Mr. Delikat considered it of the ut-
most importance to share his experi-
ences with others. He recognized his
story and the stories of fellow sur-
vivors would be lost if not told. He
liked to talk about what he went
through at every available oppor-
tunity, emphasizing the positive ideals
of our Nation by underlining the im-
portance of living in a free and equal
society.
My wife Cynthia and I extend our
deepest sympathies to Otto’s family
during this difficult time, particularly
to his two children, Janet and Michael,
four grandchildren, and four great-
grandchildren. May their many won-
derful memories of Otto provide them
solace and comfort in the days ahead.∑
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bills and joint resolu-
tion were read the second time, and
placed on the calendar:
S. 28. A bill to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and for other purposes.
H.R. 21. An act making appropriations for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and
for other purposes.
H.J. Res. 1. Joint resolution making fur-
ther continuing appropriations for the De-
partment of Homeland Security for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
S. 47. A bill to provide for the management
of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Army, transmitting , pursuant
to law, a report entitled ‘‘Transfer of Surplus
Firearms to Corporation for the Promotion
of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety’’; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower
and Reserve Affairs), transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report on the mobilizations of se-
lected reserve units, received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on December 20,
2018; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–3. A communication from the Director,
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Annual
Report of the Consumer Financial Protec-
tion Bureau on College Credit Cards; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–4. A communication from the Director,
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Fair Credit Reporting Act
Disclosures’’ (RIN3170–AA94) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on December 31,
2018; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–5. A communication from the Director,
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Truth in Lending Act (Regu-
lation Z) Adjustment to Asset-Size Exemp-
tion Threshold’’ (RIN3170–AA93) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Decem-
ber 31, 2018; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–6. A communication from the Director,
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Home Mortgage Disclosure
(Regulation C) Adjustment to Asset-Size Ex-
emption Threshold’’ (RIN3170–AA92) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Decem-
ber 31, 2018; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–7. A communication from the Director
of the Regulatory Management Division, En-
vironmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; California; EL Do-
rado County Air Quality Management Dis-
trict; Reasonably Available Control Tech-
nology Demonstration’’ (FRL No. 9988–52–Re-
gion 9) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on December 28, 2018; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–8. A communication from the Assistant
Secretary of the Army (Civil Works), trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the Mamaroneck and Sheldrake River Basins
Flood Risk Management project, Village of
Mamaroneck, New York; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–9. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘2019 Standard Mile-
age Rates’’ (Notice 2019–2) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Decem-
ber 20, 2018; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–10. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Parking Expenses
for Qualified Transportation Fringes Under
Section 274(a) (4) and Section 512(a) (7) of the
Internal Revenue Code’’ (Notice 2018–99) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on December 20, 2018; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–11. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Guidance on the
Application of Section 83(i)’’ (Notice 2018–97)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on December 20, 2018; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–12. A communication from the Regula-
tions Coordinator, Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, Department of Health
and Human Services, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Medi-
care Program; Medicare Shared Savings Pro-
gram; Accountable Care Organizations Path-
ways to Success and Extreme and Uncontrol-
lable Circumstances Policies for Perform-
ance Year 2017’’ (RINs 0938–AT45 and 0938–
AT51) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on December 27, 2018; to the
Committee on Finance.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.041 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S67
January 8, 2019
EC–13. A communication from the Regula-
tion Coordinator, Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, Department of Health
and Human Services, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act; Adop-
tion of the Methodology for the HHS-oper-
ated Permanent Risk Adjustment Program
for the 2018 Benefit Year Final Rule’’
((RIN0938–AT66) (CMS–9919-F)) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
December 20, 2018; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–14. A communication from the Acting
Chief Financial Officer, National Labor Rela-
tions Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, a
report entitled ‘‘Performance and Account-
ability Report for Fiscal Year 2018’’; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–15. A communication from the Execu-
tive Director, U.S. Election Assistance Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Commission’s Semiannual Report of the In-
spector General for the period from April 1,
2018 through September 30, 2018; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–16. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Congressional and Inter-
governmental Relations, Department of
Housing and Urban Development, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the Government Na-
tional Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae)
management report for the fiscal year 2018;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–17. A communication from the Vice
President for Congressional and Public Af-
fairs, Millennium Challenge Corporation,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Corpora-
tion’s Agency Financial Report for fiscal
year 2018; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–18. A communication from the Acting
Director, Office of Personnel Management,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘General Schedule Locality
Pay Areas’’ (RIN3206–AN64) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Jan-
uary 3, 2019; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–19. A communication from the Chief of
the Border Security Regulations Branch,
Customs and Border Protection, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Civil Monetary Penalty Adjustments for In-
flation’’ (RIN1651–AB32) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Decem-
ber 20, 2018; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–20. A communication from the Acting
Director, Office of Personnel Management,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Veterans’ Preferences’’
(RIN3206–AN47) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 3, 2019;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
MORAN, and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 30. A bill to require the Secretary of De-
fense to develop and implement a plan to
provide chiropractic health care services for
certain covered beneficiaries as part of the
TRICARE program; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and
Mr. DURBIN):
S. 31. A bill to include Livingston County,
the city of Jonesboro in Union County, and
the city of Freeport in Stephenson County,
Illinois, to the Lincoln National Heritage
Area, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. MCCONNELL:
S. 32. A bill to establish the Mill Springs
Battlefield National Monument in the State
of Kentucky as a unit of the National Park
System, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
BENNET):
S. 33. A bill to update the map of, and mod-
ify the maximum acreage available for inclu-
sion in, the Florissant Fossil Beds National
Monument; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr.
COONS):
S. 34. A bill to require a report on the con-
tinuing participation of Cambodia in the
Generalized System of Preferences; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
BENNET):
S. 35. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
the Interior to conduct a special resource
study of the site known as ‘‘Amache’’ in the
State of Colorado; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
BENNET):
S. 36. A bill to authorize, direct, expedite,
and facilitate a land exchange in El Paso and
Teller Counties, Colorado, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
BENNET):
S. 37. A bill to ensure adequate use and ac-
cess to the existing Bolts Ditch headgate and
ditch segment within the Holy Cross Wilder-
ness in Eagle County, Colorado, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
BENNET):
S. 38. A bill to maintain annual base fund-
ing for the Upper Colorado and San Juan fish
recovery programs through fiscal year 2023,
to require a report on the implementation of
those programs, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Mr.
MANCHIN):
S. 39. A bill to provide that Members of
Congress may not receive pay after October
1 of any fiscal year in which Congress has
not approved a concurrent resolution on the
budget and passed the regular appropriations
bills; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself and
Mr. SCHATZ):
S. 40. A bill to require the Secretary of the
Interior to submit to Congress a report on
the efforts of the Bureau of Reclamation to
manage its infrastructure assets; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
CRUZ):
S. 41. A bill to survey the gradient bound-
ary along the Red River in the States of
Oklahoma and Texas, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. BENNET, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BROWN,
Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. CASEY, Mr. COONS, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN,
Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. KAINE,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. PETERS, Mr. REED,
Ms. ROSEN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. SMITH, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. WARNER, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 42. A bill to require a background check
for every firearm sale; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
CRUZ):
S. 43. A bill to require the Secretary of Ag-
riculture to transfer certain National Forest
System land in the States of Texas; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
By Mr. DAINES:
S. 44. A bill to reduce a portion of the an-
nual pay of Members of Congress for the fail-
ure to adopt a concurrent resolution on the
budget which does not provide for a balanced
budget, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr.
MURPHY):
S. 45. A bill to amend the Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act to designate certain river seg-
ments within the Wood-Pawcatuck water-
shed as components of the National Wild and
Scenic Rivers System, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 46. A bill to repeal the Klamath Tribe
Judgment Fund Act; to the Committee on
Indian Affairs.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Ms. CANTWELL):
S. 47. A bill to provide for the management
of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes; read the first
time.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 48. A bill to authorize, direct, expedite,
and facilitate a land exchange in Yavapai
County, Arizona, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. ROM-
NEY):
S. 49. A bill to designate the outstation of
the Department of Veterans Affairs in North
Ogden, Utah, as the Major Brent Taylor Vet
Center Outstation; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. WYDEN, and Ms. CANT-
WELL):
S. 50. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
the Interior to assess sanitation and safety
conditions at Bureau of Indian Affairs facili-
ties that were constructed to provide af-
fected Columbia River Treaty tribes access
to traditional fishing grounds and expend
funds on construction of facilities and struc-
tures to improve those conditions, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Indian
Affairs.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
DAINES):
S. 51. A bill to extend the Federal recogni-
tion to the Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa In-
dians of Montana, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Indian Affairs.
By Mr. RISCH (for himself, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 52. A bill to halt the wholesale slaughter
of the Syrian people, encourage a negotiated
political settlement, and hold Syrian human
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.018 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S68 January 8, 2019
rights abusers accountable for their crimes;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. INHOFE (for himself, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. CRUZ, and
Mr. CASSIDY):
S. 53. A bill to appropriate $25,000,000,000
for the construction of a border wall between
the United States and Mexico, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 54. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
the Interior to convey certain land to La Paz
County, Arizona, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 55. A bill to provide for the
unencumbering of title to non-Federal land
owned by the city of Tucson, Arizona, for
purposes of economic development by con-
veyance of the Federal reversionary interest
to the City; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mr. TILLIS:
S. 56. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
the Interior to annually designate at least
one city in the United States as an ‘‘Amer-
ican World War II Heritage City’’, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr.
GARDNER):
S. 57. A bill to amend the National Trails
System Act to provide for the study of the
Pike National Historic Trail; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr.
GARDNER):
S. 58. A bill to designate certain mountain
peaks in the State of Colorado as ‘‘Fowler
Peak’’ and ‘‘Boskoff Peak’’; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself and Mr.
GARDNER):
S. 59. A bill to adjust the boundary of the
Arapaho National Forest, Colorado, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
CRUZ):
S. Res. 10. A resolution honoring the life of
Richard Arvin Overton; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr.
LANKFORD):
S. Res. 11. A resolution honoring the 150th
anniversary of Fort Sill in Lawton, Okla-
homa; to the Committee on Armed Services.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 1
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER), the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CRUZ) and the Senator from
Mississippi (Mr. WICKER) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1, a bill to make im-
provements to certain defense and se-
curity assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to
Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes.
S. 9
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO), the Senator from
Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY), the Senator
from Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE), the Sen-
ator from Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY) and
the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. BOOZ-
MAN) were added as cosponsors of S. 9,
a bill to amend the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act to clarify the Food
and Drug Administration’s jurisdiction
over certain tobacco products, and to
protect jobs and small businesses in-
volved in the sale, manufacturing and
distribution of traditional and pre-
mium cigars.
S. 20
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the Senator
from Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY) were added
as cosponsors of S. 20, a bill to amend
the Ethics in Government Act of 1978
to require the disclosure of certain tax
returns by Presidents and certain can-
didates for the office of the President,
and for other purposes.
S. 21
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
names of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN), the Senator from Hawaii
(Mr. SCHATZ), the Senator from Wis-
consin (Mr. JOHNSON), the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO), the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI), the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ), the
Senator from Washington (Mrs. MUR-
RAY) and the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 21, a bill making con-
tinuing appropriations for Coast Guard
pay in the event an appropriations act
expires prior to the enactment of a new
appropriations act.
S. 24
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI), the Senator from Michi-
gan (Ms. STABENOW), the Senator from
New Mexico (Mr. UDALL), the Senator
from Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ), the Senator
from Washington (Mrs. MURRAY), the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. MENEN-
DEZ), the Senator from Pennsylvania
(Mr. CASEY), the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. BROWN) and the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) were added as
cosponsors of S. 24, a bill to provide for
the compensation of Federal and other
government employees affected by
lapses in appropriations.
S. 26
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. UDALL) and the Senator
from Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY) were added
as cosponsors of S. 26, a bill to amend
the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to
allow all eligible voters to vote by mail
in Federal elections, to amend the Na-
tional Voter Registration Act of 1993 to
provide for automatic voter registra-
tion.
S.J. RES. 1
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS), the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. PERDUE), the Senator
from Indiana (Mr. BRAUN) and the Sen-
ator from Nebraska (Mr. SASSE) were
added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 1, a
joint resolution proposing an amend-
ment to the Constitution of the United
States relative to limiting the number
of terms that a Member of Congress
may serve.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. MCCONNELL:
S. 32. A bill to establish the Mill
Springs Battlefield National Monu-
ment in the State of Kentucky as a
unit of the National Park System, and
for other purposes; to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the text of
the bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 32
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Mill Springs
Battlefield National Monument Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Mill Springs Battlefield National
Monument, Nancy, Kentucky’’, numbered
297/145513, and dated June 2018.
(2) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Mill Springs Battlefield National
Monument established by section 3(a)(1).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting
through the Director of the National Park
Service.
SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF MILL SPRINGS BAT-
TLEFIELD NATIONAL MONUMENT.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
there is established as a unit of the National
Park System, the Mill Springs Battlefield
National Monument in the State of Ken-
tucky, to preserve, protect, and interpret for
the benefit of present and future genera-
tions—
(A) the nationally significant historic re-
sources of the Mill Springs Battlefield; and
(B) the role of the Mill Springs Battlefield
in the Civil War.
(2) DETERMINATION BY THE SECRETARY.—The
Monument shall not be established until the
date on which the Secretary determines that
a sufficient quantity of land or interests in
land has been acquired to constitute a man-
ageable park unit.
(3) NOTICE.—Not later than 30 days after
the date on which the Secretary makes a de-
termination under paragraph (2), the Sec-
retary shall publish in the Federal Register
notice of the establishment of the Monu-
ment.
(4) BOUNDARY.—The boundary of the Monu-
ment shall be as generally depicted on the
Map.
(5) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(6) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may only acquire land or an interest in land
located within the boundary of the Monu-
ment by—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.028 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S69
January 8, 2019
(A) donation;
(B) purchase from a willing seller with do-
nated or appropriated funds; or
(C) exchange.
(b) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Monument in accordance with—
(A) this Act; and
(B) the laws generally applicable to units
of the National Park System, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are first made
available to prepare a general management
plan for the Monument, the Secretary shall
prepare the general management plan in ac-
cordance with section 100502 of title 54,
United States Code.
(B) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—On comple-
tion of the general management plan, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate the gen-
eral management plan.
(c) PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.—Noth-
ing in this Act affects the land use rights of
private property owners within or adjacent
to the Monument.
(d) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this Act, the
establishment of the Monument, or the man-
agement of the Monument creates a buffer
zone outside the Monument.
(2) ACTIVITY OR USE OUTSIDE MONUMENT.—
The fact that an activity or use can be seen,
heard, or detected from within the Monu-
ment shall not preclude the conduct of the
activity or use outside the Monument.
By Mr. DAINES:
S. 44. A bill to reduce a portion of the
annual pay of Members of Congress for
the failure to adopt a concurrent reso-
lution on the budget which does not
provide for a balanced budget, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs.
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 44
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Balanced Budget Accountability Act’’.
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) The Federal debt exceeds
$21,000,000,000,000, continues to grow rapidly,
and is larger than the size of the United
States economy.
(2) The Federal budget has shown an an-
nual deficit in 49 of the last 54 years.
(3) Deficits and the Federal debt threaten
to shatter confidence in the Nation’s econ-
omy, suppress job creation and economic
growth, and leave future generations of
Americans with a lower standard of living
and fewer opportunities.
(4) It is the duty of Members of Congress to
develop and implement policies, including
balancing the Federal budget, that encour-
age robust job creation and economic growth
in the United States.
(5) Members of Congress should be held ac-
countable for failing to pass annual budgets
that result in a balanced budget.
SEC. 2. EFFECT OF FAILURE TO ADOPT RESOLU-
TION PROVIDING FOR BALANCED
BUDGETS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘balanced budget’’ means a
concurrent resolution on the budget which
provides that for fiscal year 2029, and each
fiscal year thereafter to which the concur-
rent resolution on the budget applies—
(A) total outlays do not exceed total re-
ceipts; and
(B) total outlays are not more than 18 per-
cent of the projected gross domestic product
of the United States (as determined by the
Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Depart-
ment of Commerce) for such fiscal year;
(2) the term ‘‘Director’’ means the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget; and
(3) the term ‘‘Member’’ includes a Delegate
or Resident Commissioner to Congress.
(b) DETERMINATION BY THE OFFICE OF MAN-
AGEMENT AND BUDGET.—Upon adoption by a
House of Congress of a concurrent resolution
on the budget for a fiscal year, the Director
shall—
(1) determine whether the concurrent reso-
lution on the budget is a balanced budget;
and
(2) submit to the Speaker of the House of
Representatives or the President pro tem-
pore of the Senate (as the case may be) a cer-
tification as to whether or not that House of
Congress has adopted a balanced budget.
(c) RULE FOR FISCAL YEARS 2020 AND 2021.—
(1) FISCAL YEAR 2020.—
(A) HOLDING SALARIES IN ESCROW.—If the
Director does not certify that a House of
Congress has adopted a balanced budget with
respect to fiscal year 2020 before April 16,
2019, during the period described in subpara-
graph (B) the payroll administrator of that
House of Congress shall deposit in an escrow
account all payments otherwise required to
be made during such period for the com-
pensation of Members of Congress who serve
in that House of Congress, and shall release
such payments to such Members only upon
the expiration of such period.
(B) PERIOD DESCRIBED.—With respect to a
House of Congress, the period described in
this subparagraph is the period that begins
on April 16, 2019, and ends on the earlier of—
(i) the date on which the Director certifies
that the House of Congress has adopted a
balanced budget with respect to fiscal year
2020; or
(ii) the last day of the One Hundred Six-
teenth Congress.
(2) FISCAL YEAR 2021.—
(A) HOLDING SALARIES IN ESCROW.—If the
Director does not certify that a House of
Congress has adopted a balanced budget with
respect to fiscal year 2021 before April 16,
2020, during the period described in subpara-
graph (B) the payroll administrator of that
House of Congress shall deposit in an escrow
account all payments otherwise required to
be made during such period for the com-
pensation of Members of Congress who serve
in that House of Congress, and shall release
such payments to such Members only upon
the expiration of such period.
(B) PERIOD DESCRIBED.—With respect to a
House of Congress, the period described in
this subparagraph is the period that begins
on April 16, 2020, and ends on the earlier of—
(i) the date on which the Director certifies
that the House of Congress has adopted a
balanced budget with respect to fiscal year
2021; or
(ii) the last day of the One Hundred Six-
teenth Congress.
(3) WITHHOLDING AND REMITTANCE OF
AMOUNTS FROM PAYMENTS HELD IN ESCROW.—
The payroll administrator shall provide for
the same withholding and remittance with
respect to a payment deposited in an escrow
account under paragraph (1) or (2) that would
apply to the payment if the payment were
not subject to paragraph (1) or (2).
(4) RELEASE OF AMOUNTS AT END OF THE
CONGRESS.—In order to ensure that this sub-
section is carried out in a manner that shall
not vary the compensation of Senators or
Representatives in violation of the twenty-
seventh amendment to the Constitution of
the United States, the payroll administrator
of a House of Congress shall release for pay-
ments to Members of that House of Congress
any amounts remaining in any escrow ac-
count under this section on the last day of
the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress.
(5) ROLE OF SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.—
The Secretary of the Treasury shall provide
the payroll administrators of the Houses of
Congress with such assistance as may be nec-
essary to enable the payroll administrators
to carry out this subsection.
(6) PAYROLL ADMINISTRATOR DEFINED.—In
this subsection, the ‘‘payroll administrator’’
of a House of Congress means—
(A) in the case of the House of Representa-
tives, the Chief Administrative Officer of the
House of Representatives, or an employee of
the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer
who is designated by the Chief Administra-
tive Officer to carry out this section; and
(B) in the case of the Senate, the Secretary
of the Senate, or an employee of the Office of
the Secretary of the Senate who is des-
ignated by the Secretary to carry out this
section.
(d) RULE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2022 AND SUBSE-
QUENT FISCAL YEARS.—If the Director does
not certify that a House of Congress has
adopted a balanced budget with respect to
fiscal year 2022, or any fiscal year thereafter,
before April 16 of the fiscal year before such
fiscal year, during pay periods which occur
in the same calendar year after that date
each Member of that House shall be paid at
an annual rate of pay equal to $1.
SEC. 3. SUPERMAJORITY REQUIREMENT FOR IN-
CREASING REVENUE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In the Senate and the
House of Representatives, a bill, joint resolu-
tion, amendment, conference report, or
amendment between the Houses that in-
creases revenue shall only be agreed to upon
an affirmative vote of three-fifths of the
Members of that House of Congress duly cho-
sen and sworn.
(b) RULES OF SENATE AND THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.—Subsection (a) is enacted
by Congress—
(1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power
of the Senate and House of Representatives,
respectively, and as such it is deemed a part
of the rules of each House, respectively, but
applicable only with respect to the procedure
to be followed in that House in the case of a
bill, joint resolution, amendment, conference
report, or amendment between the Houses
that increases revenue, and it supersedes
other rules only to the extent that it is in-
consistent with such rules; and
(2) with full recognition of the constitu-
tional right of either House to change the
rules (so far as relating to the procedure of
that House) at any time, in the same man-
ner, and to the same extent as in the case of
any other rule of that House.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
and Mr. MURPHY):
S. 45. A bill to amend the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act to designate certain
river segments within the Wood-
Pawcatuck watershed as components of
the National Wild and Scenic Rivers
System, and for other purposes; to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.031 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S70 January 8, 2019
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I am
once again introducing, along with my
colleagues Senator WHITEHOUSE, Sen-
ator BLUMENTHAL, and Senator MUR-
PHY, legislation to designate river seg-
ments within the Wood-Pawcatuck wa-
tershed as part of the National Wild
and Scenic Rivers System.
Following more than three years of
intense study, this legislation would
formally recognize the recreational,
natural, and historical qualities of por-
tions of the Beaver, Chipuxet, Green
Fall-Ashaway, Pawcatuck, Queen-
Usquepaugh, Shunock, and Wood Riv-
ers that flow through Rhode Island and
Connecticut while providing access to
Federal resources and promoting
strong partnerships for their restora-
tion and protection.
The Wood-Pawcatuck watershed is a
National treasure that not only holds
natural and scenic value, but also is an
important economic driver for the
area. Indeed, the 12 local river commu-
nities experience direct economic bene-
fits from their proximity to these riv-
ers through increased recreation and
tourism. The watershed provides many
opportunities for visitors to explore
history and experience nature, includ-
ing viewing early industrial mill ruins,
trout fishing, bird watching, and
kayaking.
I have long been a supporter of pro-
tecting and restoring these special riv-
ers, which is why I sponsored the
Wood-Pawcatuck Watershed Protec-
tion Act in 2013. The process that was
initiated by that law has been a crit-
ical tool for bringing together stake-
holders from Rhode Island and Con-
necticut including representatives
from State agencies, local govern-
ments, and conservation groups in
order to develop a collaborative path
forward. The resulting Stewardship
Plan, which has been formally adopted
by the study committee and is sup-
ported by all twelve local river commu-
nities, builds upon currently existing
efforts to preserve and manage the
river ecosystems while also considering
what steps will need to be taken collec-
tively in the future in order to protect
them.
I would like to commend Representa-
tives LANGEVIN, CICILLINE, and COURT-
NEY for again introducing companion
legislation. In October 2018 we com-
memorated the 50th anniversary of the
landmark Wild and Scenic Rivers Act,
and I am proud that after all these
years we are continuing our work to
protect such extraordinary places. I
look forward to working with all of my
colleagues to pass this legislation so
that we can preserve the rivers of the
Wood-Pawcatuck watershed for the en-
joyment of current and future genera-
tions.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 10—HON-
ORING THE LIFE OF RICHARD
ARVIN OVERTON
Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
CRUZ) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 10
Whereas, on May 11, 1906, Richard Arvin
Overton was born to Gentry Overton, Sr.,
and Elizabeth ‘‘Lizzie’’ Overton in Bastrop
County, Texas;
Whereas, in 1940, Richard Arvin Overton
enlisted in the Army and began his military
service at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio,
Texas;
Whereas, from 1942 to 1945, Richard Arvin
Overton bravely served in the Pacific the-
ater, including in Guam, Palau, and Iwo
Jima, with the 1887th Engineer Aviation Bat-
talion, an all-African American unit, until
the conclusion of World War II;
Whereas Richard Arvin Overton attained
the rank of corporal in the Army;
Whereas Richard Arvin Overton earned the
Combat Infantry Badge, the Meritorious
Unit Commendation, the Army Good Con-
duct Medal, the American Defense Service
Medal, the American Campaign Medal, the
Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal, the World
War II Victory Medal, and the Expert Rifle
Marksmanship Badge;
Whereas Richard Arvin Overton returned
to Austin, Texas, after the end of World War
II and resided there until his death;
Whereas, on November 11, 2013, Richard
Arvin Overton was honored by former Presi-
dent Barack Obama at Arlington National
Cemetery for his courage and commitment
to service in combat zones such as Pearl Har-
bor, the Marshall Islands, Guam, Palau, and
Iwo Jima;
Whereas, on January 3, 2015, Richard Arvin
Overton represented The Greatest Genera-
tion at the 2015 United States Army All-
American Bowl in San Antonio, Texas;
Whereas, on May 3, 2016, Richard Arvin
Overton became the oldest surviving veteran
of the Armed Forces after the death of Frank
Levingston, a fellow World War II veteran;
Whereas, on May 11, 2016, Richard Arvin
Overton attained 110 years of age and became
a supercentenarian;
Whereas, in Austin, Texas, May 11th of
each year is designated as ‘‘Richard Overton
Day’’ in honor of Richard Arvin Overton’s
birthday;
Whereas, in 2017, the city of Austin, Texas,
officially renamed the street on which Rich-
ard Arvin Overton resided to ‘‘Richard
Overton Avenue’’;
Whereas Richard Arvin Overton died on
December 27, 2018;
Whereas Richard Arvin Overton will be
laid to rest with full military honors at the
Texas State Cemetery in Austin, Texas; and
Whereas Richard Arvin Overton is a United
States hero who exemplified strength, sac-
rifice, and service to the country: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) extends its heartfelt sympathy to the
family of Richard Arvin Overton on the occa-
sion of his death;
(2) honors the life of Richard Arvin
Overton and his service to the United States;
(3) honors and, on behalf of the United
States, expresses deep appreciation for the
outstanding and important service of Rich-
ard Arvin Overton to the United States; and
(4) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate communicate this resolution
to the House of Representatives and trans-
mit an enrolled copy of this resolution to the
family of Richard Arvin Overton.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 11—HON-
ORING THE 150TH ANNIVERSARY
OF FORT SILL IN LAWTON,
OKLAHOMA
Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr.
LANKFORD) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Armed Services:
S. RES. 11
Whereas January 8, 2019, marks the 150th
anniversary of Fort Sill, a military installa-
tion operating in the Lawton-Fort Sill re-
gion of Oklahoma;
Whereas the site of Fort Sill was staked
out on January 8, 1869, by Major General
Philip H. Sheridan, and the garrison was
first called ‘‘Camp Wichita’’;
Whereas Fort Sill is named after Brigadier
General Joshua W. Sill, who was killed in
the American Civil War and was a friend to
Major General Philip H. Sheridan;
Whereas the first post commander at Fort
Sill was Brevet Major General Benjamin
Grierson;
Whereas, in 1877, Lieutenant Henry O. Flip-
per, the first African American to graduate
from West Point, was assigned to the 10th
Cavalry Regiment at Fort Sill;
Whereas, in 1898, the Fort Sill garrison was
down to 27 officers and soldiers as the cav-
alry left for battles in Cuba during the Span-
ish-American War, and Lieutenant Allyn
Capron, Jr., who had joined the ‘‘Rough Rid-
ers’’, was the first officer killed in Cuba;
Whereas the last Indian land in Oklahoma
opened for settlement in 1901, and 29,000
homesteaders registered at Fort Sill during
July of that year for the land lottery;
Whereas Fort Sill played a major role in
expanding the nearby city of Lawton, which
was named after Major General Henry W.
Lawton, a Fort Sill quartermaster who was
killed in the Philippines in 1899 and was a
Medal of Honor recipient;
Whereas, on August 6, 1901, the town of
Lawton was established and quickly grew to
become the third largest city in Oklahoma,
later becoming part of the greater Lawton-
Fort Sill community;
Whereas, with the disappearance of the
frontier, the mission of Fort Sill gradually
changed from cavalry to field artillery, with
the first artillery battery arriving at Fort
Sill in 1902, and the last cavalry regiment de-
parting in May 1907;
Whereas, the School of Fire for Field Artil-
lery was founded at Fort Sill in 1911 and con-
tinues to operate as the United States Army
Field Artillery School;
Whereas, throughout its history, Fort Sill
has served as home to—
(1) the Infantry School of Musketry, which
was later renamed the Infantry School and
moved to Camp Benning, Georgia;
(2) the Gas Defense School;
(3) the School for Aerial Observers;
(4) the Artillery Officers Candidate School
(Robinson Barracks);
(5) the Air Service Flying School;
(6) the Army Aviation School;
(7) the School of Fire (now known as the
Field Artillery School); and
(8) the Air Defense Artillery School;
Whereas, in 1915, the first air unit in the
history of the United States Armed Forces,
the 1st Aero Squadron, was stationed at Fort
Sill for experiments in the aerial observation
of artillery fire and, in 1916, was sent into
combat with General Jack Pershing on an
expedition into Mexico;
Whereas, in 1917, the Henry Post Army Air-
field was constructed for aerial artillery ob-
servation and spotting;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.032 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S71
January 8, 2019
Whereas, with the start of World War I in
1918, the post expanded quickly, and the
Army established Camp Doniphan on the
northwest edge of Fort Sill in order to as-
semble, house, and train entire divisions be-
fore sending the divisions to Europe;
Whereas, during World War I, Fort Sill
found itself with a unique new training mis-
sion, as the War Department was unprepared
to train officers and soldiers for the threat of
weapons of mass destruction posed by the
wide-scale use of chemical weapons in Eu-
rope, and soldiers had to be equipped and
trained for the new threat;
Whereas the 35th Division was constituted
in 1917 as 1 of the 17 National Guard divisions
authorized for service in World War I;
Whereas the 35th Division—
(1) was organized from the National Guards
of Kansas and Missouri;
(2) included 3 machinegun battalions, 3
field artillery regiments, 4 infantry regi-
ments, 1 engineer regiment, and 1 signal bat-
talion, with a total strength of 26,373 sol-
diers;
(3) trained at Camp Doniphan until April
1918, when the 35th Division embarked to Eu-
rope;
Whereas, on September 15, 1918, the 35th
Division moved to the Meuse-Argonne front
and, during the night of September 20, 1918,
moved into forward positions in preparation
for the Meuse-Argonne offensive;
Whereas, on September 26, 1918, the 35th
Division launched an attack and, for the
next 4 days, kept up the attack against
heavy German resistance;
Whereas the 35th Division returned to the
United States in April 1919 and was demobi-
lized on May 30, 1919;
Whereas President Harry S. Truman was a
captain and battery commander of 1 of the
field artillery units of the 35th Division and
ran a canteen at Camp Doniphan for a period
of time;
Whereas, after World War I, the Field Ar-
tillery School commandants began a long-
range program to improve field artillery mo-
bility, gunnery, and equipment;
Whereas Major Carlos Brewer, the Director
of the Gunnery Department in the late 1920s
and early 1930s, introduced new fire-direction
techniques so fire support could be more re-
sponsive;
Whereas Major Orlando Ward, the next Di-
rector of the Gunnery Department after
Major Carlos Brewer, developed the fire di-
rection center to centralize command and
control and to facilitate massing fire;
Whereas Major Brewer, Major Ward, and
Lieutenant Colonel H.L.C. Jones encouraged
replacing horses with motor vehicles for
moving field artillery guns;
Whereas the 45th Infantry Division, made
up of National Guardsmen from Oklahoma,
Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas—
(1) was ordered into Federal service for 1
year in September 1940 to engage in a train-
ing program that began at Fort Sill; and
(2) participated in the Louisiana Maneu-
vers;
Whereas the Field Artillery Officer Can-
didate School at Fort Sill—
(1) was opened by the Army in 1941 to help
meet the need for leaders in a rapidly ex-
panding Army;
(2) was closed during the peace period be-
tween World War II and the Korean War;
(3) was subsequently reopened and re-
mained open until 1973; and
(4) trained 57,500 field artillery officers for
World War II, the Korean War, and the Viet-
nam War;
Whereas 2 Field Artillery Officer Candidate
School graduates, First Lieutenant James E.
Robinson (Class of 62-43) and Second Lieuten-
ant Harold B. Durham, Jr. (Class of 1-67),
were awarded the Medal of Honor;
Whereas other Field Artillery Officer Can-
didate School graduates have made an im-
pact on history, including—
(1) H. Malcolm Baldrige (Class of 91-44), a
former Secretary of Commerce;
(2) Martin R. Hoffman (Class of 71-55), a
former Secretary of the Army;
(3) retired General Jack N. Merritt (Class
of 35-53), former senior military representa-
tive of the United States to the North Atlan-
tic Treaty Organization; and
(4) John M. Shalikashvili (Class of 4-59),
former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff;
Whereas the 818th ‘‘Tank Destroyer Bat-
talion’’—
(1) was formed at Fort Sill on December 15,
1941;
(2) deployed to Northern Ireland in 1943,
equipped with towed guns;
(3) landed in France 36 days after D-Day;
and
(4) after advancing through France with
the 5th Infantry Division, fought at Metz and
along the Saar River, pushing into Germany
in early December 1944;
Whereas, the 5th Infantry Division—
(1) moved north on December 18, 1944, to
fight in the Battle of the Bulge;
(2) was detached on December 20, 1944, and
reassigned to the 26th Infantry Division,
which saw action in the Ardennes; and
(3) from late January to March 1945, held
defensive positions before driving west with
the 26th Infantry Division through Germany,
finishing the war just inside the Czech bor-
der at Kienberg;
Whereas, to best use new long-range guns
and improve response times, the Field Artil-
lery School championed the use of organic
air observation to control field artillery
fires, with the War Department approving
organic field artillery air observation in 1942
and the field artillery air observers adjusting
massed fire and performing liaison, recon-
naissance, and other missions during World
War II;
Whereas, in 1942, Fort Sill stood down the
last horse-drawn field artillery unit, ending
73 years of the partnership between soldiers
and horses that helped fuel the military
strength of Fort Sill;
Whereas horses did not reappear at Fort
Sill until 1963, when the commanding general
authorized a special ‘‘Half Section of Field
Artillery’’, which names the horses after
Fort Sill commanders;
Whereas, on July 10, 1943, the 45th Infantry
Division, which trained at Fort Sill and was
known as the ‘‘Thunderbirds’’, participated
in its first of 4 amphibious landings during
World War II, landing in Sicily;
Whereas the Thunderbirds served 511 days
in combat, fighting across Sicily, Italy,
France, and Germany;
Whereas celebrities made appearances or
received Army training at Fort Sill during
World War II, with humorist Will Rogers and
motion-picture star Gene Autry making nu-
merous trips to entertain the troops there;
Whereas Louis L’Amor, before becoming a
writer of western novels, was a boxing in-
structor at the famous Artillery Bowl at
Fort Sill in 1943;
Whereas, following World War II, Fort Sill
adapted to the atomic age and the Cold War,
and the War Department consolidated all ar-
tillery training and development under the
United States Army Artillery Center at Fort
Sill in 1946;
Whereas the 45th Infantry Division ‘‘Thun-
derbirds’’—
(1) deployed to South Korea in 1952;
(2) was 1 of only 2 National Guard divisions
to see combat in the Korean War;
(3) was deployed with I Corps and partici-
pated in such battles as Old Baldy and Pork
Chop Hill; and
(4) participated in 4 campaigns during 429
days in battle;
Whereas, during the Cold War, the 4th Bat-
talion 31st Infantry ‘‘Polar Bears’’ was acti-
vated at Fort Sill to help train artillerymen
in joint-combat tactics;
Whereas, although the Polar Bears unit
was called ‘‘infantry’’, it was a unique com-
bined-arms team that included an armored
tank company;
Whereas the high-profile Polar Bears unit
participated in combined-arms live-fire exer-
cises (the ‘‘CALFEX program’’), which
brought together infantry, armor, field artil-
lery, and Air Force assets;
Whereas the CALFEX program was
brought to an end by the drive for efficient
use of money, with the end of the Polar
Bears unit signaling the end of the high-pro-
file CALFEX program;
Whereas, as of 2019, the Polar Bears unit
has been reactivated with the 10th Mountain
Division at Fort Drum, New York;
Whereas, in 1963, the Field Artillery School
tested aerial rocket artillery, which
equipped helicopters with rockets;
Whereas, as demonstrated during the Viet-
nam War, aerial rocket artillery was effec-
tive;
Whereas the Field Artillery School cooper-
ated in the development of the Field Artil-
lery Digital Automated Computer, which
was introduced in 1966 to compute fire direc-
tion data and made the Field Artillery a
leader in computer developments for the
Army;
Whereas, in 1963, the 1st Aerial Artillery
Group (Provisional) was organized at Fort
Sill to test equipping CH-34 helicopters with
rocket pods attached to each side, con-
verting the transport aircraft, an easy target
in most combat situations, into flying weap-
ons capable of direct or indirect fires;
Whereas modern helicopter gunships are
descendants of the 1963 test program at Fort
Sill;
Whereas, on August 8, 1990, Fort Sill be-
came actively involved in supporting Oper-
ation Desert Shield, with initial activities
centered around the preparation of III Corps
Artillery units for deployment;
Whereas, during Operation Desert Shield,
Fort Sill—
(1) deployed 19 Active and 20 Reserve units;
(2) processed 9,246 Active and 1,397 Reserve
personnel;
(3) trained, equipped, and validated reserve
component units and personnel;
(4) supported active component units and
personnel;
(5) prepared and shipped equipment to
ports for shipment to the battlefield; and
(6) with help from Army Reserve units, ex-
panded the training base for initial military
training;
Whereas, during Operation Desert Shield,
Fort Sill agencies supported Active and Re-
serve component units and personnel with
all classes of supply, medical, dental, main-
tenance, personnel, finance, training, and
transportation services prior to deployment;
Whereas Fort Sill immediately imple-
mented its force-protection plan the morn-
ing of September 11, 2001—
(1) by opening its installation operations
center to coordinate security measures
around the clock; and
(2) by activating its quick-reaction force—
(A) to guard the outer perimeter roads;
(B) to serve as roving security patrols; and
(C) to perform other security duties;
Whereas, in response to the attacks of Sep-
tember 11, 2001, Fort Sill furnished security
personnel for high-risk targets and hardened
major entries with concrete and water-filled
blocks, while at the same time continuing
its primary mission of training officers, new
soldiers, and noncommissioned officers;
Whereas Fort Sill supported Operation En-
during Freedom in Afghanistan—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.022 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S72 January 8, 2019
(1) by serving as a mobilization station
for—
A) the 5045th Garrison Support Unit (Mili-
tary Police), which augmented installation
security efforts;
(B) the 1st Battalion, 379th Field Artillery,
which augmented the training base; and
(C) the 2nd Battalion, 379th Field Artillery,
which augmented the training base; and
(2) by mobilizing the 3rd Battalion, 141st
Infantry from the Texas Army National
Guard to staff the entry gates of the instal-
lation;
Whereas, although the 5045th Garrison
Support Unit, the 1st Battalion, 379th Field
Artillery, the 2nd Battalion, 379th Field Ar-
tillery, and the 3rd Battalion, 141st Infantry
were eventually deactivated, Fort Sill mobi-
lized and deployed numerous additional units
and improved force protection during Oper-
ation Enduring Freedom;
Whereas Fort Sill supported Operation
Iraqi Freedom in 2003 by deploying more
than 5,000 active duty soldiers and 400 re-
serve component soldiers, including—
(1) C Battery, 3rd Battalion, 13th Field Ar-
tillery, the first unit to deploy from Fort
Sill;
(2) the 75th Field Artillery Brigade, which
deployed more than 200 soldiers;
(3) the 1st Battalion, 14th Field Artillery,
which deployed approximately 300 soldiers;
(4) the 2nd Battalion, 18th Field Artillery,
which deployed approximately 300 soldiers;
(5) soldiers from the 17th Field Artillery
Brigade;
(6) soldiers from the 212th Field Artillery
Brigade; and
(7) additional soldiers and units;
Whereas Fort Sill is—
(1) the only active duty Army installation
of all the forts on the South Plains built dur-
ing the Indian Wars;
(2) the second-oldest continuously serving
military installation west of the Mississippi
River; and
(3) designated as a National Historic Land-
mark;
Whereas Fort Sill serves as home of—
(1) the United States Army Field Artillery
School;
(2) the United States Army Air Defense Ar-
tillery School;
(3) the 428th Field Artillery Training Bri-
gade;
(4) the 30th Air Defense Artillery Training
Brigade;
(5) the 434th Field Artillery Basic Combat
Training Brigade;
(6) the Marine Corps Field Artillery Mili-
tary Occupational Specialty School;
(7) a Marine Corps detachment;
(8) the 75th (Forces Command) Fires Bri-
gade; and
(9) the 31st (Forces Command) Air Defense
Artillery Brigade;
Whereas thousands of soldiers and Marines
have been trained for service in the Field Ar-
tillery at Fort Sill, including former Presi-
dent Harry S. Truman, who, during World
War I, became the commander of Company
D, 129th Field Artillery, entering combat in
the last few months of the war, moving his
horse-drawn battery to engage the enemy
and support the infantry, and firing his last
shot on the day of the Armistice at 10:45
a.m.;
Whereas the people of Oklahoma take
great pride in the history of Fort Sill and in
the continuing critical role the Field Artil-
lery plays in the defense of the United
States;
Whereas Fort Sill is known as the birth-
place of military combat aviation, where the
1st Aero Squadron, under Captain Benjamin
Foulois—
(1) uncrated new, unassembled airplanes
and put those planes together in 1915;
(2) pushed the Curtiss JN-3 planes (known
as ‘‘Flying Jennies’’) to Polo Field; and
(3) on Aug 10, 1915, flew the planes for the
first time;
Whereas Henry Post Army Airfield is the
oldest airfield in the Army, having been sur-
veyed and established by Captain H.R.
Eyrich in August 1917;
Whereas Henry Post Army Airfield is
named after Second Lieutenant Henry B.
Post, who was killed in a plane crash in Cali-
fornia in 1914;
Whereas several individuals associated
with Fort Sill have received the highest
honor for their bravery and sacrifice, includ-
ing—
(1) Captain Gary M. Rose, who received the
Medal of Honor for action in Laos in 1970 and
attended the Field Artillery Officer Basic
Course and Field Artillery Officer Advance
Course in the 1970s;
(2) First Lieutenant Lee R. Hartell, who
posthumously received the Medal of Honor
for action in the Korean War; and
(3) Sergeant First Class Jared Monti, who
received the Medal of Honor for heroic ac-
tion in Afghanistan;
Whereas the Fires Center of Excellence
consists of—
(1) the United States Army Field Artillery
School;
(2) the Air Defense Artillery School;
(3) the Directorate of Training Develop-
ment and Doctrine;
(4) the Capabilities Development and Inte-
gration Directorate;
(5) the Army Multi-Domain Targeting Cen-
ter; and
(6) additional tenant units;
Whereas Fort Sill is a large military in-
stallation in the United States, covering ap-
proximately 94,000 acres, with—
(1) a $2,261,000 economic impact to the
Lawton-Fort Sill region of Oklahoma in 2016;
and
(2) approximately 10,000 military and civil-
ian personnel as of 2016; and
Whereas the people of the Lawton-Fort Sill
region of Oklahoma fought to establish Fort
Sill and have continued to support Fort Sill
from its inception: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) honors Fort Sill in Lawton, Oklahoma,
on its 150th anniversary;
(2) commends the thousands of men and
women who have worked and trained at Fort
Sill;
(3) honors the people of the Lawton-Fort
Sill region of Oklahoma for their continued
support of Fort Sill; and
(4) encourages Fort Sill to continue its in-
strumental role in preparing the brave men
and women of the United States for the bat-
tlefield.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—S. 47
Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I under-
stand there is a bill at the desk, and I
ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the first time.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 47) to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
Mr. ROUNDS. I now ask for a second
reading, and in order to place the bill
on the calendar under the provisions of
rule XIV, I object to my own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection having been heard, the bill will
be read for the second time on the next
legislative day.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 9, 2019
Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m., Wednesday, Janu-
ary 9; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, that following
the leader remarks, the Senate resume
consideration of the motion to proceed
to S. 1; finally, that the Senate recess
from 12:15 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. to allow
for the weekly conference meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, if there
is no further business to come before
the Senate, I ask unanimous consent
that it stand adjourned under the pre-
vious order, following the remarks of
our Democratic colleagues.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I
come to the floor tonight to talk about
hostages, seven hostages—seven spend-
ing bills that have come through this
Republican-led Chamber, bills the
House is ready to move forward on that
have, ironically, been taken hostage by
the Republican leadership of the Sen-
ate and the President of the United
States.
Those seven hostages, those spending
bills, the House has said: Well, Mr.
President, we have a difference of opin-
ion that has to be worked out, and that
is Homeland Security. So let’s con-
tinue that debate while setting the
other six free—freedom for six bills
passed by the Republican-led Senate so
we can put America back to work.
It sounds like a pretty good idea, but
good ideas and common sense seem to
be victims—victims of this Presi-
dential temper tantrum over a symbol
on the southern border. So it shut
down nine Cabinet Departments: Agri-
culture, Commerce, Justice, Homeland
Security, Housing, Interior, State,
Transportation, and the Treasury—af-
fecting all kinds of everyday functions
for Americans.
The local schools keep functioning.
They figure it out. The local city
doesn’t shut down. The county doesn’t
shut down. Has your State shut down?
I don’t think so. So why this childish
behavior, why this incompetence, why
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA6.022 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S73
January 8, 2019
this disregard for the quality of life for
Americans?
There are 800,000 workers who are ei-
ther instructed to work without pay or
who are instructed to go on furlough.
We are all affected. Every one of us is
affected by these Departments being
shut down, but those 800,000 workers
don’t get a paycheck.
What does that mean when they try
to write the check that will pay for
their mortgage or their rent, their stu-
dent’s tuition, or their utility bill?
How do they keep the lights turned on?
It is all fine for the President. His
lights are staying on. He is not incon-
venienced, but these 800,000 Americans
are more than inconvenienced. They
are put into a hard place over this hos-
tage-taking by the President and the
Republican leadership of this body.
Out in Oregon, the estimate—admit-
tedly somewhat imprecise—is that 9,000
workers have been affected. It seems in
the ballpark. Oregon’s population is
about 1 percent of the country, and 1
percent of 800,000 is 8,000. So 9,000
sounds in the ballpark. There are 9,000
Oregonians who are affected by this
foolishness.
An air traffic controller wrote to me
and said, we are ‘‘tired of being a pawn
in the partisan games that are being
played in Washington. . . . These shut-
downs have compromised aviation safe-
ty.’’
He said they hinder the FAA’s ability
to hire and train new controllers and
upgrade air traffic control systems.
They break down morale and an al-
ready understaffed and frustrated
workforce.
Then there is the constituent who
wrote to me to say: ‘‘It is unconscion-
able for Trump to deprive Federal em-
ployees of earned and necessary in-
come, holding them hostage for his
foolish wall.’’
There are seven spending bills held
hostage, along with 800,000 Americans
and their families’ finances.
There is the young man in Lane
County whom I spoke with after one of
my townhall meetings last week. He
was supposed to be moving to Cali-
fornia to begin working in the Sierra
National Forest this past weekend. He
was all set to go, giving up his current
living arrangements because he was
going to be moving into Forest Service
housing. Then the shutdown happened.
Now he has no job, has no key to undo
the lock. He has no ability to move
into that Forest Service housing. He is
stranded. There are just all kinds of ev-
eryday stories of challenges to Ameri-
cans.
To President Trump, I say: Listen.
Listen to the voices of ordinary Ameri-
cans who are having a hard time be-
cause of you and because of the leader-
ship of this Senate—the Republican
leadership of this Senate. Ordinary
Americans are caught in the middle of
this.
This is your shutdown, Mr. President.
You said so. You said it on television.
You said it from the Oval Office. You
said you were proud to own this shut-
down. You said:
I am not going to blame anybody else. This
is my shutdown.
Yes, it is, Mr. Trump. Mr. President,
it is your shutdown, and it is not a
shutdown with a mission, a mission
that is important, because the mission
that is important, that you talk about,
is border security.
Every Democrat, every Republican
supports border security. All of us who
were here in 2013 voted for huge sums.
I have heard some describe that bill we
passed in 2013 as $35 billion for border
security. I heard in an earlier speech
tonight that it was over $40 billion for
border security, smart border secu-
rity—smart border security.
Don’t you want to spend the tax-
payers’ dollars smartly? Do you want
to waste them? Do you want to shut
down the government and create a
hardship for 800,000 people because you
want to waste their money?
Mr. President, and to my colleagues
across the aisle, listen to the common
sense of people in your home State who
want border security, but they don’t
want a foolish shutdown.
The President said there is a crisis—
crisis—at the border because so many
people are coming. How many people
are coming to the border? Let’s take a
look. This shows the number of folks
who have been apprehended at the bor-
der from the year 2000—19 years ago
now—to year-to-date in 2018. This is
slightly out of date, so you can add a
little bit more to that final bar, but
you see the point. There were massive
amounts in the year 2000, really high
numbers in 2001 through 2007, and then
the numbers dramatically decline
through 2011 and beyond.
I just got the numbers before I came
to the floor for the last month we had,
which was October. About 60,000 people
came to the border. In 1 month, in 2000,
200,000 people came to the border. That
is quite a difference. That is now less
than one-third than last month.
There is no crisis there, only the hu-
manitarian crisis, Mr. Trump, that you
are creating with your war on chil-
dren—your war on migrant children—
shoving them back into Mexico to put
them at the mercy of the Mexican
gangs; proceeding to let them into the
United States and then ripping them
out of the arms of their parents while
you lock up their parents; deciding you
are going to lock up the children with
their parents behind barbed wire and
internment camps; establishing a na-
tional system of child prisons that, last
month, held 15,000 children, which is up
from 7,000 in June; failing to provide
medical evaluations for these children
when they cross the border. Two have
died—one after 6 days in the care of the
American border guard.
You, Mr. President, have created a
crisis, a humanitarian crisis. The arriv-
als on the border are not the crisis; it
is your hardened heart, your dark and
evil heart, your war on children; the
deliberate strategy of inflicting trau-
ma on children in order to send a mes-
sage of deterrence, a political message
of deterrence.
Who here believes it is right to delib-
erately injure children to send a mes-
sage of deterrence? That is the strat-
egy Jeff Sessions announced last May
that started this intense assault on mi-
grant children. Who would defend it
today? Find me one caretaker of chil-
dren who believes that inflicting trau-
ma on children is acceptable. Find me
one religious tradition, one moral code
that says that is OK—because it is not
OK. Every human civilization recog-
nizes that.
Meanwhile, our farmers are won-
dering what happened to their Farm
Service Agencies. They are closed down
across the country, including 23 in Or-
egon. What happened to those pay-
ments that the President promised for
those affected by tariffs? The payments
can’t be distributed because of the
shutdown. How about our Federal fire-
fighters who need to be in training
right now for the fires we are going to
see next summer because of climate
chaos?
We are seeing the impacts in every
conceivable way, as my colleagues
have been pointing out, and it is time
to end it. It is time to release the hos-
tages. It is way past time to end it. It
has 18 days—3 days from the longest
shutdown in history. It is time to end
it, put people back to work, return to
common sense, and at the same time
quit afflicting children and migrant
adults as a political strategy.
Almost everybody—probably every-
one in this room—came here as a de-
scendant of immigrants, almost all
Americans. Not many of us are directly
descended from Native Americans.
Most of us are descendants from immi-
grants. How did we want them to be
treated? We wanted them to be treated
with respect and decency as they wait-
ed for an asylum hearing, and that is
what we have to return to.
So release the hostages, return to
common sense, and treat the American
people with respect.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I join in
raising these issues tonight about the
government shutdown. The reason so
many of us have referred to it simply
as the ‘‘Trump shutdown’’ is because
the President is the person who led the
way to have the government shut
down. He said that before the shut-
down, as we all know. We have heard
the statement he made in the Oval Of-
fice.
Then, of course, we went forward. I
think it is important to reset where we
have been and where we are.
There was an agreement in this body,
the U.S. Senate, by 100 Senators, just
before Christmas, to extend funding for
the government for a short period of
time so that if there were issues to de-
bate between now and February, we
could do that. It is hard to get 100 Sen-
ators to agree on anything around
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.050 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S74 January 8, 2019
here, but of course that is what hap-
pened.
Then it went to the House, and we
know what happened after that. The
President got pressure from rightwing
talk show hosts, and I guess they have
more influence on him than a lot of
Americans, who never want a govern-
ment shutdown.
As we stand here tonight, 9 of 15 Fed-
eral Departments are closed, shut
down, and I am not even itemizing the
number of Agencies that is. Then we
came into the new year, on January 3—
I don’t know what hour it was, but it
was in the evening—with a new major-
ity in the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, a Democratic majority. What did
that Democratic majority do? What did
the Democratic House Speaker do? In
her first act as Speaker, and in essence
their first vote on substance, they
voted to open up the government by
voting in favor of a bill that was essen-
tially a Republican appropriations bill.
That is what the Democratic-con-
trolled House did. They voted to move
forward Republican appropriations
bills that were voted on here in com-
mittee but also were agreed to here, in
a sense, by consensus—a 100-to-0 con-
sensus just before Christmas. So there
is ample reason, there is a lot of docu-
mentary evidence—video evidence—
that this is a Trump shutdown.
I think it is important for people to
understand. I know some here call it a
partisan bill. No, it wasn’t. It was a bi-
partisan bill. It just happened to have
its origin in the work of Republicans in
the Senate—the Senate appropriations
work that was done by Republicans,
with Democratic help. Of course, this
Chamber is controlled by Republicans,
so these were Republican bills.
It is also important to know what
could happen here. There is legislation
now that the Senate can vote on that
will open the government up by doing
the following: by funding eight Depart-
ments of government until the 30th of
September. It is important for people
to understand that. They see the back
and forth, and they see how a bill like
that is characterized on television, but
it is important for people to know—and
I will keep saying it for emphasis be-
cause this is important we get the facts
right—this is an action by a House con-
trolled by Democrats to move forward
bills that virtually every Republican
agreed to in one way or another over
time on various occasions.
The effect of passing that bill here
would open the government for those
Agencies—those Departments is a more
correct word—those Departments that
are shut down right now, leaving only
one Department that would now be
funded over a longer term, the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security. That De-
partment would not be funded after a
certain date in February if we can’t
agree on funding until then.
What the effect of that is, it moves
forward the effort to keep the govern-
ment operating, to keep—just by way
of example—13,709 FBI agents who
could be working without pay, 4,399
DEA agents who could be working
without pay, and I can go down the
list. We have had many examples to-
night. I will not restate them. It allows
all of those operations of the Federal
Government to go forward but still pre-
serves the opportunity for the Presi-
dent or anyone to make assertions, to
make arguments, and to put forth pol-
icy regarding border security, no mat-
ter what it is. We could debate that
from now until that moment in Feb-
ruary—that date in February when the
Department of Homeland Security
would run out of money—and see what
would happen at that point.
That is what people have to under-
stand. There is a way to continue a de-
bate about border security, a very im-
portant debate. I voted for, I don’t
know how many tens of billions now—
billion with a ‘‘b’’—on border security
since I have been here. I voted for the
bill in 2013, the comprehensive bill that
got 68 votes here in 2013—68 votes. That
means a whole number of Republicans
voted for it. That committed more
than $40 billion to border security,
based upon the testimony of experts,
based upon people who understand bor-
der security. Let’s be honest, folks. A
lot of House Members and a lot of
Democrats and Republicans in both
parties and both Houses are not border
security experts. That is why we should
ask for their advice in telling us the
best way to secure the border. That is
essentially what happened in 2013,
when both parties voted—68 votes
here—to pass a comprehensive bill that
had more than $40 billion for border se-
curity.
That is how you do border security.
You don’t just say: Well, because I used
a word in a campaign, I used a sound
bite in a campaign, therefore, the
sound bite—which isn’t based upon
good policy—has to become the policy.
That is not how we should do things
here. No one in either party should do
it that way.
Now we are, I guess, 17 days since the
President decided to shut down the
government because he would not get
his wall. We should never confuse a
wall with border security. We all want
border security. I don’t know of a legis-
lator who doesn’t support that. Most
people here voted for it many times—
border security—based upon what the
experts tell us, not the politicians. If
we were using politicians for that kind
of expertise, we would be in big trou-
ble. We wouldn’t do that in many sub-
ject areas, including something as con-
sequential and as important and as
complicated as border security. We
should do it the right way and have a
debate about it and hear testimony
from experts, not just hot air from
politicians because they said a word or
two or three in a campaign. That is not
policy.
Right now, there are 820,000 Federal
employees, 14,000—some in Pennsyl-
vania, wondering how they are going to
make a mortgage payment or pay the
rent or buy food. The list is longer
than that. It is, in essence, appropria-
tions hostage-taking. My colleague re-
ferred to and used that word in his re-
marks earlier. This is appropriations
hostage-taking that hurts a lot of peo-
ple and will continue to hurt more and
more people as the days go on.
That is one of the reasons why I sup-
ported the legislation introduced by
Senators CARDIN and VAN HOLLEN that
would guarantee backpay for these
hard-working Federal employees who
do so many things for the American
people that we don’t itemize or praise,
except when there is a crisis like the
one we are facing right now, the crisis
of not having a government fully fund-
ed.
So the President shut down the gov-
ernment over a wall that will not
work, will not secure the border. Let’s
not confuse the two. We have always
made investments over time—both par-
ties, many administrations, many ses-
sions of Congress have made invest-
ments in effective border security
based upon the recommendations from
experts. We should do that again, as we
have done over many years. The secu-
rity experts over the number of years
charged with keeping our Nation safe
have said this concrete or steel wall
along the width of the southern border
will not work. It will not work.
Former Commissioner of Customs
and Border Patrol Gil Kerlikowske
said, in January 2017: ‘‘I think that
anyone who’s been familiar with the
southwest border and the terrain . . .
kind of recognizes that building a wall
along the entire southwest border is
probably not going to work.’’
That is someone who understands
this subject. That is what he said. He is
not a politician spewing out a sound
bite or just doing an interview. He is a
person who has dedicated a large por-
tion of his life to border security, and
we should listen to those voices.
Building a concrete wall will not stop
illegal activity. Border security—effec-
tive border security—will. What is
that? It is technology. It is 24-hour sur-
veillance. It is, as in the 2013 bill, in es-
sence, doubling the Border Patrol. I
think we could have hired 20,000 more
people at the border to do border en-
forcement. That is why the cost was so
high—because to hire 20,000 people
costs a lot of money, but that is what
we voted for then. I haven’t even listed
all of them, but those kinds of meth-
ods—battle-tested, proven methods to
secure the border will work. That is
what we should be doing.
According to a 2017 national drug as-
sessment report, most illegal smug-
gling happens at our ports of entry, not
crossing a line in a desert at the south-
west border—ports of entry. One exam-
ple is at our airports. Airports are
among the places we should be focusing
our attention. I haven’t heard the
President talk about airports. Maybe I
haven’t been listening, but he has been
President now for just about 2 years,
and I am not sure he has talked about
stopping smuggling at ports of entry.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.046 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S75
January 8, 2019
If the President was serious about se-
curing the southern border or fixing
our immigration system, he would
work with both parties, both Houses,
on an immigration system that would
secure the border and do a whole range
of things we need to do because we
have a broken system.
Here is my belief. I can’t prove this.
This is just my belief watching what he
has said and listening to his speeches
and listening to the policies he has sup-
ported and the policies he has not sup-
ported. I don’t believe the President
has any interest in fixing our broken
immigration system. He seems to have
an interest in building a wall that will
not work—I am rather certain of that—
but I don’t think he has any interest in
fixing this broken system. He has a
strong interest, in my judgment, of
scoring points, and I will give him
that. He is an expert at scoring polit-
ical points, but in terms of sitting
down with people in both parties, tak-
ing hours and hours and hours and
hours of testimony from border secu-
rity experts, or at least listening to the
presentations made here by way of
hearings or information that can be
ascertained in a hearing, I don’t think
he is willing to do that. I don’t think
he has any interest in doing that.
The Presiding Officer and many
Members of this Chamber, including
the Senator from New Hampshire and
the Senator from Virginia, worked long
and hard—not over hours but over days
and weeks—to come up with a proposal
last year which would have provided
$25 billion for border security over
about 10 years. It is a lot of money over
10 years, and they had to agree to that
based upon those expert recommenda-
tions. They also coupled that with a
statutory change that would make sure
those Dreamers in the DACA Program
were given the benefit of the fulfill-
ment of our promise to them. That
could have been done in law by statute,
and I commend Republicans who stood
up then and worked in a bipartisan
way.
What did the President do? He told
them he would back them up, that he
would sign that bill—that bill with $25
billion and a fix for the DACA Pro-
gram. Then his second promise he
made was, he said: I will take the heat.
It didn’t happen. He didn’t sign it. He
denigrated it. Of course, he didn’t take
the heat because he went running for
cover.
I don’t see much evidence on the
record that he wants to fix a broken
system. Everyone knows the system is
broken, everyone knows we have to
rely upon experts to secure the border,
everyone knows the path to citizenship
is complicated, but we had a way to do
that in the 2013 bill.
Everyone knows that the guest work-
er program and bringing people out of
the shadows and having order and rules
to our immigration system is com-
plicated and difficult. Everyone knows
you can’t do that with a sound bite.
You can’t do that with an image. You
can’t do that with a symbol. You have
to do it with policy. That is what you
have to do.
The President seems totally disin-
terested in sitting down and trying to
lead an effort on the kind of immigra-
tion reform that both parties know we
need and that most Americans know
we need as well. We all want to fix this
system with a comprehensive bill. I
mentioned the 2013 effort and what
that would have done.
Instead of wasting $5.6 billion on a
wall, we could use that money to re-
build our infrastructure or to invest in
border security that is based upon ex-
pertise. We could use $5.6 billion to do
a lot of infrastructure in my State and
a lot of States—fixing bridges, for ex-
ample. I live in a State, like many,
that has thousands of structurally defi-
cient bridges. We could use that money
to enhance our national security.
I am told that we are to understand
the President is looking for money—
the $5.6 billion—potentially out of the
Defense Department. Is that what we
should be doing with DOD dollars that
are meant for national security?
We could also use $5.6 billion to in-
vest in our children and thereby invest
in our future, but I don’t think the
President is interested in this. He
wants to win a sound bite war or an
image or symbol war, not fix the prob-
lem and not make the investments we
should make.
Instead of creating chaos and perpet-
uating chaos, the President should sup-
port the bipartisan funding bill the
House passed last week—the Demo-
cratic House, which passed the Repub-
lican bills, for a little shorthand there.
The bills would reopen the government
and also provide $1 billion for border
security that is based upon facts and
evidence and expertise and effective-
ness, not based upon some sound bite
and hot air.
The vast majority of Senate Repub-
licans supported these funding meas-
ures last Congress.
On August 1, Senate Republicans
joined Democrats to advance funding
for the Department of Agriculture, Fi-
nancial Services, Transportation,
Housing and Urban Development, and
Interior. That big appropriations bill is
affecting all those Agencies referred to
there. The vote was 92 to 6 on the floor
of the U.S. Senate. I don’t know who
the 6 were, but 92 is a good number—
and obviously in both parties.
The Commerce, Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies appropriations bill
passed out of committee—this is a
committee vote; not a floor vote but an
important vote—on June 14 by a vote
of 30 to 0.
The State-Foreign Operations bill
passed out of committee by a vote of 31
to 0.
So one bill passed on the floor 92 to
6, and the other committee votes were
30 to 0 and 31 to 0—again, bills passed
by a Democratic House that are, in
fact, Republican appropriations bills.
That is what the House did.
That bill is here, in essence. All the
majority leader has to do is put it on
the floor, and it will pass. The govern-
ment will be opened up, and we could
debate border security until the cows
come home—all the rest of January,
longer into February, as long as we all
agree to debate it. Let’s have a real de-
bate. Let’s not debate a sound bite
about an image that refers to a way
someone thinks we should do border se-
curity. Let’s have the evidence and put
it on the table. I think my point of
view on this would prevail, but let’s
hear from both sides.
We have a way out of this predica-
ment for the American people, a way to
provide certainty and relief to those
families who are suffering right now
and the many more families who will
continue to suffer if this continues.
It is time for the majority leader to
schedule a vote and stop making ex-
cuses why he shouldn’t. Let’s see what
happens if the President has to con-
front a bill passed by both Houses. If he
vetoes it, then it is further evidence
that he is not serious about border se-
curity, but we will see. Maybe the
President would sign a bill that was
passed by both parties in both Houses.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
ROUNDS). The Senator from New Hamp-
shire.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I
thank my colleague from Pennsyl-
vania, Senator CASEY, for his compel-
ling remarks. In fact, for the last sev-
eral hours, we have heard compelling
remarks from a number of our col-
leagues. I thank Senator KAINE from
Virginia for helping to organize this ef-
fort and all of those who have come to
the floor to talk about the lasting and
negative effects of this senseless shut-
down—a shutdown that is all about
President Trump yielding to Rush
Limbaugh and the rightwing com-
mentators who told them he wasn’t
being tough enough.
Senators CASEY and MARKEY re-
minded us how we got here, that we
had an agreement we thought the
President had committed to sign. His
Vice President, his Acting Chief of
Staff, told us he was going to sign it. It
passed the Senate on a voice vote.
What is so ironic, as Senator MARKEY
said, is that what is happening now is
actually making us less safe. The idea
that we have all of these people on our
southern border, all of these TSA
agents, people who are working, 800,000
employees, 400,000 who are furloughed,
380,000 who are working without pay—
that is actually making us less safe.
As Senator DURBIN pointed out, a
wall across our southern border
wouldn’t do anything to interdict the
fentanyl that is coming across from
China. That is the biggest killer of peo-
ple in New Hampshire from overdoses;
it is the fentanyl. As Senator JONES
pointed out, the Coast Guard’s role in
interdiction is what is significant. It is
not a wall that is going to keep out
those vehicles that are going to come
through our ports of entry.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.047 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S76 January 8, 2019
Senator STABENOW reminded us that
there are 38 million people who depend
on food assistance, and a quarter of the
people in New Mexico, as Senator HEIN-
RICH told us, depend on food assistance.
He quoted his constituent Kathy, who
pointed out that the President is hold-
ing us hostage. She said: Federal em-
ployees are being held hostage. We are
now being held hostage in the Senate
because the majority is unwilling to
act on the legislation that has passed
the House and previously passed the
Senate.
Senator BENNET talked about China
landing on the dark side of the Moon
last week. It is a reminder that we
have to compete in this world, that we
can’t assume that America is going to
be No. 1 in everything again. Yet, while
China was landing on the dark side of
the Moon, our government was shut
down. Thousands of researchers
weren’t doing their jobs at NASA, the
Department of Agriculture, and so
many other places because we were
shut down.
The cost to the economy as a whole,
as Senator HASSAN pointed out—there
are craft breweries in New Hampshire,
small businesses that can’t get their
businesses started because government
is shut down.
Senator KLOBUCHAR pointed out that
the cost to the economy, according to
the President’s own advisers, is $10 bil-
lion a week. At a time when the stock
market is going up and down, when we
have people losing billions of dollars
because of fluctuations in the stock
market, $10 billion a week contributes
to that uncertainty.
Then, of course, Senator VAN HOLLEN
and Senator MERKLEY and virtually ev-
erybody here talked about the impact
on ordinary Americans from this gov-
ernment shutdown. We are going to
hear from President Trump in about 5
minutes. He is going to speak to the
country. I will bet he doesn’t talk
about the impact on ordinary Ameri-
cans of this government shutdown. I
will bet he doesn’t talk about the cost
to the economy or what he promised to
sign when this Congress passed funding
bills. I will bet he doesn’t talk about
the future of America and what is
going to happen if we don’t continue to
invest in research and if we don’t con-
tinue to invest in our people and in-
stead get involved in these partisan
fights. No. I think what he is going to
do is tell Americans a made-up story
about the emergency at our southern
border—an emergency that we saw
from Senator DURBIN and Senator
MERKLEY is not real. We have gone
from 1.6 million people coming across
our southern border and being arrested
down to about 200,000 in the last year.
This is not a crisis that is affecting
America. We need to address border se-
curity. Everybody here believes that.
All of the people who spoke tonight
said we need to address border secu-
rity. We need to do it in a way that is
thoughtful and that spends taxpayer
dollars wisely.
It is time for us to act in the Senate.
It is time for Congress to fund this gov-
ernment, to get it back open. I very
much appreciate Senator KAINE’s work
here tonight as we talk about the im-
pacts on this country of this govern-
ment shutdown.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield to my colleague from Vir-
ginia.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I would
like to finish the colloquy of the Demo-
cratic Senators who talked about this
important issue—the need to reopen
the government and to stop the shut-
down—and I intend to do so before 9
o’clock. I want to thank my colleague
from New Hampshire and all the col-
leagues who appeared on the floor
today.
On Friday, January 11, if we do not
end this shutdown, it will be tied for
the longest shutdown of government in
the history of the United States. It is
also a payday where more than 800,000
Federal employees will not get a pay-
check. My quick census research sug-
gests that is essentially the population
of South Dakota. More than 800,000
people who just want to serve their
country, some of whom have been
forced to work without a paycheck,
will not get a paycheck on January.
Friday, January 11, is right after
Christmas, when a lot of Christmas
bills come due. Friday, January 11, is
in the middle of winter, when heating
bills are at their highest. Friday, Janu-
ary 11, is right before the beginning of
the college spring semester, and fami-
lies will be sitting around kitchen ta-
bles to write tuition checks for their
kids to go to school for the spring se-
mester. That will be this Friday.
This shutdown hurts workers. I told
stories of workers in Virginia who have
already suffered, and my colleagues
have as well.
It hurts citizens. I had the experience
two Saturdays ago of going to four
Federal—either national forests or
Park Service operations and seeing
gates closed. I watched families come
up. They had driven. They may not get
a lot of vacation. They had a lot of kids
in the car, and they were coming up to
have fun with their families that day. I
watched the looks on their faces as
they pulled to the locations and saw
the gates closed and the sign saying
that they weren’t able to enjoy the day
they had planned with their family.
That is not the same as missing a
mortgage payment, but for families
who are stretched in time and want to
spend a day enjoying time with each
other—I saw the looks on their faces as
they were turned away.
Mr. President, you and I have worked
together on an important initiative to
train students, college students, to be
our next cyber professionals. Today is
the cyber jobs fair that the National
Science Foundation sponsors for col-
lege students all over the country. It
was at National Harbor. I went there. I
walked by a lot of students who had
come because they want to serve the
country as cyber professionals, and
they were having interviews. But a lot
of the booths—the Department of Jus-
tice—there was a booth, there was a
sign, but there was nobody there. There
was nobody there from the Federal
Agency to hire.
These are effects on everyday citi-
zens, kids who want jobs, Federal agen-
cies that want to hire workers, families
who just want to go to the parks.
This is hurting workers, it is hurting
citizens, and it is hurting our country.
In conclusion, I just want to say:
Why? Why would we want to hurt Fed-
eral workers? Why would we want
them to be without a paycheck? Why
do we want to hurt everyday citizens?
Why do we want to hurt the reputation
of the country?
Because I could see from the looks on
the faces of those getting turned away
at the park not just aggravation, I
could see: What kind of country is this?
I am a hard-working person, I pay
taxes, I am coming to a national park,
I am coming to a national forest, and I
am getting turned away because the
President wants to shut down the gov-
ernment over a debate about border se-
curity.
You know, Mr. President, because
you and I worked on it together, in
February, $25 billion for border secu-
rity, that wasn’t enough. The President
blew up the deal. Five years ago, $44
billion of border security wasn’t
enough for the Republican House.
We want to fund border security, but
as I conclude, I just would say to this
President: Do not hurt American work-
ers. Do not hurt American citizens. Do
not hurt the reputation of the greatest
country on Earth.
I would say to my Republican col-
leagues, please be willing to vote and
support exactly what you voted and
supported just 3 weeks ago.
Why the change in position? Why was
it OK in December, and it is not OK
now? Is it not OK because the Presi-
dent suddenly said he didn’t like it? Is
it the job of the article I branch to play
Mother May I with the President and
seek his permission to be an article I
branch? I don’t believe it is. Let’s end
this shutdown. Let’s reopen govern-
ment. Let’s do border security and im-
migration reform the right way.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 9:01 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, January 9,
2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G08JA6.053 S08JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E13
January 8, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF DON CAPALBI
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Ms. MENG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
pay tribute to Don Capalbi, my longtime staff
member who also served as a civic leader in
my district in Queens, New York.
Don passed away at local hospice facility in
the early morning hours of December 2, 2018.
He had been hospitalized at Northwell Health
after sustaining a head injury from a fall.
Don was my Community Liaison from 2013
to 2018 and he served in the same capacity
when I was a member of the New York State
Assembly from 2009 to 2012. My staff and I
are devastated by his loss.
Don worked tirelessly for the people of our
Congressional district. He was an integral part
of my team, providing me with information and
advice about community issues, and rep-
resenting me at civic meetings and local
events. These included everything from com-
munity board and civic group meetings to
press conferences and public ceremonies.
One of the most recent issues he helped re-
solve was for the local Veterans of Foreign
Wars (VFW) Post 3427 where he helped save
costly fines.
Don was a longtime resident of the
Queensboro Hill neighborhood, a residential
community in Flushing, Queens. In 2009, he
became president of the area’s civic group,
the Queensboro Hill Flushing Civic Associa-
tion. Don reinvigorated the organization and
fought tremendously for the community. He
dedicated countless hours to preserving and
improving the quality of life in the neighbor-
hood and tackled numerous causes. He fought
against excessive airplane noise, advocated
for traffic and transportation improvements,
pushed for beautification enhancements and
partnered with local schools and libraries on a
variety of projects. He also worked to combat
the increase of overdevelopment and many
newspapers, from the Flushing Times to the
New York Times, highlighted his efforts on the
issue.
In addition, Don was a member of many
other community organizations in the Flushing
area including the Greater Flushing Chamber
of Commerce, New York Hospital Queens
Community Advisory Council, 109th Precinct
Community Council, Kissena Corridor Park
Conservancy, Lions Club, Knights of Colum-
bus and the NAACP.
But Don was much more than a terrific civic
activist and staff member. He was also a great
human being; a wonderful and special person
who was selfless and full of life, and one of
the kindest, friendliest and gentlest people I’ve
known. He touched and impacted so many
lives and was loved, admired and respected
by all with whom he worked. Rarely did I see
him without a smile on his face.
Born on March 2, 1945, Don was raised in
Astoria, Queens. His mother Gaetana was an
immigrant from Italy, and his father Frank
hailed from Indiana. Don graduated from La
Salle Academy High School and went on to
attend Long Island University where he earned
a degree in Business Administration. An only
child, Don was primarily raised by his mother;
his father passed away when he was just 10
years old. Don loved his mother dearly and he
cared for her as she grew older. With his help,
she lived to the ripe old age of 103.
At the 1964–1965 World’s Fair at Flushing
Meadows-Corona Park, Don worked at the
restaurant that was part of the famed
Rheingold exhibit, and the job planted a seed
for a career he had in the restaurant and food
service business.
While working at the World’s Fair, Don saw
firsthand the popularity of the Belgian waffles
that the Fair helped introduce to the nation.
Showing what a visionary entrepreneur he
was, Don purchased two mobile food trucks
and used the vehicles to sell the famous waf-
fles to the public, a venture that lasted several
years.
Later on, Don supervised restaurant groups
for Restaurant Associates Industries in Man-
hattan, and Inhilco division of Hilton Inter-
national, where his responsibilities included
the operation of six restaurants in the World
Trade Center.
Don then opened the Border Cafe on the
Upper West Side of Manhattan, and later the
College Green pub on Kissena Boulevard near
Queens College.
In addition, inspired by his love of travel,
Don launched Away U Go Travel, a travel
agency for people with disabilities.
Despite Queens being the home of the New
York Mets, Don was a diehard Yankees fan,
and often discussed his fondness for the
Bronx Bombers and the game of baseball. He
loved all types of food from soup dumplings to
pasta, enjoyed traveling—particularly on
cruises—and was proud of his Italian heritage.
He was also a fan of Caribbean music. But
above all, he loved Queens. He had a deep
affection for the borough he called home and
always embraced its diversity, history and cul-
ture.
I thank Don for his many years of dedica-
tion, and I will always remember his unwaver-
ing commitment to our constituents, and his
many efforts to make our Congressional dis-
trict a better place for all who live and work in
west, central and northeast Queens. His con-
tributions will have a lasting impact for many
years to come.
There are so many wonderful words that
can be used to describe Don. Simply put, he
was a class act; a decent and honorable per-
son and a man of great integrity who served
his community and our district with tremen-
dous distinction.
Madam Speaker, I ask all my colleagues in
the House of Representatives to join me in
praising the work and dedication of Don
Capalbi. He will be sorely missed but the leg-
acy of his service, and the contributions he
made to help others, will never be forgotten.
He will remain in our hearts forever.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ALAN S. LOWENTHAL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. LOWENTHAL. Madam Speaker, on Roll
Call 470, in the second session of the 115th
Congress, I was unable to vote because of a
personal conflict. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘nay.’’
On Roll Call 472, in the second session of
the 115th Congress, I was unable to vote be-
cause of a personal conflict. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘nay.’’
On Roll Call 488, in the second session of
the 115th Congress, I was unable to vote be-
cause of a personal conflict. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE AND
SERVICE OF DR. MARTIN LU-
THER KING, JR. DURING THE
GARY FRONTIERS SERVICE
CLUB’S 40TH ANNUAL MEMORIAL
BREAKFAST
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, as we
celebrate the birth of Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr. and reflect on his life and work, we are re-
minded of the challenges that democracy
poses to us and the delicate nature of liberty.
Dr. King’s life and, unfortunately, his untimely
death, remind us that we must continually
work to secure and protect our freedoms. In
his courage to act, his willingness to meet
challenges, and his ability to achieve, Dr. King
embodied all that is good and true in the battle
for liberty.
The spirit of Dr. King lives on in the citizens
of communities throughout our nation. It lives
on in the people whose actions reflect the
spirit of resolve and achievement that will help
move our country into the future. I am honored
to rise today to recognize several individuals
from Indiana’s First Congressional District who
will be recognized during the 40th Annual Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Breakfast on
Saturday, January 19, 2019, at the Genesis
Convention Center in Gary, Indiana. The Gary
Frontiers Service Club, which was founded in
1952, sponsors this annual breakfast.
The Gary Frontiers Service Club will pay
tribute to local individuals who have for dec-
ades selflessly contributed to improving the
quality of life for the people of Gary. This year,
Dr. Janet Seabrook, M.D., MBA, will be hon-
ored with the prestigious Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr. Drum Major Award. Additionally,
Sharon Chambers, Wendell Clayton Harris,
Sr., Nellie Moore, and Monroe Smith will be
recognized as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
Marchers at this year’s breakfast.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K08JA8.001 E08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E14 January 8, 2019
Though very different in nature, the achieve-
ments of each of these individuals reflect
many of the same attributes that Dr. King pos-
sessed, as well as the values he advocated.
Like Dr. King, these individuals saw chal-
lenges and faced them with unwavering
strength and determination. Each one of the
honored guests’ greatness has been found in
their willingness to serve with ‘‘a heart full of
grace and a soul generated by love.’’ They set
goals and work selflessly to make them a re-
ality.
Madam Speaker, I invite you and my other
distinguished colleagues to join me in com-
mending these honorees, as well as the Gary
Frontiers Service Club officers, President Oli-
ver Gilliam, who also served as the MLK
Breakfast Chairman, Vice President Charles
Jackson, Secretary Linnal Ford, Financial Sec-
retary Melvin Ward, and Treasurer Floyd Don-
aldson, and all members of the service club
for their initiative, determination, and dedica-
tion to serving the people of Northwest Indi-
ana.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF DON
JACKSON
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and pay tribute to the life of Don Jack-
son, a lifelong philanthropist highly invested in
improving the Central Valley, who passed
away on December 21, 2018, at the age of
82.
Mr. Jackson was born in 1936 in Chicago,
Illinois and raised in Tucson, Arizona. He
earned his bachelor’s degree from the Univer-
sity of Arizona and later went on to study law
at Stanford University. Upon completion of his
studies, he was admitted to the California
State Bar in 1962.
Shortly thereafter, Mr. Jackson started his
own tax law and estate planning practice,
which would become one of the largest and
most successful firms in Fresno. Along with
his legal expertise, Don was also heavily ac-
tive in the political sphere, working on both the
Reagan and Bush presidential campaigns, in
addition to numerous other California cam-
paigns. In 1998, Governor Pete Wilson ap-
pointed Mr. Jackson to the California Public
Employee Relations Board. As a devoted Ro-
tarian and a passionate philanthropist, Mr.
Jackson served on several boards, including
the Gazarian Real Estate Center Advisory
Board at Fresno State, the Saint Agnes Med-
ical Center Foundation Board, the Dominican
Hospital Foundation Board in Santa Cruz, and
co-founding the Central Valley Women’s Con-
ference.
In addition to these laudable accomplish-
ments, the legacy for which he will be best re-
membered is his instrumental role in the
founding of the Senator Kenneth L. Maddy In-
stitute at California State University, Fresno;
which works to inspire and engage a new gen-
eration of government leaders in addition to
providing non-partisan policy analysis to re-
solve the issues facing the region, the state,
and the nation. For much of their adult lives,
Senator Maddy and Mr. Jackson were close
friends as well as law partners. In honor of
Senator Maddy’s legacy, Mr. Jackson chaired
the Board from 1999 to 2009, for the first 10
years since the Institute’s inception, and until
this past year, he served the Maddy Institute
as CFO and Treasurer.
During his tenure as Chair, Mr. Jackson es-
tablished vital programs such as the Maddy
Legislative Intern Program, the Maddy Associ-
ates Program, the Maddy Report, and the
Maddy Daily e-newsletter. He provided schol-
arships for over 150 federal and state legisla-
tive interns, founding the Don Jackson Public
Finance Intern Scholarship Program, and rais-
ing over $1 million in grants, events, and pro-
grams for the Institute. He was an exceptional
strategist, who will be forever remembered by
those he touched for his high standard of ex-
cellence, his mentorship, and his commitment
to making the Valley a better place.
Mr. Jackson is survived by his brother and
sister, his 6 children, and 8 grandchildren for
whom he has always shown dedication and
affection. It is my honor to stand with Mr. Don
Jackson’s family in celebration of the life of
this inspirational man.
Madam Speaker, it is with profound respect
that I ask my colleagues to join me in recog-
nizing the life, remarkable career, and
achievements of Mr. Don Jackson. His legacy
and dedication to our beautiful Valley will be
remembered for years to come.
f
HONORING THE CAREER OF
COLONEL STEPHEN MCCARTNEY
HON. JAMES R. LANGEVIN
OF RHODE ISLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the career of Stephen
McCartney, Chief of Police of the City of War-
wick, Rhode Island, my hometown. Chief
McCartney retired on December 21, 2018,
concluding decades of unwavering dedication
to his community and to his country.
In 1969, the same year that he graduated
from Providence College with a degree in his-
tory, Chief McCartney joined the United States
Marine Corps. Over his thirty years of service
in the armed forces, he fought in Vietnam and
in the Gulf War, and he even assisted in train-
ing Rwandan law enforcement as the country
rebuilt from unspeakable tragedy. He held
every infantry position from the platoon up to
the regimental level before transitioning to re-
serve service, and he received numerous mili-
tary distinctions, including the Naval and Ma-
rine Corps Medal for heroism.
Soon after his return from Vietnam, Chief
McCartney joined the Providence Police De-
partment, serving for nearly 26 years in many
roles. He directed the department’s first
mounted unit, spent several years as the di-
rector of training, and commanded the Neigh-
borhood Response Unit. After 15 years with
the patrol bureau, he moved to the detective
bureau—eventually overseeing more than 150
major investigations as its director.
Chief McCartney transitioned to the Warwick
Police Department in 1999, where he served
nearly 20 years as the Chief of Police with dis-
tinction, honor, and dedication. His tenure was
marked by his humility, his professionalism,
and his commitment not only to the safety of
the community, but also to each officer under
his command. Countless individuals within the
department have considered him a mentor,
and countless others both inside and outside
of the department have considered him a true
friend, myself included. Warwick has been tre-
mendously fortunate to have had such an ex-
emplary public servant.
Although his leadership will certainly be
missed at the department, I am sure he will
continue to find ways to make a difference,
and I wish him well.
f
CONGRATULATING MR. TORRES ON
BEING A RECIPIENT OF THE IL-
LINOIS BICENTENNIAL HONOR 200
CAMPAIGN
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Mr. Raymond Torres for being a
recipient of the Illinois Bicentennial Honor 200
campaign. The award is given by the Illinois
Department of Veterans’ Affairs and the Illinois
Bicentennial Office to honor veterans who
have given back to their communities after
their service.
From Sterling, Illinois, Mr. Torres honorably
served our nation in the Vietnam War, where
he was wounded in the battle of Khe Sanh.
Upon his return, Mr. Torres developed Post
Traumatic Stress Disorder and has since
made it his mission to help others who have
gone through similar experiences. In 2015, I
had the privilege of meeting Mr. Torres and
his family in my Rock Island Office where I
presented him with service medals he had not
previously received. Mr. Torres’ honors consist
of a Purple Heart, National Defense Service
Medal, Vietnam Service Medal, Presidential
Unit Citation and a Combat Action Ribbon. It
is fitting that Mr. Torres is honored for both his
past and present service to our state and our
nation, as Illinois celebrates its 200th birthday.
His service is exemplary and I am humbled to
have had the opportunity to meet him.
It is because of dedicated leaders such as
Mr. Raymond Torres that I am especially
proud to serve Illinois’ 17th Congressional Dis-
trict. Madam Speaker, I would like to again
formally congratulate Mr. Torres for receiving
this honor and thank him for all he does for
veterans in our communities.
f
RECOGNIZING JUDGE WILLIAM
OSWALT
HON. ROBERT B. ADERHOLT
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I would
like to recognize and honor Fayette County
Probate Judge William Oswalt on the occasion
of his retirement. I am proud to recognize
Judge Oswalt for his thirty years of public
service to Fayette County and the State of
Alabama. He is truly a man who embodies the
American principles of hard work and devotion
to one’s community.
Judge Oswalt is a life-long resident of Fay-
ette County, Alabama. After graduating from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08JA8.001 E08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E15
January 8, 2019
Winfield High School in 1967, he went on to
graduate from the University of Alabama in
1975 with a degree in accounting.
In 1988, Judge Oswalt was first elected to
the office of Probate Judge. He was re-elected
in 1994, 2000, 2006 and 2012, serving a total
of five terms. As Probate Judge, he became a
strong leader in the community and promoted
economic development for the region. In par-
ticular, he has been actively involved in re-
cruiting industry and has made that a priority
throughout his years of service. He worked
closely with county and civic leaders in Fay-
ette, Lamar and Marion counties to create C3
of Northwest Alabama, a regional economic
development cooperative. He also helped cre-
ate the Fayette Community Foundation and
still serves as its chairman. Furthermore, he
served as chairman of the Fayette County
Courthouse Restoration Foundation and as a
past chairman of the Alabama Probate Judges
Association.
Over the years, Judge Oswalt has worked
closely with seven Alabama Governors, five
Senators, two Congressmen and countless
mayors and county commissioners, as well as
the heads of numerous federal and state
agencies to promote the needs of Fayette
County. Through his leadership, Fayette
County is one of Alabama’s strongest and
most progressive rural counties.
Judge Oswalt is a member of Grace Baptist
Church where he has taught the Senior Adult
Sunday School class for the last 42 years. He
is married to Nelda Langston Oswalt, his wife
of 47 years, and they have three children:
Deidre, Whitney and Audrey and six grand-
children: Tanner, Dylan, Langston, Hollis,
Houston and Harrison.
Judge Oswalt has gained the respect by the
people of Fayette County for his honesty, hard
work, and dedication, and I am proud to call
him my friend.
Madam Speaker, it is a great privilege to
honor Probate Judge William Oswalt on his
many accomplishments and for his enduring
impact on Fayette County and the State of
Alabama. I join his family, friends and col-
leagues in wishing him God’s richest blessings
in his retirement and the next chapter in his
life.
f
HONORING JUDGE PAUL CHERRY
HON. JIM BANKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
congratulate Judge Paul R. Cherry on retiring
from his position as Magistrate Judge of the
United States District Court of the Northern
District of Indiana. Judge Cherry graduated
from Huntington University in 1973 and ob-
tained his J.D. from Ohio Northern University
School of Law in 1977. He began his distin-
guished legal career in private practice from
1978–1988 and was elected as the DeKalb
County Prosecuting Attorney three years later.
Judge Cherry went on to become a DeKalb
County Circuit Court Judge and on October 1,
2003, he was appointed to the United States
Court of the Northern District of Indiana as a
Magistrate Judge.
Judge Cherry has had a distinguished ca-
reer on the bench and has helped to keep our
community safe. He has tried two capital
cases, numerous drug related cases, and con-
ducted his hearings in a fair and professional
manner. In his spare time Judge Cherry is a
member of several bar associations and has
served as an adjunct faculty member at Hun-
tington University, Calumet College, and
Valparaiso Law School.
I applaud Judge Cherry on all his accom-
plishments and thank him for a lifetime of
service to our community.
f
HONORING THE WONDERFUL LIFE
OF MRS. CLELA VIRGINIA WANA-
MAKER
HON. DEBBIE LESKO
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and celebrate the wonderful life of
Mrs. Clela Virginia Wanamaker. At 97 years
old, Clela passed away peacefully at her
home in Sun City West, Arizona on December
9, 2018, with her husband of 72 years by her
side. Clela was born on January 9, 1921, in
Iowa. Clela had a long and distinguished ca-
reer as a registered nurse. She worked at
Holy Family Hospital in Estherville, Iowa, be-
fore she and her husband moved to Wayzata,
Minnesota in 1949. There, she worked as an
industrial nurse for 27 years at Honeywell and
retired in 1979. She married Bohn E. Wana-
maker, her ‘‘Mr. Wonderful’’, on October 17,
1946, in Estherville, Iowa. They lived most of
their married life in Wayzata, Minnesota, retir-
ing in Sun City West, Arizona in 1980.
Clela was an accomplished archery cham-
pion. Her husband, Bohn, was her coach and
was one of four qualified archery coaches in
Minnesota in 1966. Her first award came in
1966 when she finished 10th in the 82nd Na-
tional Archery Tournament where she zeroed
in 492 arrows and was the first to record a
‘‘Six Gold’’ by shooting six arrows in succes-
sion into the gold center of the target at 40
yards. Remarkably, Clela accomplished that
feat after beginning serious practice less than
a year earlier. Almost as incredible was that
she was 45 years old at the time. The fol-
lowing year she added two silver and two
bronze medals in the nationals. In 1969, she
qualified for the world championships. Also, in
1969, she won the first of seven Minnesota
state championships. In 1971, Clela was the
first woman in the United States to shoot
1,200 scores back-to-back. Only three other
women at that time had ever shot a 1,200 in
the United States. Clela later became involved
in pistol shooting and won many awards in
that sport as well.
Clela was also an active member of the
community. More than 30 years ago, Clela
made a decision to do something about obe-
sity in the Sun City West community and start-
ed a diet group, Win and Lose. Clela was
nominated for the ‘‘Salute to Senior Service
Contest’’ for recognition of her 31 years of vol-
unteer services, helping hundreds of men and
women lose their excess weight and get
healthy. As a result of this contest, in early
summer of 2013 she was named Arizona Out-
standing Senior Volunteer. She continued this
club until about six months ago. She was also
an active member of Arrowhead Republican
Women.
Clela was a valuable member of her com-
munity and she will be greatly missed by her
family, friends, and the Sun City West commu-
nity. On behalf of Arizona’s Eighth Congres-
sional District, I extend my deepest condo-
lences to Clela’s husband, Bohn Wanamaker,
their family, and their friends who mourn this
loss.
f
HONORING COURTNEY CALLEJAS
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to Courtney Callejas. After
joining my team as an intern in my first term
in office, she departs this week, more than
four years later, as a trusted legislative assist-
ant covering a wide range of important issues.
Courtney is a native of the second congres-
sional district of California, the most beautiful
district in the country, and her fondness for the
people and places of the North Bay have
served her very well in her work. She grad-
uated from Sonoma State University in 2012,
and after attaining a Master of Science in
International Relations degree from Kingston
University in London, she returned to her
hometown of Petaluma for a job with the fam-
ily-owned Straus Family Creamery, a leading
organic dairy in our region. Her work ethic and
enthusiasm brought her success in that role,
but then—fortunately—her desire to get in-
volved in public policy brought her east to
Washington, D.C.
Over the course of the next several years,
Courtney has worked her way up and done a
little of everything in the office: managing in-
terns and greeting constituents, strengthening
my constituent correspondence program, and,
ultimately, becoming a legislative assistant. In
the 115th Congress, Courtney staffed the cre-
ation of our new Congressional Freethought
Caucus and has been integral to our efforts to
bring accountability to the Trump administra-
tion, especially in the realms of campaign fi-
nance and foreign policy. Her intellectual curi-
osity, desire to help others, and dedication to
public service were clear from the beginning,
and her time living and working in the North
Bay have given her important personal in-
sights into the district’s interests and needs.
Madam Speaker, as Courtney moves on to
the staff of Congresswoman JENNIFER WEXTON
of her adopted state of Virginia, we will miss
her generous spirit, hometown pride, and in-
fectious laugh, and we wish her the best of
luck in her new adventure.
f
RECOGNIZING GREGORY E.
SAUNDERS
HON. DONALD S. BEYER, JR.
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Gregory E. Saunders for his ex-
traordinary public service as he retires from
his current position as Director of the Defense
Standardization Program Office. Director
Saunders leaves the federal government after
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08JA8.005 E08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E16 January 8, 2019
49 years protecting our country through a vari-
ety of posts within the Defense Department.
His tireless efforts procuring and overseeing
materiel have helped keep our nation’s military
effectively armed and combat-ready.
Prior to his leadership as Director of the De-
fense Standardization Program Office, Mr.
Saunders served as the Deputy Director for
Acquisition Processes in the Office of the Sec-
retary of Defense and staff member of the De-
fense Material Specifications and Standards
Office.
This is hardly the first time Director
Saunders’s prowess has been recognized. He
is the recipient of many well-deserved awards,
including the Department of Defense Civilian
Service Award, the Joint Meritorious Unit
Award, and the Vice President’s Golden Ham-
mer Award. Engineering societies from around
the world have recognized Director Saunders’s
rigorous methodology and skillset, awarding
him with recognition from the Standards Engi-
neering Society, SAE International, and the in-
dustry’s Equal Partner Award. Perhaps most
notably, Dr. Saunders has received the Silver
Star of the Polish Army.
Director Saunders exemplifies the ideals of
service and will be sorely missed. I am sad to
see him leave, but even more proud to con-
gratulate him on a well-earned retirement after
a distinguished career in civil service.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE FIFTH
ANNIVERSARY OF BEAUTIFUL:
THE CAROLE KING MUSICAL AND
ALL THE AMAZING CONTRIBU-
TIONS THAT CAROLE KING HAS
MADE TO NEW YORK AND OUR
COUNTRY
HON. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize my
dear friend Carole King, arguably the most
prodigious singer-songwriter of our century, for
the fifth anniversary of Beautiful: The Carole
King Musical which is based on her life and
career.
Beautiful: The Carole King Musical opened
on Broadway on January 12, 2014. After its
first season the show won a Grammy for Best
Musical Theater Album as well as two Tony
awards. In 2015 it opened on London’s West
End, garnering 2 Olivier Awards. The show is
now entering its sixth year.
Carole King launched her extraordinary mu-
sical career as a songwriter at the young age
of seventeen with the song ‘‘Will You Love Me
Tomorrow,’’ co-written alongside her then-hus-
band Gerry Goffin. She continued to cowrite
dozens of subsequent chart-topping songs
until she wrote her first solo song, ‘‘Baby
Sittin,’’ in 1967. She made her breakthrough
as a musical artist in her own right when she
released her album Tapestry in 1971, which
stayed on the charts for over six years and
was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in
1998.
To date, King has composed more than 100
hit singles and amassed numerous prestigious
musical awards, including four Grammy
Awards. She was the first woman to receive
the Library of Congress Gershwin Prize for
Popular Song, which she was honored with in
2013. She has also been inducted into the
Songwriters Hall of Fame as well as the Rock
and Roll Hall of Fame and was a Kennedy
Center Honoree in 2015.
In addition to her prolific musical career,
King has also dedicated her exceptional abili-
ties towards environmental activism and en-
suring the conservation of American wildlife,
parks, and wild places. King is a long-time
resident of Idaho and began working with the
Alliance for the Wild Rockies in 1990, testi-
fying on Capitol Hill against legislation that
would harm Idahoan natural spaces. She has
also been a stalwart and outspoken advocate
of the Northern Rockies Ecosystem Protection
Act (NREPA), a bill I have introduced in every
Congress since the 103rd Congress. King tes-
tified in favor of NREPA in 2009 before the
House Natural Resources Subcommittee on
National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in celebrating the extraordinary contribu-
tions of Carole King, whose environmentalism
and musical talents have bettered New York
and our nation and inspired a Broadway musi-
cal.
f
IN HONOR OF GEORGIA STATE
REPRESENTATIVE ROBERT
‘‘BOB’’ PAUL HANNER, SR.
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, it
is with a heavy heart and solemn remem-
brance that I rise today to pay tribute to a re-
markable statesman, public servant, Georgia
State Representative, and friend of long-
standing—Mr. Robert ‘‘Bob’’ Paul Hanner, Sr.
Sadly, Representative Hanner passed away
on Wednesday, January 2, 2019. His passing
marks the close of a long and prolific life, and
his departure leaves a void in the hearts of
many Georgians. A funeral service for Rep-
resentative Hanner was held on Saturday,
January 5, 2019, at First Baptist Church of
Dawson in Dawson, Georgia.
Robert Paul Hanner, Sr. was born in Amer-
icus, Georgia on April 19, 1945, to the union
of the late Jack and Yip Hanner. A product of
Georgia’s educational systems, he attended
Parrott Grammar School and Terrell High
School before graduating from both Gordon
Military College in Barnesville and Georgia
Southwestern State University in Americus. He
served his country honorably in the U.S. Coast
Guard in Vietnam from 1967 to 1968.
In 1975, Bob was elected to the Georgia
General Assembly, where he served until
2013, and represented House District 148,
which included portions of Chattahoochee,
Quitman, Lee, Terrell, Webster, and Stewart
counties. During his 38 year tenure, he served
as a member of the House Appropriations
Committee, Rules Committee, Natural Re-
sources and Environment Committee, Public
Safety and Homeland Security Committee,
Chairman of the Reapportionment Committee,
and Chairman of the Game, and Fish and
Parks Committee. He also served as Co-Chair
of the State-wide Water Management Com-
mission. Bob served as Co-Chair of the Joint
Blue Ribbon Study Commission on State Gov-
ernment Decentralization and the Joint Com-
prehensive Water Study Committee. He also
worked with the Agriculture Water branch of
the Georgia Environmental Protection Division.
His contribution to agriculture and the envi-
ronment is memorialized in the Hooks-Hanner
Environmental Resource Center which was
established through the legislative efforts of
Bob and his longtime Southwest Georgia leg-
islative partner, State Senator George Hooks.
The name of the Center honors their legacy of
service to Georgia agriculture and the environ-
ment.
Bob’s community involvement included
membership in the Dawson Lion’s Club, the
P.T. Schley Lodge No. 229, the Terrell County
Chamber of Commerce, as well as Vice Presi-
dent of both the Georgia and local chapters of
Jaycees.
Bob accomplished much throughout his life,
but none of this would have been possible
without his enduring faith in God and the love
and support of his wife, Linda; his three sons,
Robert Jr., Jeff, and Matt; and his two
grandsons.
On a personal note, Bob and I served under
him in the State House together and I was
blessed with his friendship, counsel, and sup-
port over the years. His help with my initial
campaign and subsequent reelection cam-
paigns for Congress were pivotal. Bob was
truly a great representative for Southwest
Georgia and a stellar example of how a public
servant should serve his constituents. His
leadership will be sorely missed.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
my wife, Vivian, and me, along with the more
than 730,000 residents of Georgia’s Second
Congressional District, in paying tribute to
State Representative Robert ‘‘Bob’’ Paul
Hanner, Sr. for his remarkable leadership in
our great State of Georgia and in extending
our deepest sympathies to his family, friends
and, loved ones during this difficult time of be-
reavement. Moreover, we pray that they will
be consoled and comforted by an abiding faith
and the Holy Spirit in the days, weeks, and
months ahead.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF MS. TONI
WASHINGTON
HON. JOHN LEWIS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. LEWIS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
join my constituents and the African American
Fire Fighters Historical Society in recognizing
the tenth anniversary of Ms. Toni Washing-
ton’s appointment as the fire chief of Decatur,
Georgia.
On January 6, 2009, Chief Washington be-
came the first African-American and the first
woman to serve as the City of Decatur’s fire
chief and emergency manager. As the fourth
of six African-American women appointed as
fire chief in the United States, Chief Wash-
ington is the only African-American woman
who is actively leading a fire department.
Chief Washington began her public safety
career at the Georgia State Fire Marshal’s Of-
fice and continued her career at a Metro At-
lanta fire department where she was promoted
up to the rank of Deputy Fire Chief. Prior to
her career in public safety, Ms. Washington
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08JA8.009 E08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E17
January 8, 2019
worked on Turner Home Entertainment’s mar-
keting and public relations team, on actress
Jane Fonda’s staff, and with the Cobb Micro-
enterprise Council.
Chief Washington earned an undergraduate
degree in business administration with an em-
phasis on marketing and management from
Savannah State University and continued her
studies at National Louis University, where
she earned a master’s of science degree in
managerial leadership. She maintains a com-
mitment to professional development exempli-
fied by her attendance of the Dr. Carl Holmes
Executive Development Institute at Dillard Uni-
versity and the National Fire Academy, and
her Chief Fire Officer designation from the
Center for Public Safety Excellence.
In her limited spare time, Chief Washington
is also active in numerous professional asso-
ciations and community organizationi She is a
proud member of the Metro Atlanta Fire Chiefs
Association, International Association of Black
Professional Fire Fighters, the Black Chief Of-
ficers Committee, the International Association
of Fire Chiefs, the Georgia State Firefighters
Association, and Delta Sigma Theta Sorority,
Inc. Ms. Washington also chairs the Georgia
Firefighters Bum Foundation’s board of direc-
tors, is a trustee of the iWomen board, and
volunteers with the Decatur Career Academy
Advisory’s council and various mentoring pro-
grams.
In closing, Madam Speaker, I would also
like to extend my warmest greetings and con-
gratulations to Chief Washington’s loving fam-
ily—her husband Gregory; daughters—Tahj,
Lark, and Lauryn; son-in-laws—Lyndon and
Mark; and her grandsons—Little Lyndon and
Logan. I commend Chief Washington on her
10th anniversary and thank her for serving the
City of Decatur and contributing to the safety
and well-being of our region and nation.
f
BIRTHDAY WISHES TO PETTIS
NORMAN
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate the birthday of a dear
friend and a true East Texas treasure, Pettis
Norman.
Pettis Norman, once known as one of the
premier athletes in the National Football
League and a long-time Dallas Cowboy, is
recognized as a successful businessman with
a keen sense of civic responsibility and
boundless energy. With more than forty years
of business experience, this former Cowboys
star has achieved record success on and off
the field. Norman was active in changing the
segregationist climate within the Cowboys and
later the city of Dallas, helping organized
marches during the civil rights movement influ-
encing the changing of the team’s roommate
assignments and breaking social barriers.
During his collegiate and professional ca-
reers, Pettis was a stellar athlete. He was
voted a First Team, Currier All-American in
1962, while attending Johnson C. Smith Uni-
versity as a physical education student. Upon
graduating, Pettis joined the National Football
League and won three championships as a
starting tight end for the Dallas Cowboys and
San Diego Chargers over nine seasons.
In addition to his professional sports en-
deavors, Pettis pursued a career in banking
with South Oak Cliff State Bank in Dallas.
Pettis was initially hired to work in Public Rela-
tions, but quickly rose to the position of Assist-
ant Vice President in Business Development.
Shortly thereafter, he was promoted to Vice
President, becoming the first-ever African-
American Banking Officer in the region.
Pettis furthered his business interests by
also venturing into real estate and restaurant
franchising over the course of three decades.
To date, Pettis has created four companies
under the umbrella known as PNI Industries.
He also created The Dallas Together Forum,
consisting of approximately 20 CEOs from
Fortune 500 companies, to address the press-
ing issues of minorities and female participa-
tion in the ‘‘bounties of our nation’’. The Dallas
Together Forum became a successful model
that had been replicated across the nation.
Pettis Norman is well-regarded and is highly
respected within the Dallas community. I
would like to recognize him on his birthday,
and I thank him for his leadership to this com-
munity and to the city of Dallas, Texas.
f
HONORING FLORIDA REPRESENTA-
TIVE RICHARD STARK AS THE
ELECTED OFFICIAL OF THE
YEAR BY THE JEWISH FEDERA-
TION OF BROWARD COUNTY
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize State Representative Richard Stark
of Weston, Florida, a dedicated public servant
and my good friend and who will be honored
as the Elected Official of the Year by the Jew-
ish Federation of Broward County.
Richard attended New York public schools
before receiving his Bachelor of Arts degree
from the University of Denver. He then moved
to South Florida to join his family’s furniture
business. In 1990, he became an independent
insurance agent, and today, operates a thriv-
ing independent agency specializing in life,
health and insurance plans for seniors.
After holding leadership positions with Tem-
ple B’Nai Aviv, Rotary Club of Weston, and
the American Youth Soccer Organization,
Richard was elected to the Florida House of
Representatives in 2012. Soon after, he was
elected Chair of the Florida Jewish Legislative
Caucus. Under his leadership, the Caucus has
been instrumental in promoting legislation to
combat the Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions
(BDS) movement, securing funding for human
services needs in the Jewish community, and
ensuring the security of Jewish Day Schools
throughout our state. As a State Representa-
tive, he works closely with rabbis, Jewish com-
munity leaders, and Hillels at Florida State
University to engage students in the policy
process and grow the next generation of Jew-
ish leaders.
Richard currently Chairs the Broward Coun-
ty Legislative Delegation, serves as Deputy
Leader of the House Democratic Caucus, and
serves on the House Appropriations Com-
mittee, Commerce Committee, Justice Appro-
priations Subcommittee and Health Quality
Subcommittee.
He has been married to his wife, Debbi, for
over 30 years and his children, Lindsey and
Jason, attended and graduated from Broward
County public schools.
Madam Speaker, this award is a true testa-
ment to Representative Richard Stark’s ongo-
ing commitment to his community. I want to
extend my warmest congratulations to him on
receiving the Elected Official of the Year
Award from the Jewish Federation of Broward
County, and send along my best wishes on
such a momentous occasion.
f
IN HONOR OF RENE DROUIN, IM-
MEDIATE PAST PRESIDENT AND
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER,
NHHEAF NETWORK ORGANIZA-
TIONS
HON. ANN M. KUSTER
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor my good friend
Rene Drouin on his upcoming retirement from
the New Hampshire Higher Education Assist-
ance Foundation (NHHEAF) Network Organi-
zations after more than 40 years of service.
In addition to his work at the NHHEAF Net-
work Organizations, Mr. Drouin has served as
Chair of the Program Operations Committee of
the National Council of Higher Education Loan
Programs, as well as the distinction of being
designated with a Congressional appointment
to the U.S. Department of Education’s Advi-
sory Committee on Student Financial Assist-
ance.
Through Rene’s leadership, the Organiza-
tions employ nearly 200 people, with more
than 800,000 student loan borrowers serviced
as part of NHHEAF’s Federal Direct Loan
Servicing Contract, as well as servicing 40,000
Federal Family Education Loan and private
loan borrowers, including many Granite State
students and families. Rene has ensured the
Organizations continue to have a lasting eco-
nomic impact in our state and local commu-
nities, including generous charitable spending
for financial literacy and college planning.
On behalf of my constituents in New Hamp-
shire’s Second Congressional District, I thank
Rene for his commitment to championing col-
lege access and affordability in his 40 years of
service at the NHHEAF Network Organiza-
tions. His efforts will continue to benefit our
state for years to come. I am honored to rec-
ognize and congratulate Rene and wish him
the very best of luck in the years ahead.
f
HONORING MR. PETER ARRIGONI
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in memory of Peter Arrigoni, who
passed away on December 18, 2018, at the
age of 87 after a lifetime of public service to
his community.
Born in 1931 in San Francisco, Mr. Arrigoni
later settled in Fairfax, where his extended
family had lived for more than 100 years. He
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08JA8.012 E08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E18 January 8, 2019
graduated from St. Ignatius High School as an
all-city athlete and attended the College of
Marin where he was an all-conference half-
back on the football team. After serving in the
U.S. Coast Guard, where he attained the rank
of second class petty officer while serving in
the Korean War, Mr. Arrigoni finished his col-
lege education at the University of Arizona. He
was an honor roll student and was once again
named all-conference for football. After grad-
uating with a degree in business and econom-
ics, Mr. Arrigoni started working as a stock-
broker. During this time, he became involved
in many volunteer activities. He was a little
league coach, joined the Fairfax Park and
Recreation Commission, and served on the
Fairfax School District’s site selection com-
mittee.
As his passion for public service grew, Mr.
Arrigoni ran for public office, and he was elect-
ed to the Fairfax City Council in 1964. He
went on to serve as Mayor in 1966, and then
decided to run for Supervisor in 1968. He won
that election and many more to keep his seat
on the board of supervisors until he retired in
1976. During his tenure as Supervisor, Mr.
Arrigoni led the way for historic planning poli-
cies that have protected West Marin’s ranch-
land for decades. He was also a member of
many community organizations such as the
Golden Gate Bridge board, the county pension
board, the Bay Area Pollution Control Board
and the Association of Bay Area Govern-
ments. More recently, Mr. Arrigoni was hon-
ored by the Marin County Free Library for his
dedicated leadership when the library’s com-
munity room was named for him. Mr. Arrigoni
also enjoyed membership with the St. Rita’s
Church Men’s Club and Fairfax Parlor No.
307.
Mr. Arrigoni was known to many in Marin
County as a pioneer in helping to restructure
local government and leadership to make the
governing process more efficient and open to
the public. He as been aptly described by
many as being largely responsible for saving
the true character and nature of Marin County
by fighting against major wholesale develop-
ments and to protect open space preserves
and canyons, which still exist today thanks in
large part to his tireless work.
On a personal note, I met Mr. Arrigoni in
1994 when I first ran for public office, a seat
on the Marin Municipal Water District
(MMWD). He was a strong environmentalist,
and he was running the Marin Builders Ex-
change at that time. We came from different
generations and political parties, but we be-
came good friends. I will remember with fond-
ness the tours he led for me of remote parts
of the MMWD watershed where he used to go
fishing and deer hunting as a kid. I could al-
ways count on him for a good joke, or an old
political war story, or just some good cheer.
Mr. Arrigoni is survived by his loving wife
Pat, his sons James and Robert, his brother
Robert, and one grandchild. While he will be
greatly missed, Mr. Arrigoni’s legacy will live
on through the indelible positive impact he had
on his community and beyond.
CELEBRATING FORREST FLYNN’S
100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Forrest Flynn as he cele-
brates his 100th birthday.
Forrest was born on January 23, 1919, in
South Bend, Indiana, as the youngest of four
children. He attended a one-room school-
house in Middlebury, the town where he has
spent the majority of his life. Growing up in
northern Indiana taught Forrest how to work
hard, be kind to others, and live a meaningful
life.
When America entered World War II in
1941, Forrest answered his nation’s call to
serve and joined the U.S. Army, where he
served for three years. At the front, he was a
tank retriever for the 7th Army Division, 23rd
Company, ferrying tanks in need of mainte-
nance out of enemy fire and into the hands of
the Army mechanics. His strength, bravery,
and love of country were as steadfast then as
they are now.
After returning to civilian life, Forrest re-
mained active in his community. He filled
many roles around town, from his job gath-
ering eggs to his work helping build the Mack-
inac Bridge. He is known by all as a man of
great integrity, and he embodies the values of
the Hoosier work ethic. And while his life is
filled with inspirational moments, those lucky
enough to know him well are also blessed with
his bright and cheerful spirit that touches your
heart and puts a smile on your face.
Madam Speaker, Forrest Flynn sets a
strong example, not only as a Hoosier and an
American but also as a friend, neighbor, and
family man. On behalf of 2nd District Hoosiers,
I offer Forrest my hearty congratulations on
this incredible milestone, I thank him for his
service to our country, and I wish him many
more years of continued health and happi-
ness.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE RETIRE-
MENT OF THE HONORABLE
JUDGE WILLIAM C. RANDALL
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, it
is my honor and pleasure to extend my per-
sonal congratulations and best wishes to a
dear friend of longstanding and servant of hu-
mankind, The Honorable Judge William C.
Randall, Chief Judge of the Civil and Mag-
istrate Courts of Macon-Bibb County, Georgia.
Judge Randall was honored in a retirement
ceremony on Friday, January 4, 2019, at 5:00
pm at the Terminal Station in Macon, Georgia.
Judge Randall was born on October 14,
1943, in Macon, Georgia to the union of the
late William P. and Lillian Randall. He is a
product of the Bibb County Public School Sys-
tem, where he attended L.H. Williams Elemen-
tary School and Peter G. Appling High School.
He went on to receive his Bachelor of Arts de-
gree from Morgan State University and his
Juris Doctorate degree from Emory University
School of Law. Following his graduation from
law school, Judge Randall was an Earl War-
ren fellow with the NACCP Legal Defense
Fund, Inc. in New York City. After which, he
returned to his hometown of Macon and es-
tablished a very successful law practice.
In 1974, Judge Randall was elected from
Bibb County to the Georgia House of Rep-
resentatives, where he served until 1999. Dur-
ing his 24 years of service in the Georgia
General Assembly, he served on several com-
mittees, but most notably rose to become
Chairman of the House Special Judiciary
Committee.
He received several awards including the
Outstanding Legislative Award by the Con-
cerned Citizens League of Macon; the Out-
standing Legislative Award from the Afro-
American Law Enforcement League of Macon;
the Outstanding Legislative Award from the
Bibb Association of Educators; the Legislator
of the Year Award by the Georgia Association
for the Prevention and Treatment of Sub-
stance Abuse; and the Lifetime Achievement
Award by the Georgia Legislative Black Cau-
cus, Inc.
In 1999, he was appointed by Georgia Gov-
ernor Roy Barnes to be Chief Judge of the
Civil and Magistrate Courts of Bibb County.
In addition to Judge Randall’s legislative
service, he is also a member of the Macon
Bar Association; the State Bar of Georgia; The
National Bar Association; the American Bar
Association; the American Judicial Associa-
tion; and the Executive Committee of the Mag-
istrate Judges Council. Judge Randall is also
a member of the Prince Hall Masons; the Elks;
and the National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People (NAACP).
After his retirement, Judge Randall is plan-
ning to spend quality time with his wife,
Lauretta; his five children; and his 11 grand-
children. He has accomplished much in his
life, but none of it would have been possible
without the love and support of the family he
cherishes so dearly.
On a personal note, I would like to thank
Judge Randall for his friendship, advice, coun-
sel, and support over the years. We were
schoolmates at Emory Law School, shared the
Earl Warren Legal Fellowship experience to-
gether and as a young lawyer, he assisted me
by allowing me to work out of his Macon office
when I had cases and trials in Bibb County
Superior Court and the U.S. District Court for
the Middle District of Georgia. I served under
him in the Georgia House when he chaired
the House Special Judiciary Committee. When
I ran for Congress, his early support was piv-
otal in my gaining nomination and election as
Congressman from the Second Congressional
District. He and his family provided countless
Sunday dinners during my weekend visits to
Bibb County.
A true Georgian devoted to serving his great
state, Judge Randall embodies Georgia’s state
motto, ‘‘Wisdom, Justice, and Moderation.’’
Judge Randall is a man of great integrity who
sets a high standard for himself and for oth-
ers.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
my wife, Vivian, and me, along with the more
than 730,000 constituents of Georgia’s Sec-
ond Congressional District in extending our
sincerest appreciation and best wishes to The
Honorable Judge William C. Randall upon the
occasion of his retirement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A08JA8.016 E08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E19
January 8, 2019
HONORING MR. CLIFTON JAMES
COWARD, JR.
HON. WALTER B. JONES
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. JONES. Madam Speaker, the Vietnam
War is widely regarded as one of the most
brutal conflicts our young service members
have faced to this day. With such brutal condi-
tions abroad and dwindling support within the
United States, the Vietnam War left an indel-
ible mark on our nation, and most importantly,
on the people who served. One man to experi-
ence these effects was Mr. Clifton James
Coward, Jr., of Washington, North Carolina. I
rise today to honor him.
Known as C.J. to his friends, Clifton was a
happy and outgoing person when he was
younger. Unfortunately, by the time he re-
turned home following his tour in Vietnam, his
world was flipped upside down.
C.J. served in the military from 1967 to
1970, completing one tour in Vietnam. As a
Specialist 4th Class in the U.S. Army, he was
a part of a New Equipment Training (NET)
team and was the operator/gunny attached to
a Sheridan M551 tank. One of the hardships
the group faced while fighting was that they
traveled so quickly throughout the country.
Letters that their loved ones sent often
wouldn’t arrive until after they had moved on
to a new location.
Unfortunately, by the time his tour was over
and C.J. was discharged, he had developed
anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder.
This greatly exacerbated other health prob-
lems, which arose later in his life. Having mar-
ried Lola Woolard after returning to the states,
C.J. dealt with emphysema and episodes of
anxiety that led to his wife driving him around
into the early hours of the morning to help
calm him down. Even throughout the hard-
ships, the couple was happily married for 48
years. The two of them have lived in my dis-
trict for 45 of those 48 years. C.J. was a proud
father to Lynn and Kylie Coward Carter and a
grandfather to Lucas and Lily Carter. After his
service, he continued supporting his family by
preparing bread trays, that way he could avoid
the stress of your typical 9 to 5 job and he
was able to work at his own pace.
The effects of Vietnam are still felt by many,
just like Clifton. Despite never returning to the
same happy, outgoing young man he once
was, he always tried to keep a smile on his
face and was a dear friend who will be missed
by many. May God continue to uplift his fam-
ily.
f
IN MEMORY OF MR. FRANKLIN
DEAN SMITH
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in solemn remembrance of the life of
Mr. Franklin Dean ‘‘Frank’’ Smith, who passed
away Wednesday, April 11, 2018. Frank was
a lifelong patriot who bravely and proudly
served our great Nation as a member of the
United States Navy. Not only did he love our
country, he was a lover of God, his family, and
his community, and he worked his entire life to
give back to that which he loved.
Before his service, Frank was born and
raised in Cherokee, Iowa. He made his way to
the East Coast when he received an appoint-
ment to the U.S. Naval Academy. Following
his graduation in 1956, he attended the Navy
Supply Corps School in Athens, Georgia be-
fore serving on the destroyer USS Hunt, as
well as in Vietnam during the Vietnam War.
Frank later returned to his alma mater to
spend two tours teaching math to the next
generation of naval officers. He served at the
Atomic Energy Commission under Admiral
Hyman Rickover, the ‘‘father of the nuclear
Navy’’ at Westinghouse’s Bettis Atomic Power
Laboratory; as the supply officer on the USS
Maury; and as well as at the U.S. Naval Sup-
ply Center. His last official duty was with the
Office of the Secretary of Defense at the Pen-
tagon.
Frank led an accomplished life, also receiv-
ing his Master’s Degree from Harvard Busi-
ness School and serving as a long-time mem-
ber, and even President, of the Fairfax Hunt
Club. Additionally, Frank was a founding mem-
ber of the ‘‘Morattico Waterfront Museum,’’
which is the cultural center of activity in
Morattico, the small town where he lived dur-
ing the latter years of his life.
Frank is survived by his wife, Carol; chil-
dren, Scott, Elizabeth, and Alex; stepchildren,
Edward, Genie, Vicky, and James; as well as
his sixteen grandchildren. His dedication to
our Nation and his local community was sec-
ond to none, and he will be greatly missed by
all who had the pleasure of knowing him.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
honoring and recognizing Mr. Franklin Dean
Smith for his life of service to our Common-
wealth, Nation, and the United States Navy.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF TYLER TRENT, A PURDUE
BOILERMAKER
HON. SUSAN W. BROOKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the life and legacy of
Tyler Trent, a twenty-year-old Purdue Univer-
sity student journalist and super fan who de-
voted his all too short life to inspiring and
helping others. He recently lost his battle with
cancer as 2019 began. Tyler Trent is now a
name known in households across the nation
for his love of Purdue football and his inspiring
passion and energy as a fan. The people of
Indiana’s Fifth Congressional District are for-
ever grateful for Tyler’s significant impact on
Purdue University, the State of Indiana, and
our nation.
Tyler was a life-long Hoosier, a native of
Carmel, Indiana and son of Tony and Kelly
Trent. The oldest of three brothers, he was al-
ways described as a special kid who ‘‘stood
out’’ his entire life. This maturity would follow
Tyler throughout his life as he faced three
consecutive battles with osteosarcoma or
bone cancer, starting at the age of 15. Deter-
mined not to let cancer impede his dreams of
attending Purdue University, Tyler graduated
from high school and scored in the 1500s on
the SAT. His hard work and dedication to suc-
cess earned him the Presidential Scholarship
to Purdue in early 2017. This scholarship is
awarded to individuals with high academic
achievement, leadership, and service in their
school or community. Determined to not let
cancer dictate his life, Tyler began college at
Purdue University in the fall of 2017. Unwaver-
ing in his dream to be a Boilermaker and be-
come a national sports writer, Tyler attended
class during the week and returned home on
the weekends for cancer treatment at Riley
Hospital for Children.
His remarkable spirit was evidenced by his
unwillingness to let cancer impede his passion
for Boilermaker football, attending Purdue foot-
ball games and cheering on his favorite team
whenever possible. His passion was quickly
recognized by Coach Jeff Brohm, who ad-
mired his fight and inability to quit. When
asked about his future, Tyler stated, ‘‘The im-
mediate future in my mind . . . Purdue beats
number two-ranked Ohio State.’’ And they did.
He also earned the position of honorary team
captain. The team often credited Tyler for their
wins, particularly the Old Oaken Bucket game.
Ever committed to his Boilermakers, he at-
tended his last game while in hospice care.
Beyond Tyler’s love of sports was a love of
doing good. Even as he battled osteosarcoma,
Tyler thought of others, forming an organiza-
tion called Teens With a Cause where he
raised over $100,000 for pediatric cancer re-
search. The organization recruited kids to do
service projects for families affected by can-
cer, such as raking leaves, shoveling snow
and running errands. Tyler also volunteered
with the Purdue Dance Marathon, which raises
money for Riley Hospital for Children and the
Purdue Center for Cancer Research. Com-
mitted to advancing research and curing his
cancer, Tyler donated the tissue from his
tumor for research, one of the first
osteosarcoma patients at Riley to do so.
When speaking about tissue donation, Tyler
said ‘‘I feel like I’m getting to view my legacy
come to life. I’m incredibly thankful that I’m
getting to see the impact tissue donation is
having. Most people don’t get to live long
enough to see their impact but I’m getting
blessed with that.’’
A true testament to his outstanding char-
acter, Tyler was the subject of ESPN features
and received the Sagamore of the Wabash,
the highest Hoosier honor bestowed by Gov-
ernor Holcomb. In December 2018, he was
the recipient of Disney’s Wide World of Sports
Spirit Award, given annually to college foot-
ball’s most inspirational individual or team.
When Tyler received that award, he said, ‘‘At
the end of the day, there’s always a light at
the end of the tunnel and as long as you rely
on your faith, things will work out.’’ Finally,
Tyler wrote an autobiography entitled The
Upset: Life, Sports, Death, and the Legacy in
Between, The ‘TYLER STRONG’ Story, with a
portion of every purchase being donated to
cancer research in Trent’s name.
It is with that optimistic and positive outlook
on life that Tyler was able to inspire the na-
tion. He has united Americans far and wide to
be Boilermakers. Tyler will be forever missed
by his family, friends, colleagues, and the en-
tire Purdue community. I hope we can all live
every day as he did: #Tyler Strong. On behalf
of Indiana’s Fifth Congressional District, I ex-
tend my deepest condolences to Tyler’s par-
ents, Tony and Kelly Trent, his two brothers,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08JA8.019 E08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E20 January 8, 2019
Ethan and Blake, and his extended family and
friends who mourn his loss. Tyler’s inex-
plicable ability to find good in every situation
will continue to inspire the State of Indiana
and our nation, now and in the future.
f
HONORING RUTHANN GEIB ON HER
RETIREMENT FROM THE AMER-
ICAN SUGARBEET GROWERS AS-
SOCIATION
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Ruthann Geib, a great friend,
who is retiring after 36 years of working with
the American Sugarbeet Growers Association
and the sugarbeet and sugar cane commu-
nities.
Originally from Wooster, Ohio, her grand-
parents had a dairy and feed grains farm
nearby where she learned about the care and
feeding of animals and the joys of grain har-
vest.
After earning her Bachelor’s Degree in Soci-
ology with Minors in Psychology and Political
Science from Malone University, Ruthann was
accepted into a three-month internship pro-
gram in Washington, D.C. She worked at an
international development organization and
was later hired to be the diplomatic liaison
with embassies for the more than 20 countries
where the organization had development and
linguistic projects.
Following her internship and after a brief
stint at a law firm, she joined the American
Sugarbeet Growers Association (ASGA) in
1982. Ruthann quickly moved through the
ranks, becoming Vice President of the asso-
ciation a few years later. Her portfolio included
federal legislation, regulatory and administra-
tive issues, Board education and communica-
tions, and management of the annual grower
fly-ins. Her years with ASGA covered 19 Con-
gresses, seven farm bills, and multiple free-
trade agreements. In 2016, after over 30 years
of service, the ASGA presented Ruthann with
a Distinguished Service Award.
Her most memorable experiences include
visiting the farms and communities in sugar-
beet and sugar cane areas, and visiting Cuba
in 1999 as a member of the U.S. sugar indus-
try delegation to a United Nations sugar meet-
ing.
Ruthann and her husband, Paul, currently
live in Alexandria, Virginia, but are looking for-
ward to moving to the mountains of Ten-
nessee in 2019. In her retirement, she plans
to travel and volunteer with various projects in
her new community.
Madam Speaker, Ruthann’s impact on the
sugarbeet and sugar cane communities is a
true testament to her longstanding commit-
ment to the industry. I wish her well as she
embarks on the next chapter of her life in the
beautiful mountains of Tennessee.
IN HONOR OF CENTRAL-PHENIX
CITY WINNING THE AHSAA
CLASS 7A FOOTBALL CHAMPION-
SHIP
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize the Central-Phenix City
High School football team for winning the Ala-
bama High School Athletic Association
(AHSAA) Class 7A football championship.
The Red Devils defeated Thompson 52–7 in
the championship game in December played
at Jordan-Hare Stadium at Auburn University.
The Red Devils had a perfect season going
14–0 under Coach Jamey DuBose.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating the students and faculty of Central
High School, the coaches, the players and all
the Red Devil fans on this exciting achieve-
ment. Go Red Devils.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 100TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF HARRY GRODSKY
& CO., INC.
HON. RICHARD E. NEAL
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I would like to
take this opportunity to recognize and con-
gratulate Harry Grodsky & Co., Inc. on the oc-
casion of its 100th anniversary. Established in
1918, Harry Grodsky & Co., Inc. is one of the
largest and most experienced mechanical con-
tractors in America. For four generations, the
family-owned firm has remained focused on
solving complex problems, and has built a ro-
bust reputation based on exemplary profes-
sionalism and customer care.
For 100 years, Grodsky has prioritized fam-
ily and safety in every aspect of its work. The
group has continued to build strong relation-
ships with repeat customers, suppliers, and
subcontractors on the way to becoming an in-
tegral part of the economy of western Massa-
chusetts and beyond. Across the board,
Grodsky has proven its commitment to quality
and integrity with every project. The firm has
played an active role throughout New England
over the years and the communities of the re-
gion have undoubtedly benefitted from major
projects carried out by Grodsky, including
those at top hospitals, universities, and large
financial and manufacturing facilities.
Once again Madam Speaker, over the
course of its history, Harry Grodsky & Co., Inc.
has demonstrated outstanding leadership,
dedication, and integrity. Those traits are hall-
marks of the group’s long and admirable tradi-
tion of service in western Massachusetts and
beyond, and are certainly worthy of recogni-
tion. On the occasion of Harry Grodsky & Co.,
Inc.’s 100th anniversary, I wish the Grodsky
family and the dedicated individuals who work
with them, all the best and much continued
prosperity.
INTRODUCTION OF LEGISLATION
TO DIRECT THE SECRETARY OF
THE INTERIOR TO CONVEY CER-
TAIN FACILITIES, EASEMENTS,
AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY TO THE
KENNEWICK IRRIGATION DIS-
TRICT, AND FOR OTHER PUR-
POSES
HON. DAN NEWHOUSE
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to reintroduce legislation authorizing the
Secretary of the Interior to transfer title of cer-
tain Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) works to
the Kennewick Irrigation District (KID) in Cen-
tral Washington.
The legislation will transfer title of BOR
works beginning at KID’s headgate extending
40 miles east. The transfer includes the con-
veyance of land and project facilities and must
be completed no later than two years after its
enactment. This title transfer will allow KID to
manage water supplies more efficiently, while
also reducing federal liabilities and providing a
cost savings benefit to the federal govern-
ment.
KID was initially built to serve the agricul-
tural community in the Tri-Cities area. Today,
the majority of ratepayers live in residential
developments, and the change from farmland
to urbanization is expected to continue into the
foreseeable future.
Madam Speaker, in the last Congress the
House overwhelmingly supported this legisla-
tion. Unfortunately, the Senate was unable to
bring the bill up for consideration before final
adjournment, so that is why I am reintroducing
this legislation to attain swift action and con-
sideration by our Senate colleagues to get this
to the President’s desk.
I hope that we can move this legislation
soon to ensure there will be a safe, reliable,
and efficient water supply for the next genera-
tion in Central Washington.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE LOW-WAGE
FEDERAL CONTRACTOR EM-
PLOYEE BACK PAY ACT
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the Low-Wage Federal Contractor
Employee Back Pay Act to grant back pay to
federally contracted retail, food, custodial and
security service workers who are furloughed
during the current and any other federal gov-
ernment shutdown this fiscal year (fiscal year
2019). This bill applies to all three branches of
the federal government. After government
shutdowns, federal workers have received
back pay, but not federal contract workers,
who often perform the same jobs as civil serv-
ants. While I believe that all federal employees
and federal contract workers should receive
back pay after a shutdown, we know that we
cannot get Congress to make whole all who
are hurt by a shutdown. Therefore, my bill fo-
cuses specifically on low-wage federal con-
tract workers, some of whom work here on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08JA8.021 E08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E21
January 8, 2019
Capitol Grounds providing Members of Con-
gress and congressional staff with daily serv-
ices, because these are the workers most like-
ly to be irretrievably hurt by lost wages during
a shutdown.
Many federal contract workers earn little
more than the minimum wage and receive
few, if any, benefits. While some are unionized
with a little better wage, all are the lowest-paid
workers in the federal government and should
not be penalized because Congress has failed
to do its job to keep the government func-
tioning. Congress, historically, has provided
back pay to federal employees furloughed dur-
ing government shutdowns, who often work in
the same buildings as these low-wage con-
tract workers, but not to low-wage contract
workers. However, both groups of workers de-
serve to be made whole after shutdowns. I
recognize, of course, that contract workers are
employees of contractors, but the distinction
between federal workers and, at least, the
lowest-paid contract workers, who, for exam-
ple, keep buildings clean, fails when it comes
to a deliberate government shutdown. Unlike
many other contractors, those who employ
low-wage service workers have little latitude to
help make up for lost wages. Low-wage, fed-
erally contracted service workers can least af-
ford the loss of pay during a shutdown and
should not have to go without back pay while
everyone else in their federal buildings re-
ceives back pay.
The nation’s capital is the high-profile home
of the federal government’s complicity with
contractors who pay low wages through
leases and contracts with federal agencies. At
least this legislation would provide some parity
to their low-wage federal contract workers.
I strongly urge my colleagues to support the
legislation.
f
RECOGNIZING THE JOLIET CATHO-
LIC ACADEMY FOOTBALL TEAM
FOR THEIR STATE CHAMPION-
SHIP WIN
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the Joliet Catholic Academy
Hilltoppers football team on winning the IHSA
Class 5A State Championship. On November
24th, JCA captured their 14th state champion-
ship with a victory over Montini Catholic High
School at Memorial Stadium in Champaign. I
want to congratulate all of the players, coach-
es, trainers, and parents, and commend them
on their hard work and on the dedication they
have shown to their team, their school, and
their community. I also want to congratulate
Coach Jake Jaworski for his first champion-
ship and the principal of Joliet Catholic Acad-
emy, Dr. Jeffrey Budz, for helping lead these
young men to victory.
In the championship game, Nick Iannantone
had 40 carries for 318 yards and 3 touch-
downs, with offensive linemen Colin Cox,
Dave Monnot, Ryan Laule, Ty O’Janovac, and
Connor Kovas clearing the way for the team to
gain a total of 461 yards on 66 carries. This
prolific offense came despite losing one of
their key players, senior running back Keenan
Hailey, due to an injury early in the game.
With the help of a defense that only allowed
one touchdown in the second half, this amaz-
ing team fought back from the 21–7 deficit to
win 35–27—bringing home the state cham-
pionship.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing the Joliet Catholic Academy
Hilltoppers football team and to congratulate
them on their IHSA Class 5A State Champion-
ship. I wish each player continued success as
he moves forward.
f
IN MEMORY OF T. MOFFATT
BURRISS, SR.
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, beginning with Gov. Henry McMaster
lowering flags across South Carolina, tributes
are being made to honor the memory of T.
Moffatt Burriss, Sr., who is an American War
Hero, business leader, pioneer of the modern
Republican Party, and devoted Family Man. I
include in the RECORD the obituary from The
State on January 6, 2019:
THOMAS BURRISS SR.
CHAPIN SC.—Thomas Moffatt Burriss, Sr.
passed away on January 4, 2019 at the age of
99. He was born in Anderson, SC, on Sept. 22,
1919, to Frank Judson Burriss and Frances
Moffatt. He had two siblings, Frank J.
Burriss, and Jean Burriss Wattley, both now
deceased.
Upon graduating from Clemson College in
1941, he moved to Orangeburg and taught
physics and science at Orangeburg High,
where he met his future wife, Louisa Righton
Hay, of Morristown, Tennessee.
When the war broke out on December 7,
1941, Moffatt was called into the service at
Fort Benning, Georgia, where he volunteered
for paratrooper training school. While on a
two week leave, he and Louisa were married
on June 22, 1942, in Morristown, IN., by
Louisa’s father, a Presbyterian minister. In
May, 1943, Moffatt’s unit was ordered to
North Africa to prepare for the invasion of
Europe and would not see his wife again for
two and a half years. Moffatt was involved in
almost every major World War II European
battle including Sicily, Italy, Holland, and
Belgium.
In Operation Market Garden in the Nether-
lands, Burriss’s company was the lead com-
pany in the famous Waal River Crossing and
the capture of the Nijmegen Bridge. As a
company commander, Captain Burriss’s part
in the battle was portrayed in the movie A
Bridge Too Far.
For his service during the war, he received
the Silver Star, three Bronze Stars, and
Combat ‘‘V’’ for valor, the Purple Heart,
three Presidential Unit Citations, French
Fourragere, Belgium Fourragere, and the
Dutch Lanyard.
After the war, Moffatt and Louisa moved
to Columbia where he taught school for a few
years and then went into the construction
business.
In 1970, Moffatt and his three sons formed
Burriss Construction Company which was in-
volved in major construction projects
throughout the southeast. He was active in
numerous civic and business organizations
including the Executives Association of
Greater Columbia (EAGC) of which he was
president in 1964–65, a Board Member of
Lions Club, Presbyterian Home of SC, Med-
ical Missions, SC Lottery Commission, and
as Executive Director of the Business and In-
dustry Political Action Committee (BIPEC).
Moffatt was a founding member of
Eastminster Presbyterian Church where he
served as a ruling Elder.
In 1976, he was elected to the S.C. House of
Representatives where he served until he re-
tired in 1991. He was elected minority leader
for nine of those years where he was instru-
mental in building the present day Repub-
lican Party. In 1989, he received the ‘‘Order
of the Palmetto’’ from Governor Carroll
Campbell.
In 2000, inspired and persuaded by his chil-
dren, Moffatt documented his war experi-
ences by writing the book Strike and Hold, a
memoir of the 82nd Airborne in World War II.
In 2009, Moffatt was invited to Holland to
participate in the 65th Anniversary of Oper-
ation Market Garden in Nijmegen. At the
ceremony Mr. Burriss was recognized by the
Queen of Holland and the Mayor of Nijmegen
and awarded the Nijmegen Medal of Honor
for his part in capturing the Nijmegen
Bridge in 1944. Mr. Burriss celebrated his
90th birthday by once again parachuting at
the original WWII battle site in Holland.
Over the years, Moffatt and Louisa built
their vacation home at their beloved Lake
Dogwood in Eastover, where he enjoyed fish-
ing in the lake. They also enjoyed vacations
in Montreat, N.C., where, even in his nine-
ties, Moffatt helped each of his four children
build their own vacation homes.
In the early 70’s, Moffatt faced the tough-
est battle of his life when Louisa was diag-
nosed with early onset Alzheimer’s Disease.
He courageously cared for her until her
death in 1986. Moffatt was later blessed to
marry Jean Wheelwright Dooley, who had
four grown children of her own, Richard,
John, Mary, and Michael. Jean died in 2010.
He is survived by his three sons and one
daughter, John Hay Burriss (Becca), Moffatt
Burriss Jr. (Suzanne), Francis Burriss
(Nancy), and Louisa ‘‘Weesa’’ Burriss (Bob
Toomey); twelve grandchildren, Catherine
Tuttle, John Burriss, Jr., Louisa Adam
(Brian), Elizabeth Teal (Bart), Alle Denny
(Chris), Lisa Thornton (Brian), Philip Pres-
cott, Rich Prescott, Moffatt Prescott, Rachel
Burriss, Thomas Burriss III, and David
Burriss (Rebecca); and ten great-grand-
children, all who are grateful and humbled to
have shared the life of this honorable gen-
tleman.
The family would like to thank the staff at
Lowman Home and Lutheran Hospice for
their compassionate care of Mr. Burriss dur-
ing his last two months.
A memorial service will be held at Lake
Murray Presbyterian Church, in Chapin, on
Sunday, January 13, at 3:00. The family will
receive visitors at the church at the conclu-
sion of the service. Shives Funeral Home,
Trenholm Road Chapel, is assisting the fam-
ily. Memorials may be made to Lake Murray
Presbyterian Church, 2721 Dutch Fork Road,
Chapin, SC 29063. Memories and condolences
may be shared at ShivesFuneralHome.com.
f
IN HONOR OF CENTRAL-CLAY
COUNTY WINNING THE AHSAA
CLASS 5A FOOTBALL CHAMPION-
SHIP
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize the Central-Clay County
High School football team for winning the Ala-
bama High School Athletic Association
(AHSAA) Class 5A football championship.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08JA8.026 E08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E22 January 8, 2019
The Volunteers defeated Vigor 43–42 in the
championship game on December 6th played
at Jordan-Hare Stadium at Auburn University.
The Volunteers brought home the program’s
first ever state title.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating the students and faculty of Central-
Clay County High School, the coaches, the
players and all the Volunteer fans on this ex-
citing achievement. Go Volunteers.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ILHAN OMAR
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Ms. OMAR. Madam Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted YEA on Roll Call
No. 4.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:35 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A08JA8.029 E08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D20
Tuesday, January 8, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senator-elect Rick Scott, of Florida, was administered the oath of office
by the Vice President.
See Interim Résumé of Congressional Activity.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S35–76
Measures Introduced: Thirty bills and two resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 30–59, and S.
Res. 10–11. Pages S67–68
Measures Considered:
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act—Agreement: Senate resumed consider-
ation of the motion to proceed to consideration of S.
1, to make improvements to certain defense and se-
curity assistance provisions and to authorize the ap-
propriation of funds to Israel, to reauthorize the
United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syr-
ian people. Pages S38–49
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 56 yeas to 44 nays (Vote No. 1), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, not having
voted in the affirmative, Senate rejected the motion
to close further debate on the motion to proceed to
consideration of the bill. Page S48
Senator McConnell entered a motion to reconsider
the vote by which cloture was not invoked on the
motion to proceed to consideration of the bill.
Page S48
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the bill,
and, in accordance with the provisions of Rule XXII
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a vote on clo-
ture will occur on Thursday, January 10, 2019.
Page S48
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the motion to
proceed to consideration of the bill at approximately
10 a.m., on Wednesday, January 9, 2019. Page S72
Swearing in of Senator Rick Scott: The Chair laid
before the Senate the certificate of election of Sen-
ator-elect Rick Scott, of the State of Florida, and the
oath of office was then administered as required by
the U.S. Constitution and prescribed by law.
Page S38
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S66
Measures Read the First Time: Page S66
Executive Communications: Pages S66–67
Additional Cosponsors: Page S68
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S68–72
Additional Statements: Pages S65–66
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—1) Page S48
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 9:01 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Wednesday,
January 9, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S72.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D08JA9.REC D08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D21
January 8, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 83 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 8, 264–355; and 6 resolutions, H.J.
Res. 22; H. Con. Res. 3; and H. Res. 26–27, 29–30,
were introduced. Pages H280–84
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H288–89
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 28, providing for consideration of the bill
(H.R. 264) making appropriations for financial serv-
ices and general government for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2019, and for other purposes;
providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 265)
making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Devel-
opment, Food and Drug Administration, and Re-
lated Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other purposes; pro-
viding for consideration of the bill (H.R. 266) mak-
ing appropriations for the Department of the Inte-
rior, environment, and related agencies for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; providing for consideration of the bill (H.R.
267) making appropriations for the Department of
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other purposes; and
waiving a requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII
with respect to consideration of certain resolutions
reported from the Committee on Rules (H. Rept.
116–1). Page H280
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he
appointed Representative McGovern to act as Speak-
er pro tempore for today. Page H231
Recess: The House recessed at 12:18 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H233
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by a yea-and-nay vote of 235 yeas to
161 nays with two answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No.
15. Pages H233, H277
Oath of Office Designation—Communication:
Pursuant to the provisions of House Resolution 22,
116th Congress, the Chair laid down a communica-
tion from the Honorable G.K. Butterfield of North
Carolina reporting the administration of the oath of
office to the Honorable Walter Jones of North Caro-
lina on January 4, 2019, and stating that two copies
of the oath, signed by Representative Jones, had
been delivered to the Clerk of the House. Page H233
Whole Number of the House: The Chair an-
nounced to the House that, in light of the adminis-
tration of the oath to the gentleman from North
Carolina, the whole number of the House is 434.
Page H233
United States Semiquincentennial Commission—
Appointment: The Chair announced the Speaker’s
appointment of the following Member on the part of
the House to the United States Semiquincentennial
Commission: Representative Evans. Page H234
Recess: The House recessed at 2:10 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4 p.m. Page H234
Committee Elections: The House agreed to H. Res.
26, electing Members to a certain standing com-
mittee of the House of Representatives. Page H234
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Medicaid Extenders Act of 2019: H.R. 259,
amended, to extend the Medicaid Money Follows the
Person Rebalancing demonstration, to extend protec-
tion for Medicaid recipients of home and commu-
nity-based services against spousal impoverishment;
Pages H234–37
Reauthorizing certain programs under the Pub-
lic Health Service Act and the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act with respect to public health se-
curity and all-hazards preparedness and response,
to clarify the regulatory framework with respect to
certain nonprescription drugs that are marketed
without an approved drug application: H.R. 269,
to reauthorize certain programs under the Public
Health Service Act and the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act with respect to public health security
and all-hazards preparedness and response, to clarify
the regulatory framework with respect to certain
nonprescription drugs that are marketed without an
approved drug application, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote
of 401 yeas to 17 nays, Roll No. 13;
Pages H237–66, H275–76
Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program Extension Act: H.R. 251, to extend by
two years the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism
Standards Program of the Department of Homeland
Security, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 414 yeas to 3
nays, Roll No. 14; Pages H266–70, H276–77
Incentivizing Fairness in Subcontracting Act:
H.R. 227, to amend the Small Business Act to
specify what credit is given for certain subcontractors
and to provide a dispute process for non-payment to
subcontractors; and Pages H271–73
Small Business Advocacy Improvements Act of
2019: H.R. 128, to clarify the primary functions and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D08JA9.REC D08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D22 January 8, 2019
duties of the Office of Advocacy of the Small Busi-
ness Administration. Pages H273–75
Recess: The House recessed at 5:32 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H275
Suspension—Proceedings Postponed: The House
debated the following measure under suspension of
the rules. Further proceedings were postponed.
Clarity on Small Business Participation in Cat-
egory Management Act of 2019: H.R. 226, to
amend the Small Business Act to include best in
class designations in the annual report on small busi-
ness goals prepared by the Administrator of the
Small Business Administration. Pages H270–71
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H275–76, H276–77, and H277. There
were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 7:50 p.m.
Committee Meetings
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING; FINANCIAL
SERVICES AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019;
TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019;
AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT,
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, AND
RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019; DEPARTMENT OF THE
INTERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held an organiza-
tional meeting for the 116th Congress; and a hearing
on H.R. 264, the ‘‘Financial Services and General
Government Appropriations Act, 2019’’; H.R. 267,
the ‘‘Transportation, Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
2019’’; H.R. 265, the ‘‘Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment, Food and Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019’’; and H.R. 266,
the ‘‘Department of the Interior, Environment, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019’’. The
Committee adopted its rules of procedure for the
116th Congress and subcommittee ratios, and Rep-
resentative Hastings was designated the Vice Chair
of the Committee. The Committee granted, by
record vote of 9–4, a rule providing for consideration
of H.R. 264, the ‘‘Financial Services and General
Government Appropriations Act, 2019’’; H.R. 265,
the ‘‘Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and
Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appro-
priations Act, 2019’’; H.R. 266, the ‘‘Department of
the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Act, 2019’’; and H.R. 267, the ‘‘De-
partment of Transportation, Housing and Urban De-
velopment, and Related Agencies Appropriations
Act, 2019’’; each under a closed rule. The rule pro-
vides one hour of debate on each bill equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Appropriations or
their respective designees. The rule waives all points
of order against consideration of each bill. The rule
provides that each bill shall be considered as read.
The rule waives all points of order against provisions
in each bill. The rule provides each bill one motion
to recommit. The rule waives the requirement of
clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote to con-
sider a report from the Committee on Rules on the
same day it is presented to the House with respect
to any resolution reported through the legislative
day of January 15, 2019, relating to a measure mak-
ing or continuing appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019. Testimony was heard
from Representatives Quigley, Graves of Georgia,
Bishop of Georgia, Aderholt, McCollum, Calvert,
Price of North Carolina, Diaz-Balart, and Newhouse.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 9, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence: closed business meeting
to consider pending intelligence matters, 2 p.m.,
SH–219.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 18:39 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\D08JA9.REC D08JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D23
January 8, 2019
* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accom-
panying report. A total of 256 written reports have been filed in the Senate,
647 reports have been filed in the House.
Interim Résumé of Congressional Activity
SECOND SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED FIFTEENTH CONGRESS
The first table gives a comprehensive résumé of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House.
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation.
DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
January 3, 2018 through January 3, 2019
Senate House Total
Days in session .................................... 191 174 . .
Time in session ................................... 1,015 hrs., 29′ 657 hrs., 46′ . .
Congressional Record:
Pages of proceedings ................... 8,065 10,612 . .
Extension of remarks ................... . . 1,751 . .
Public bills enacted into law ............... 73 165 238
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . 1 1
Bills in conference ............................... 1 1 . .
Measures passed, total ......................... 641 816 1,457
Senate bills .................................. 145 105 . .
House bills .................................. 224 557 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... 7 2 . .
House joint resolutions ............... 1 1 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 14 10 . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... 15 18 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 235 123 . .
Measures reported, total ...................... * 385 * 610 995
Senate bills .................................. 252 11 . .
House bills .................................. 114 529 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... 1 . . . .
House joint resolutions ............... . . . . . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... . . . . . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 2 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 18 68 . .
Special reports ..................................... 14 33 . .
Conference reports ............................... 4 4 . .
Measures pending on calendar ............. 405 217 . .
Measures introduced, total .................. 1,967 3,259 5,226
Bills ............................................. 1,540 2,672 . .
Joint resolutions .......................... 18 22 . .
Concurrent resolutions ................ 28 52 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 381 513 . .
Quorum calls ....................................... 2 2 . .
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 274 326 . .
Recorded votes .................................... . . 172 . .
Bills vetoed ......................................... . . . . . .
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . .
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS
January 3, 2018 through January 3, 2019
Civilian nominations, totaling 710 (including 146 nominations carried
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 392
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 296
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 22
Other Civilian nominations, totaling 2,025 (including 2 nominations
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 2,015
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 9
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 1
Air Force nominations, totaling 6,274 (including 76 nominations
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 6,264
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 9
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 1
Army nominations, totaling 7,283 (including 12 nominations carried
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 7,273
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 10
Navy nominations, totaling 4,463 (including 11 nominations carried
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 4,462
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 1
Marine Corps nominations, totaling 1,347, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,345
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 2
Summary
Total nominations carried over from the First Session ........................... 247
Total nominations received this Session ................................................ 21,855
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 21,751
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 327
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 24
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0667 Sfmt 0667 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\D08JA9.REC D08JA9
abonner
on
DSKBCJ7HB2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D24 January 8, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Wednesday, January 9
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the motion to proceed to consideration of S. 1,
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle East Act.
(Senate will recess from 12:15 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, January 9
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: To be announced.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Aderholt, Robert B., Ala., E14
Banks, Jim, Ind., E15
Beyer, Donald S., Jr., Va., E15
Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga, E16, E18
Brooks, Susan W., Ind., E19
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E14
Costa, Jim, Calif., E14
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E17, E20
Huffman, Jared, Calif., E15, E17
Omar, Ilhan, Minn., E22
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E17
Jones, Walter B., N.C., E19
Kuster, Ann M., N.H., E17
Langevin, James R., R.I., E14
Lesko, Debbie, Ariz., E15
Lewis, John, Ga., E16
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E21
Lowenthal, Alan S., Calif., E13
Maloney, Carolyn B., N.Y., E16
Meng, Grace, N.Y., E13
Neal, Richard E., Mass., E20
Newhouse, Dan, Wash., E20
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E20
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E20, E21
Visclosky, Peter J., Ind., E13
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E18
Wilson, Joe, S.C., E21
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E19
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jan 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D08JA9.REC D08JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
