Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1219
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019 No. 17
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. KILDEE).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 28, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable DANIEL T.
KILDEE to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
EXASPERATION/FRUSTRATION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. COURTNEY) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, this
morning about 800,000 Federal employ-
ees from the 25 percent of the govern-
ment that had been shut down for the
last 35 days finally were allowed to go
back to work and perform the amazing
service that they do for the American
people in a whole host of different
agencies.
All of us heard from such great
Americans coming from our districts,
and certainly in the Second District of
Connecticut, in eastern Connecticut,
was no exception.
So, for example, Clark Chapin, who is
the head of the Farm Service Agency
at the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
who, again, for 35 days was unable to
work on the different farm programs
that are so important to eastern Con-
necticut farmers, particularly in the
dairy sector with the new dairy insur-
ance program, his frustration in terms
of not being able to get that program
up and running, again, was palpable
when I talked to him about a week or
so ago.
We also have the Coast Guard Acad-
emy in New London, Connecticut,
where, again, that was the one branch
of the military that was shut down be-
cause they don’t reside in the Depart-
ment of Defense. They are in the De-
partment of Homeland Security.
Even though, as Admiral Carl
Schultz, who is the Commandant of the
Coast Guard, pointed out on national
television, there are Coast Guard cut-
ters serving in Bahrain in the fifth
fleet side by side with the U.S. Navy
patrolling the territorial waters of the
Persian Gulf in the Straits of Hormuz
in about the most hazardous waters in
the world. Their Navy counterparts
were certainly being paid, but the
Coast Guard sailors and officers were
not.
In addition, we have got Coast Guard
cutters over in the Indo-Pacific region
doing work in the Straits of Taiwan,
again, highly contested waters. The
unique skills that coastguardsmen and
-women bring to that particular type of
patrol is essential to our country’s na-
tional defense and national security
policy.
They, again, are just a couple of ex-
amples.
Constituents in the State Depart-
ment serving overseas in hazardous
duty areas—the FAA, the TSA, the
IRS, Commerce—this morning, I heard
from one of the Commerce employees.
She went to work this morning. The
payroll system was flooded with folks
trying to submit their timecards, and
the system crashed. They are still try-
ing to sort that out so that people will
get not only their paycheck on Friday,
but also retroactive payments.
Last Thursday, again, hours before
the settlement finally was reached and
the announcement was made from the
White House, I held a telephone town-
hall meeting. We had 8,000 listeners
from all across the district and, again,
a very vigorous debate, and there was
definitely disagreement about whether
there should be a wall on the southern
border or no wall.
But what there was universal agree-
ment about was that shutdowns are
wrong, that shutdowns should never be
used as a tool or leverage to force a
policy provision and cripple, again, the
working lives of people who, again, are
patriots for this country, but also the
taxpayers who rely on the programs
and services that they provide. That is
why, again, it was astonishing to see in
The Wall Street Journal, over the
weekend, that President Trump gave
an interview where he said another
shutdown is ‘‘certainly an option.’’
Mr. Speaker, if we have learned any-
thing as a nation over the last 35 days,
it is what those 8,000 folks who partici-
pated in my telephone townhall articu-
lated over and over again: This should
not be used as leverage to force an
issue through the Congress. It should
go through normal and regular order.
We have a conference committee
from the House and the Senate, from
both parties, that will begin their work
over the next couple of weeks or so to
resolve the dispute. There is overlap.
There is agreement in terms of boost-
ing border security.
But no one should be putting down as
markers that we are going to again dis-
rupt the lives of these Americans once
again just as they are starting to fi-
nally get back into the office and get
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA7.000 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1220 January 28, 2019
the work done for the American people.
Instead, what we should be doing is
voting, as we are tomorrow, on H.R.
790, which is to overturn President
Trump’s executive order of December
28 canceling the pay increase for non-
DOD employees.
Again, some of the very same people
whose lives were turned upside down
over the last 35 days are also going to
lose their pay increase based on the
President’s executive order. The bill we
are going to vote on tomorrow, H.R.
790, is going to overturn that executive
order and give those folks the same pay
raise as folks in the Department of De-
fense: 2.6 percent. These are people
who, again, provide essential public
services for the people of this country.
If nothing else, it was a learning ex-
perience over the last month about
how vital that work is in terms of air
travel, national defense and military
policy, as well as agriculture and proc-
essing of tax returns at the height of
the tax season.
Let’s vote on measures that are
going to restore and heal this country
over the damage that was done over
the last 35 days and take shutdowns off
the table. It is time for shutdown poli-
tics to come to an end.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 6 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. KILDEE) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Almighty God, we give You thanks
for giving us another day.
As the people’s House returns, we
give You thanks for those most respon-
sible for the resolutions reached this
past week and for the reopening of gov-
ernment, which has meant so much to
the families of those who have chosen
to serve their Nation by their work in
government.
Bless all those engaged in negotia-
tions now toward a full funding of gov-
ernment for the current fiscal year,
that the unfortunate suffering of so
many in the past month might remind
them of the sacred trust they have: ‘‘to
provide for the common defense’’ and
‘‘promote the general welfare,’’ succes-
sive phrases in the same sentence of
the Preamble to the Constitution.
Doing these both has always been the
challenge of political science. Grant
the Members the wisdom to do their
best to fulfill this awesome responsi-
bility.
May all that is done here in the peo-
ple’s House be for Your greater honor
and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote on
agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Speaker, I object to
the vote on the ground that a quorum
is not present and make the point of
order that a quorum is not present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr.
WILSON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
U.S.-QATAR STRATEGIC DIALOGUE
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, this month, Qatar and the
United States completed the second an-
nual Strategic Dialogue. The State De-
partment cited the many successes of
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.
The Strategic Dialogue highlighted
the strength of the relationship to
deepen the cooperation to benefit both
countries.
The United States welcomed Qatar’s
generous offer to expand critical facili-
ties at bases used by U.S. forces in the
country, enabling expansion at Al
Udeid Air Base.
Both sides intend to strengthen their
security and counterterrorism partner-
ship to eradicate terrorism and violent
extremism.
There was continued support for a
strong and united Gulf Cooperation
Council promoting a peaceful and pros-
perous future for the region. Our GCC
allies should work together to resolve
their differences for the sake of the
success and security of the region.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
Our sympathy to the family of Rob-
ert Adams, VI.
f
HONORING DR. C.H. CHARLTON ON
HIS RETIREMENT
(Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, today I rise to honor Dr. C.H.
Charlton, affectionately known to all
of us at home as ‘‘Rev,’’ for his 43 years
of faithful service as pastor of Friend-
ship Baptist Church in Johnson City,
Tennessee.
A native of southwest Virginia, Dr.
Charlton was previously pastor of sev-
eral Baptist congregations near his
hometown of Radford, later moving to
Johnson City, where he found his home
at Friendship Baptist Church.
Dr. Charlton is also a dedicated pub-
lic servant. He served as the first Afri-
can American mayor in southwest Vir-
ginia and is recognized by the Virginia
Historical Society as contributing sig-
nificantly to the State’s history.
Dr. Charlton continued to serve in
Johnson City by sitting on the city’s
Regional Planning Commission and
Board of Education while working as a
professor at Northeast State Commu-
nity College.
Furthermore, I am proud to have
served with him on the City Commis-
sion, where he served 2 years as vice
mayor of Johnson City.
Rev is a shining star on the hill. For
nearly six decades, Dr. Charlton has
dedicated himself to serving the Lord,
his wife, his family, and his commu-
nity.
I wish my friend the best in his re-
tirement.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 4 of rule I, the following
enrolled joint resolution was signed by
the Speaker on Friday, January 25,
2019:
H.J. Res. 28, making further con-
tinuing appropriations for fiscal year
2019, and for other purposes.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4:45 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 6 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1647
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. KILDEE) at 4 o’clock and
47 minutes p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.002 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1221
January 28, 2019
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Ms. Mariel
Ridgway, one of his secretaries.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, January 28, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
January 28, 2019, at 2:36 p.m.:
That the Senate agreed to Relative to the
death of Harris L. Wofford, Jr. S. Res. 31
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
PROMOTING TRANSPARENT
STANDARDS FOR CORPORATE IN-
SIDERS ACT
Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 624) to require the Securities and
Exchange Commission to carry out a
study of Rule 10b5–1 trading plans, and
for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 624
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Promoting
Transparent Standards for Corporate Insid-
ers Act’’.
SEC. 2. SEC STUDY.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Securities and Ex-
change Commission shall carry out a study
of whether Rule 10b5–1 (17 C.F.R. 240.10b5–1)
should be amended to—
(A) limit the ability of issuers and issuer
insiders to adopt a plan described under
paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(3) of Rule 10b5–1
(‘‘trading plan’’) to a time when the issuer or
issuer insider is permitted to buy or sell se-
curities during issuer-adopted trading win-
dows;
(B) limit the ability of issuers and issuer
insiders to adopt multiple trading plans;
(C) establish a mandatory delay between
the adoption of a trading plan and the execu-
tion of the first trade pursuant to such a
plan and, if so and depending on the Commis-
sion’s findings with respect to subparagraph
(A)—
(i) whether any such delay should be the
same for trading plans adopted during an
issuer-adopted trading window as opposed to
outside of such a window; and
(ii) whether any exceptions to such a delay
are appropriate;
(D) limit the frequency that issuers and
issuer insiders may modify or cancel trading
plans;
(E) require issuers and issuer insiders to
file with the Commission trading plan adop-
tions, amendments, terminations and trans-
actions; or
(F) require boards of issuers that have
adopted a trading plan to—
(i) adopt policies covering trading plan
practices;
(ii) periodically monitor trading plan
transactions; and
(iii) ensure that issuer policies discuss
trading plan use in the context of guidelines
or requirements on equity hedging, holding,
and ownership.
(2) ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS.—In car-
rying out the study required under para-
graph (1), the Commission shall consider—
(A) how any such amendments may clarify
and enhance existing prohibitions against in-
sider trading;
(B) the impact any such amendments may
have on the ability of issuers to attract per-
sons to become an issuer insider;
(C) the impact any such amendments may
have on capital formation;
(D) the impact any such amendments may
have on an issuer’s willingness to operate as
a public company; and
(E) any other consideration that the Com-
mission considers necessary and appropriate
for the protection of investors.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
1-year period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Commission shall
issue a report to the Committee on Financial
Services of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs of the Senate containing all
findings and determinations made in car-
rying out the study required under section
(a).
(c) RULEMAKING.—After the completion of
the study required under subsection (a), the
Commission shall, subject to public notice
and comment, revise Rule 10b5–1 consistent
with the results of such study.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. HIMES) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MCHENRY) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Connecticut.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days within which to revise
and extend their remarks on this legis-
lation and to insert extraneous mate-
rial thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Connecticut?
There was no objection.
Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to rise in
support of H.R. 624 and to recognize the
bipartisan fashion in which this bill is
being brought to the floor and, in par-
ticular, thank Ranking Member
MCHENRY for his work on this bipar-
tisan bill.
It is terrific to see the first bill out of
the committee and onto the floor be
not only a bipartisan bill, but the kind
of thing that I think we should be able
to find agreement on in this Congress.
We have a robust debate in the com-
mittee and in this Congress around the
question of how we establish well-bal-
anced regulation on the capital mar-
kets and the financial services indus-
try. That is a good debate in which the
answer is always moving, but it is ter-
rific to see that we can agree that
wherever there is an opportunity either
for fraudulent behavior, insider trad-
ing, or rent-seeking to occur—that is
to say, when there is an advantage for
a particular player in the market—that
the parties can come together to move
legislation like H.R. 624.
Whatever we may think and however
we may argue over the proper balance
of regulation, if market participants do
not have confidence in those markets,
we have a huge problem. And nothing
erodes confidence so much as the sus-
picion that there may be players in the
market who have an inside advantage
who are operating fraudulently.
So, again, I thank Mr. MCHENRY for
his work on this bill. I thank Chair-
woman WATERS, in particular, for her
hard work on this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
624, the Promoting Transparent Stand-
ards for Corporate Insiders Act.
This bipartisan legislation is critical
for protecting mom-and-pop investors
from the effects of insider trading
while ensuring that the rules are clear,
fair, and not unduly burdensome.
I want to first thank Chairwoman
WATERS for her sponsorship of this bill
and for writing this legislation. I am
glad to join her in a meaningful effort
to help the Securities and Exchange
Commission better understanding il-
licit trading, and I look forward to
working with her in many more bipar-
tisan efforts and her leadership on the
Financial Services Committee.
Mr. Speaker, preventing and crack-
ing down on fraud and abuse within our
financial system, such as illegal insider
trading, is apolitical and should be.
When a corporate insider breaks the
rules on trading and profits from trad-
ing on insider information, that illegal
activity hurts everyday investors who
diligently put their hard-earned money
away for retirement.
To be clear, most corporate insiders
faithfully follow the insider trading
guidelines under Rule 10b5–1. I know
that is not an everyday quoted thing,
but those folks who are abiding by the
law are complying with this very com-
plex but important rule from the Secu-
rities and Exchange Commission. That
allows for them to purchase and sell se-
curities without concern for insider
trading liability.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 16:34 Apr 15, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H28JA9.REC H28JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1222 January 28, 2019
These law-abiding corporate insiders
should not be punished or barred from
trading just because of the bad actors
who succumbed to greed and those who
chose to illegally trade on insider in-
formation.
When properly adhered to, 10b5–1 in-
sider trading rules are fair tools for al-
lowing folks to help pay for down pay-
ments on a home or help pay for their
kids’ college education or other normal
financial transactions.
Moreover, allowing folks to purchase
and sell securities at predetermined
times on a scheduled basis under that
rule ensures market stability and de-
creases the risk of volatility by pre-
venting fraudulent behavior, such as
pump-and-dump schemes that some-
times occur in the financial markets.
By directing the Securities and Ex-
change Commission to study whether
Rule 10b5–1 should be amended and to
consider how any amendments to the
rule would clarify and enhance existing
prohibitions against insider trading,
this legislation achieves a bipartisan
goal of protecting mom-and-pop inves-
tors while encouraging economic
growth.
And, again, I want to thank Chair-
woman WATERS for her leadership. I ap-
plaud her willingness to work in a bi-
partisan way and in this important bi-
partisan manner that she is approach-
ing the Financial Services Committee’s
jurisdiction we both care so much
about. That bipartisan activity should
help improve Federal oversight and
protect American investors as well as
enhance economic growth.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 624, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. WATERS) will control the
time for the majority.
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I am very pleased to have worked
with Ranking Member MCHENRY on
this bipartisan bill, H.R. 624, the Pro-
moting Transparent Standards for Cor-
porate Insiders Act.
The bill is designed to promote
strong enforcement against financial
fraud by ensuring that corporate ex-
ecutives cannot indirectly and illegally
trade on material nonpublic informa-
tion that they know about their com-
panies.
The Securities and Exchange Com-
mission prohibits insider trading as a
fraud that hurts both company inves-
tors and the integrity of our capital
markets. Those accused of illegal in-
sider trading may defend themselves by
using the SEC’s rule for trading plans,
Rule 10b5–1, and state that any trades
that occurred while they possessed in-
side information were made pursuant
to a pre-approved training plan. But
the rule for trading plans has several
shortcomings that may allow corporate
insiders to get away with insider trad-
ing.
My bill would require the SEC to
study whether to amend its rule for
trading plans to limit the ability of
corporate insiders to, for example,
adopt multiple, overlapping plans or
change their plans to indirectly take
advantage of inside information. The
bill would then require the SEC to re-
port to Congress and revise its rules
based on the results of the study.
This bill is much needed as fraudu-
lent stock sales by high-ranking execu-
tives can erode confidence in our mar-
kets. For example, in November of 2017,
the CEO of Intel reportedly sold $39
million in stock after he learned of two
security flaws in Intel processors and
within days of revising his trading plan
for the second time that year.
This bill is supported by investor and
consumer advocates, public pension
funds, and State securities regulators,
including Public Citizen; Americans for
Financial Reform; California Public
Employees’ Retirement System,
CalPERS; the California State Teach-
ers’ Retirement System, CalSTRS; the
Council of Institutional Investors;
Healthy Markets; and North American
Securities Administrators Association.
I thank Ranking Member MCHENRY
for joining me in reintroducing this
bill this Congress, and I urge Members
to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOODEN), a new Member of this
body and a new member of the Finan-
cial Services Committee.
Mr. GOODEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 624, the Pro-
moting Transparent Standards for Cor-
porate Insiders Act.
Introduced by Chairwoman WATERS
and Ranking Member MCHENRY, this
bipartisan bill would require the SEC
to update regulatory language to en-
sure corporate insiders are not able to
take advantage of loopholes in the sys-
tem to engage in illegal insider trad-
ing.
The language within the bill over-
whelming passed the House last Con-
gress as part of the JOBS Act 3.0.
Simply put, Mr. Speaker, it should be
a top priority for financial regulators
to ensure clear guidelines and robust
enforcement against any illegal activ-
ity.
This legislation, along with the
SEC’s recent guidance, will help us bet-
ter understand insider trading, serve as
a driving force to hold potential bad
actors accountable, and further pro-
mote good governance among the lead-
ers of our Nation’s financial system.
I strongly support this bill and would
like to thank Ranking Member
MCHENRY for the time this afternoon.
Mr. Speaker, I also look forward to
working with all my colleagues on the
Financial Services Committee, and I
thank Chairwoman WATERS for filing
this bill and carrying it forward.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from New
York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ), who is a senior
member of the Financial Services Com-
mittee and the chairwoman of the
Small Business Committee.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of H.R. 624, the Promoting
Transparent Standards for Corporate
Insiders Act, bipartisan legislation
sponsored by Chairwoman WATERS and
Ranking Member MCHENRY.
Mr. Speaker, our Nation’s financial
markets are safer and more efficient
when they are transparent.
b 1700
Unfortunately, those that participate
in insider trading damage the structure
and integrity of our financial markets
by engaging in practices outside of the
public’s view, profiting on information
that is only known to a select few.
This nefarious practice damages ordi-
nary, hardworking Americans who in-
vest in pension funds, 401(k)s, mutual
funds, and other retirement vehicles.
As lawmakers, we must remain ever
vigilant and seek to root out this ille-
gal practice before it starts.
Currently, SEC regulations permit
corporate insiders to evade insider
trading rules by allowing them to
adopt multiple trading plans and make
select changes to their predetermined
trading plans.
H.R. 624 closes this loophole by re-
quiring the SEC to study and analyze
the effectiveness of its current insider
trading rules while also considering
any rule change’s impact on capital
formation and a company’s willingness
to go public. Further, the bill requires
the SEC report to Congress on its find-
ing and draft rules consistent with the
results.
This carefully crafted piece of legis-
lation is an important step to closing a
loophole in our Nation’s insider trading
laws.
Mr. Speaker, I want to take this op-
portunity to commend Chair WATERS
and Ranking Member MCHENRY for
working in a bipartisan manner on this
bill. I hope it is the first of many bipar-
tisan bills we can bring to the floor
from the Financial Services Committee
in the 116th Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the speedy adop-
tion of this important measure.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Con-
necticut (Mr. HIMES), who is a senior
member on the Financial Services
Committee and on the Intelligence
Committee.
Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I thank
very much Madam Chairwoman for
yielding, and, again, to the ranking
member. It is a delight, as I said be-
fore, to come right out with a bipar-
tisan bill that really addresses the fun-
damental question of confidence in our
markets.
H.R. 624—and I will be proud to vote
for it and urge my colleagues to do the
same—closes a number of technical
loopholes that have allowed corporate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.009 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1223
January 28, 2019
insiders over time flexibility to actu-
ally trade possibly on inside informa-
tion. That, of course, has the effect of
causing regular investors to wonder
whether they want to compete with
that sort of player in the market.
H.R. 624 is a terrific bipartisan,
thoughtful bill right out of the gates in
the Financial Services Committee.
I want to just take 30 seconds,
though, to reflect on the fact that at
this point in time, there is currently
no Federal law explicitly prohibiting
insider trading. That requires the SEC
and the Department of Justice to rely
on general antifraud provisions in the
law to go after people suspected of in-
sider trading.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I would just
like to urge the committee, the chair-
woman and the ranking member, to re-
flect on the words of U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff, who wrote: ‘‘But if
unlawful insider trading is to be prop-
erly deterred, it must be adequately de-
fined. The appropriate body to do so,
one would think, is Congress.’’
Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairwoman
and ranking member for their hard
work on this bill. I hope we can take it
to the next step of making it very clear
that insider trading itself is a crime for
the lack of confidence that it generates
in our capital markets.
Mr. Speaker, I again thank the chair-
woman and the ranking member, and I
urge passage of H.R. 624.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I am
prepared to close, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. CASTEN).
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
I thank Chairwoman WATERS and
Ranking Member MCHENRY for work-
ing in a bipartisan manner to craft
H.R. 624, a bill to help the Securities
and Exchange Commission better pro-
tect hardworking Americans from fi-
nancial fraud.
As a new member on the Financial
Services Committee, I look forward to
working together with both the chair-
woman and the ranking member on
similar commonsense pieces of legisla-
tion.
However, we cannot forget that the
most recent shutdown all but caused
the SEC to shut its doors. If people
wanted to manipulate and defraud fi-
nancial markets that was the perfect
time to get away with it.
Now that the shutdown has ended, we
have to work together to ensure that
the government stays open to protect
consumers and focus on proactive
measures like H.R. 624 that will
strengthen our markets.
Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 624, and I
thank the chairwoman for her leader-
ship.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, now, being in the mi-
nority and the majority, we are both
learning something in the organization
of control and debate on the House
floor. Chairwoman WATERS has been
the ranking member of the committee
previously to coming to the chair. Now
I have to ask her for time, which is a
different process.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to close on
this important bill, the first bill from
the Financial Services Committee for
this Congress. It is a bill written by
Chairwoman WATERS and cosponsored
by me as the ranking member.
This is a piece of legislation that we
had discussed and worked through last
Congress, and she was the lead sponsor
and I was the cosponsor of it last Con-
gress, and I held to my word and she
has held to her word.
This is proof that we can have bipar-
tisan achievement that is of substance,
that is real, that is meaningful, and we
can do it representing vastly different
districts, having different world views,
having our disagreements that we have
stated publicly and privately to one an-
other, but still being willing to work
through those disagreements to ham-
mer out something that is good for the
investor, for the consumer, to make
sure that we have important consumer
protections while also having vibrant
markets of exchange so that we can lift
folks out of poverty, to actually make
sure people are safe for retirement.
There are wonderful opportunities for
us to legislate in a bipartisan way.
This is proof of what potential we have
in the Financial Services jurisdiction.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chair-
woman WATERS for her efforts here. I
urge my colleagues to support and vote
for this important piece of legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I thank once again
Chairwoman WATERS for her leader-
ship, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time. I am
pleased that I was able to work in a bi-
partisan manner with the gentleman
from North Carolina (Mr. MCHENRY),
the committee’s ranking member.
This bill shows that protecting our
capital markets is something that both
sides of the aisle should support. The
SEC is indeed our cop on the block, and
they need this bill and additional fund-
ing resources in order to make sure
that our markets and our investors are
safe from fraud.
Another thing that the SEC needs is
stability. During the recent govern-
ment shutdown, the longest shutdown
in American history, the SEC essen-
tially closed its doors, furloughing 94
percent of its staff and suspending its
enforcement efforts.
For 34 days the agency was forced to
police the markets with a skeleton
crew of 110 enforcement staff. This may
translate into unacceptable delays in
holding bad actors accountable and ob-
taining relief for their victims.
The SEC wasn’t the only agency im-
pacted. The Congressional Budget Of-
fice estimates that the Trump shut-
down cost our economy $11 billion, and
$3 billion of that will never be recov-
ered.
What is more, the White House
wouldn’t even rule out the chance of
another shutdown in 3 weeks.
Mr. Speaker, we should fully fund our
government and focus our efforts on bi-
partisan compromises like H.R. 624.
Again, I am pleased that one of the
first bills to be brought to the floor for
a vote from the Financial Services
Committee is a bill that is cosponsored
by Ranking Member MCHENRY that
seeks to strengthen the ability of the
SEC to punish fraudsters and protect
investors.
So, Mr. Speaker and Members, again,
I am pleased to have had the oppor-
tunity to work with the ranking mem-
ber and to come together and present a
bill that is extremely important and
will go a long way to getting rid of in-
siders who would basically cheat the
system.
So Mr. MCHENRY and I have not only
worked on this bill together, we devel-
oped a relationship some time ago. And
I know that there are those who are
thinking that, oh, I don’t know if both
sides are going to be able to get to-
gether in an atmosphere that really is
not conducive to getting along some-
times, but Mr. MCHENRY and I have
shown that it is possible, and we are
looking forward to other opportunities.
We are not going to agree on every-
thing and we are going to oppose each
other on some things, but this bill here
today indicates that we are willing to
work together to try and see what we
can do as cosponsors and coauthors of
important pieces of legislation that
both sides of the aisle should be sup-
porting.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Connecticut (Mr.
HIMES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 624.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
FIGHT ILLICIT NETWORKS AND
DETECT TRAFFICKING ACT
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 502) to require the Comptroller
General of the United States to carry
out a study on how virtual currencies
and online marketplaces are used to
buy, sell, or facilitate the financing of
goods or services associated with sex
trafficking or drug trafficking, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 502
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.011 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1224 January 28, 2019
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Fight Illicit
Networks and Detect Trafficking Act’’ or the
‘‘FIND Trafficking Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
The Congress finds the following:
(1) According to the Drug Enforcement Ad-
ministration (DEA) 2017 National Drug
Threat Assessment, transnational criminal
organizations are increasingly using virtual
currencies.
(2) In its 2015 National Money Laundering
Risk Assessment, the Department of the
Treasury concluded: ‘‘The development of
virtual currencies is an attempt to meet a le-
gitimate market demand. According to a
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago economist,
United States consumers want payment op-
tions that are versatile and that provide im-
mediate finality. No United States payment
method meets that description, although
cash may come closest. Virtual currencies
can mimic cash’s immediate finality and an-
onymity and are more versatile than cash
for online and cross-border transactions,
making virtual currencies vulnerable for il-
licit transactions.’’.
(3) Virtual currencies have become a
prominent method to pay for goods and serv-
ices associated with illegal sex trafficking
and drug trafficking, which are two of the
most detrimental and troubling illegal ac-
tivities facilitated by online marketplaces.
(4) Online marketplaces, including the
dark web, have become a prominent platform
to buy, sell, and advertise for illicit goods
and services associated with sex trafficking
and drug trafficking.
(5) According to the International Labour
Organization, in 2016, 4.8 million people in
the world were victims of forced sexual ex-
ploitation, and in 2014, the global profit from
commercial sexual exploitation was $99 bil-
lion.
(6) In 2016, within the United States, the
Center for Disease Control estimated that
there were 64,000 deaths related to drug over-
dose, and the most severe increase in drug
overdoses were those associated with
fentanyl and fentanyl analogs (synthetic
opioids), which amounted to over 20,000 over-
dose deaths.
(7) According to the United States Depart-
ment of the Treasury 2015 National Money
Laundering Risk Assessment, an estimated
$64 billion is generated annually from United
States drug trafficking sales.
(8) Illegal fentanyl in the United States
originates primarily from China, and it is
readily available to purchase through online
marketplaces.
SEC. 3. GAO STUDY.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—The Comptroller
General of the United States shall conduct a
study on how virtual currencies and online
marketplaces are used to facilitate sex and
drug trafficking. The study shall consider—
(1) how online marketplaces, including the
dark web, are being used as platforms to buy,
sell, or facilitate the financing of goods or
services associated with sex trafficking or
drug trafficking (specifically, opioids and
synthetic opioids, including fentanyl,
fentanyl analogs, and any precursor chemi-
cals associated with manufacturing fentanyl
or fentanyl analogs) destined for, originating
from, or within the United States;
(2) how financial payment methods, includ-
ing virtual currencies and peer-to-peer mo-
bile payment services, are being utilized by
online marketplaces to facilitate the buying,
selling, or financing of goods and services as-
sociated with sex or drug trafficking des-
tined for, originating from, or within the
United States;
(3) how virtual currencies are being used to
facilitate the buying, selling, or financing of
goods and services associated with sex or
drug trafficking, destined for, originating
from, or within the United States, when an
online platform is not otherwise involved;
(4) how illicit funds that have been trans-
mitted online and through virtual currencies
are repatriated into the formal banking sys-
tem of the United States through money
laundering or other means;
(5) the participants (state and non-state
actors) throughout the entire supply chain
that participate in the buying, selling, or fi-
nancing of goods and services associated
with sex or drug trafficking (through online
marketplaces or virtual currencies) destined
for, originating from, or within the United
States;
(6) Federal and State agency efforts to im-
pede the buying, selling, or financing of
goods and services associated with sex or
drug trafficking through online market-
places or virtual currencies that are destined
for, originating from, or within the United
States, including efforts to prevent the pro-
ceeds from sex or drug trafficking from en-
tering the United States banking system
through online marketplaces or virtual cur-
rencies; and
(7) to what extent can the immutable and
traceable nature of virtual currencies con-
tribute to the tracking and prosecution of il-
licit funding.
(b) SCOPE.—For the purposes of the study
required under subsection (a), the term ‘‘sex
trafficking’’ means the recruitment, har-
boring, transportation, provision, obtaining,
patronizing, or soliciting of a person for the
purpose of a commercial sex act that is in-
duced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in
which the person induced to perform such
act has not attained 18 years of age.
(c) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and
the Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives a report summa-
rizing the results of the study required under
subsection (a), together with any rec-
ommendations for legislative or regulatory
action that would improve the efforts of Fed-
eral agencies to impede the use of virtual
currencies and online marketplaces in facili-
tating sex and drug trafficking.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MCHENRY) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 502, the
Fight Illicit Networks and Detect Traf-
ficking Act, which would advance ef-
forts to counter the illicit uses of vir-
tual currencies and marketplaces in
drug trafficking and sex trafficking.
The study in the report designed to
drive action from government and its
partners is needed now more than ever.
In 2017, more than 70,000 Americans
died of drug overdoses, a 10 percent rise
from the previous year. The percentage
of those deaths from synthetic drugs
like fentanyl and its analogs increased
sharply as well. It is said that Ameri-
cans are now more likely to die from
opioid overdose than a car wreck, drop-
ping our collective life expectancy.
Further, the International Labor Or-
ganization estimates that there are 4.8
million people trapped in forced sexual
exploitation globally. Online market-
places and cryptocurrencies facilitate
this abuse, not just abroad, but in our
own communities, where victims are
exploited by bad actors, forcing men,
women, and children into horrifying
situations from which it is difficult to
escape.
The bill would require the GAO to
study how online marketplaces and vir-
tual currencies are being used for drug
and sex trafficking.
b 1715
It will examine the participants in
these trafficking supply chains and
how they cash in and out of their dig-
ital marketplaces, returning their illic-
itly gained proceeds to the formal
banking system.
The study will also tell us about ex-
isting Federal and State efforts to im-
pede such activities, so we can identify
how to better tackle these crimes.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman
VARGAS and Congresswoman WAGNER
for introducing this bipartisan legisla-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support for this
bill, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
502, the FIND Trafficking Act.
Consider this: In 2017 alone, more
than 47,000 Americans died from opioid
overdoses. Additionally, it is estimated
that the total number of human traf-
ficking victims in the U.S. reached
into the hundreds of thousands.
These shocking numbers point to a
deep, systemic issue happening right in
our backyards, where bad actors use
any means necessary—even financial
products—in order to lure people into
horrible situations. One of the ways
they do this is by using virtual cur-
rencies to evade the oversight of insti-
tutions, like government agencies.
While virtual currencies may possess
a great opportunity for society, we
don’t quite know the extent of their
utility in human trafficking.
Mr. Speaker, these virtual currencies
are one of the most versatile payment
options available today, yet they are
among the least understood. We need
to do more work in order to understand
their utility and their opportunity.
It is precisely this lack of under-
standing that risks making virtual cur-
rencies ripe for exploitation by these
bad actors engaged in human traf-
ficking and the sale of illicit drugs. In
its 2017 National Drug Assessment, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA7.005 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1225
January 28, 2019
Drug Enforcement Administration con-
cluded that transnational criminal or-
ganizations are increasingly using vir-
tual currencies for illicit activities, in-
cluding drug trafficking. This includes
illicit transactions with China, as well
as the sale and purchase of narcotics,
including those involved in our coun-
try’s opioid epidemic.
This bipartisan legislation before us
is an instrumental first step toward
analyzing how virtual currencies and
online marketplaces are used to buy,
sell, or facilitate the financing of goods
and services associated with human
and drug trafficking.
By directing the Government Ac-
countability Office to study how vir-
tual currencies are linked to the supply
chain of drugs and human trafficking,
this bill will give lawmakers insight in
how to sever that link. We need to
know how virtual currencies are being
used; the scope of their use; and, most
importantly, how our Federal and
State agencies must respond, and can
respond, to impede their use for illicit
activities.
Let me add, Mr. Speaker, that noth-
ing in this legislation is meant to de-
monize the use or the development of
virtual currencies for legitimate eco-
nomic activity. As my colleagues
know, there are few Members more
committed than I am to how new tech-
nologies can facilitate commerce and
growth. But in order for such tech-
nologies to flourish, we need a rigorous
discussion on the risks in enabling new
routes for illicit finance.
We need to understand that as pol-
icymakers. This bill is important be-
cause it enables us to have the meas-
urement tools necessary for us to
smartly legislate in this area. Main-
stream acceptance of innovation de-
pends on mainstream forms of account-
ability, and this bill does just that.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from California (Mr. VARGAS) for his
sponsorship of the bill. I thank my vice
ranking member on the Financial
Services Committee, my second in
command on the Financial Services
Committee, Mrs. WAGNER of Missouri,
for her sponsorship and leadership on
this important issue of human traf-
ficking that she is so very committed
to and so smart on legislating around.
I thank them both for setting the right
tone for our committee jurisdiction,
smart legislating, and reaching across
the aisle. I know they will continue to
lead the fight against trafficking as
Members of the House Financial Serv-
ices Committee this Congress, as they
have in previous years as well.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote for this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. VARGAS), the sponsor of the
bill.
Mr. VARGAS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairwoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge my
colleagues to support H.R. 502, the
Fight Illicit Networks and Detect Traf-
ficking Act, or, as you heard, the FIND
Trafficking Act.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairwoman
WATERS and Ranking Member
MCHENRY for their support and their
guidance of this legislation.
I also especially thank my colleague,
Representative WAGNER, for her leader-
ship on this issue and for agreeing to
co-lead this commonsense, narrowly
tailored legislation. I thank her for her
guidance and her leadership.
As you may know, a virtual currency
is a digital representation of value that
can be digitally traded. Since the cre-
ation of bitcoin, the first and most
widely known example of a
cryptocurrency, thousands of
cryptocurrencies have emerged that
are designed to serve a variety of pur-
poses.
Some forms of virtual currency pro-
vide a digital alternative to cash that
lacks the oversight of a government or
a central bank, and, potentially, offers
greater anonymity than conventional
payment systems.
Just as virtual currencies have grown
in use in legitimate commerce, as we
heard from the ranking member, they
have also, unfortunately, become an in-
creasingly popular financial payment
method for criminals.
Virtual currencies have been, and
continue to be, exploited to pay for
goods and services associated with il-
licit sex and drug trafficking. These
are two of the most detrimental and
troubling illegal activities sold online.
According to the DEA 2017 National
Drug Assessment, transnational crimi-
nal organizations are increasingly
using virtual currencies, due to their
ease of use and the anonymity they
provide. While evidence points to a
growth of virtual currencies as a pay-
ment method for illicit sex and drug
trafficking, the true scope of the prob-
lem and potential solutions have not
been fully established.
According to the International
Labour Organization, in 2016, 4.8 mil-
lion people in the world were victims of
forced sexual exploitation, and, in 2014,
the global profit from commercial sex-
ual exploitation was $99 billion.
Unfortunately, virtual currencies are
also being used as a payment method
for transnational drug traffickers. As
we all know too well, and as was stated
here, the United States is struggling to
combat the rising number of lives cut
short by tragic opioid use. In 2016
alone, the CDC estimated that there
were 64,000 deaths in the U.S. related to
drug overdose, and the most severe in-
crease in drug overdoses were those as-
sociated with fentanyl and fentanyl
analogs.
Fentanyl is an extremely deadly
opioid, about 50 to 100 times more po-
tent than morphine. Fentanyl is being
illicitly manufactured in China and
Mexico, with most of the illegal
fentanyl in the United States origi-
nating primarily in China, and it is
readily available to purchase through
online marketplaces.
If we are to craft effective regulatory
and legislative solutions to combat
these transnational criminal organiza-
tions, we need to fully study and ana-
lyze how virtual currencies and online
marketplaces are used to facilitate sex
and drug trafficking to determine how
to best eliminate their use.
H.R. 502, the FIND Trafficking Act of
2019, requires the Comptroller General
of the United States to: one, carry out
a study on how virtual currencies and
online marketplaces are used to facili-
tate sex or drug trafficking; and, two,
make recommendations to Congress on
legislative and regulatory actions that
would impede the use of virtual cur-
rencies and online marketplaces in fa-
cilitating sex and drug trafficking.
It is my sincere hope that this bill is
a first step, as we heard, toward
crafting bipartisan legislation to im-
pede and, eventually, eliminate the use
of virtual currencies by transnational
criminal organizations to facilitate
drug and sex trafficking.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues
for the bipartisan nature of this bill—
in particular, again, Representative
WAGNER—and I urge my colleagues to
support the bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentlewoman from Mis-
souri (Mrs. WAGNER), the vice ranking
member of the House Financial Serv-
ices Committee, who will be the rank-
ing member of the Subcommittee on
Diversity and Inclusion on the Finan-
cial Services Committee as well.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the vice ranking member for yielding.
And I thank my friend and colleague
from California for his leadership and
support on this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge my
colleagues to support the FIND Traf-
ficking Act. The fight against online
sex trafficking has been one of the
most important endeavors since I first
came to Congress. I have worked with
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
update our Nation’s laws to effectively
combat contemporary methods used to
exploit our Nation’s women and chil-
dren.
The fact of the matter is that sex
trafficking has moved from the streets
to the internet. Traffickers advertise,
buy, and sell women and children,
using online marketplaces with impu-
nity.
Last April, my Fight Online Sex
Trafficking Act, or FOSTA, became
law, and many websites engaged in sex
trafficking shut down to avoid liability
for their crimes. This was a tremen-
dous step forward, but our job is not
finished.
The reality is that sex and drug traf-
ficking are extremely profitable, and
there are still websites that are know-
ingly facilitating criminal activity.
Traffickers are increasingly using the
anonymity of virtual currencies, like
bitcoin and others, to finance their
networks of exploitation, both online
and off-line. These criminals use vir-
tual currencies to avoid detection and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.015 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1226 January 28, 2019
prosecution, a practice that creates an
unprecedented challenge for financial
regulators and law enforcement.
This is a new playing field, and we
need better enforcement of existing
laws and more information about how
criminals are using virtual currencies
to finance their operations. We need to
know how illicit funds are being repa-
triated into the formal banking sys-
tem. We need to understand whether
Federal and State agencies have the
tools they need to stop criminal profits
from entering our financial system. We
also need to know how drug traffickers
are using the internet to sell opioids,
including deadly fentanyl. We need to
understand how websites are using pay-
ment methods to facilitate the sale of
illegal activities.
This is why Congressman JUAN
VARGAS and I have introduced the
FIND Trafficking Act. The legislation
would give us valuable data on how
traffickers are anonymously transfer-
ring money to facilitate sex and drug
trafficking.
The FIND Trafficking Act will help
construct a web of intelligence nec-
essary to protect victims and to pros-
ecute traffickers. Congressman JUAN
VARGAS has been a tremendous leader
in this space, and I thank him for all
the work that he is doing to stop crimi-
nal enterprises from exploiting vulner-
able populations.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
join us in standing with the hundreds
of thousands of Americans who have
been affected by drug and sex traf-
ficking.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. TLAIB).
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairwoman WATERS for yielding time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in
support of the FIND Trafficking Act.
Human trafficking is pervasive
across the United States and the world.
My own home State of Michigan ranks
in the top 10th of States when it comes
to this issue.
Sex and drug trafficking is a horrific
experience for some of the most vulner-
able populations, including children
and those who have experienced trau-
ma and violence in the past.
Human trafficking takes form in
many ways, ways that we sometimes
may not even know exists. With virtual
currency becoming more and more
common, along with the vast, unknown
happenings on the dark web, it is im-
portant for us to have access to infor-
mation to stop this kind of illegal
trafficking.
b 1730
We must find ways to limit financial
options for those who seek to exploit
and harm others through trafficking.
The FIND Trafficking Act will allow us
to understand virtual currencies and
online marketplaces, especially on the
dark web, and how it has contributed
to the rise of sex and drug trafficking
across this country.
With the popularity of virtual cur-
rency, it is important for us to make
sure that it is not being used for this in
the fight against trafficking. It is my
hope that we all stand in support of
this bill.
They can try to hide, Mr. Speaker,
behind the dark web and these faceless
currencies, but under the leadership of
Chairwoman WATERS, Member VARGAS,
and Member WAGNER, we hope to find
you and to stop you from harming our
residents.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. RIGGLEMAN), a new Member
of Congress from Afton, Virginia, and a
new member of the Financial Services
Committee.
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Mr. Speaker,
today I am proud to speak in support of
H.R. 502, the Fight Illicit Networks and
Detect Trafficking Act, or the FIND
Trafficking Act.
First, I would like to commend Rep-
resentative VARGAS for sponsoring this
bipartisan legislation, and I would also
like to thank my colleague from Mis-
souri (Mrs. WAGNER), for her important
work on this bill.
As the father of three daughters, in-
cluding one at James Madison Univer-
sity, who is currently working on a
project utilizing technology to combat
human trafficking, it is deeply con-
cerning to me that sex traffickers and
drug smugglers have seamless access to
the financial system through the use of
virtual currencies.
Virtual currencies were created to
meet legitimate market demand, but
have increasingly become the preferred
method of payment for illicit goods
and services facilitated by the dark
web. Virtual currencies appeal to
criminals because of their versatility
and ability to provide anonymity dur-
ing transactions.
According to the International
Labour Organization, in 2016, 4.8 mil-
lion people in this world were victims
of forced sexual exploitation. In 2014,
the global profit from commercial sex-
ual exploitation was $99 billion. Addi-
tionally, a 2015 Treasury Department
report estimated that $64 billion is gen-
erated annually just from the United
States in drug trafficking sales.
This bill calls for the Comptroller
General to conduct a study on how vir-
tual currencies and online market-
places are being used to facilitate sex
and drug trafficking, and how these
funds are repatriated into the banking
system.
By enacting this legislation, Con-
gress will be taking a much-needed
step to better understand the methods
and tactics used by criminals. This in-
formation will be critical to law en-
forcement efforts to thwart sex traf-
fickers, drug dealers, terrorists, and
other bad actors. Mr. Speaker, I
strongly support this bill.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Mas-
sachusetts (Ms. PRESSLEY).
Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Chairwoman WATERS for her
lifetime of service and commitment to
those who are ignored, left out, and left
behind.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 502, the FIND Trafficking Act.
Moreover, I rise today on behalf of the
survivors of sex trafficking in my dis-
trict, Massachusetts’ Seventh Congres-
sional District, and across our Nation.
The sex and drug trafficking industry
is a $150 billion industry across the
globe and throughout our commu-
nities. This bill would bring us one step
closer to combating this pervasive and
insidious industry.
I rise today to lift up the lived expe-
rience of one of its survivors: Casey, a
13-year old who grew up in the care of
the child welfare system after sur-
viving an abusive home. Before being
referred to My Life My Choice, a pro-
gram in my district that is survivor led
that works with those impacted by
trafficking, Casey had been placed in
multiple residential programs.
Just this year, Casey went missing
for 1 week. Casey describes an experi-
ence that is harrowing and, unfortu-
nately, not unique. Craving friendship,
companionship, and safety, she built
relationships online that turned into
in-person meetings.
Those meetings did not provide the
safety or support Casey hoped for;
rather, they led to her exploitation.
She found herself at parties where men
she trusted demanded she have sex
with other men. She lived in fear, and
endured many indignities. Her safety
was compromised and her humanity
marginalized.
To Casey and survivors across the
Nation watching, I affirm loud and
clear: What happened to you is not
your fault. We believe you and we are
here fighting for you.
We know that trafficking is enabled
by many factors. Broken systems de-
stroy the lives of too many. I would
like to thank Representative VARGAS
and Representative WAGNER for their
bipartisan leadership to tackle these
issues, and to shed light on the ways
that virtual currencies are being ma-
nipulated by traffickers to commit
horrific human rights abuses, and con-
tributing to our country’s drug crisis.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from Massachusetts.
Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, the
FIND Trafficking Act will require the
Federal Government to investigate the
ways in which sex and drug trafficking
rings are capitalizing on the anonym-
ity, such as bitcoin, to finance the
worldwide industry of modern-day slav-
ery and sexual exploitation without
fear of detection. This would provide
policy and regulatory recommenda-
tions on ways to crack down on these
horrendous abuses.
It is estimated that more than 45
million men, women, and children are
affected by sex and human trafficking
across the globe. Since 2011, my home
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.016 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1227
January 28, 2019
State of Massachusetts has been work-
ing to tackle this growing industry. We
have been working to end this modern-
day slavery and exploitation through
coalitions and innovative partnerships
between survivor-led, community-
based organizations, businesses, and
local and State government agencies.
While these coalitions are making
progress, they cannot do it alone. The
Federal Government has a critical role
to play in providing resources and re-
search to guide this work. The FIND
Trafficking Act will shed much-needed
light in the ways that technology-
based currencies have fueled and fi-
nanced these human rights abuses. We
will not rest until every survivor re-
ceives justice, and we dismantle these
systems of oppression and exploitation
that drive trafficking and abuse.
To all survivors: We see you. We be-
lieve you, and we are fighting for you.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Pennsylvania (Ms. DEAN).
Ms. DEAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the
FIND Trafficking Act, H.R. 502. Over
the last several years, the work of law
enforcement has gotten significantly
harder. One difference, cryptocur-
rencies; virtual currencies such as
bitcoin, Ethereum, and others, have
changed consumers’ relationships with
money in profound ways, allowing
them to conduct anonymous trans-
actions outside the traditional banking
sector.
Criminal networks have taken advan-
tage of these new tools using virtual
currencies to carry out drug sales and
sex trafficking operations. That is why
the FIND Trafficking Act is so impor-
tant.
This bipartisan bill would require the
Comptroller General of the United
States to study how virtual currencies
enable criminal activity and propose
solutions to stop it.
Based on these findings, Congress
would design legislation to regulate
virtual currencies. Our law enforce-
ment officials are already working
hard to tackle this challenge.
In November of 2016, for example,
during an investigation into an illegal
fentanyl operation, Federal law en-
forcement seized $2 million in virtual
currency. Nonetheless, human traf-
fickers and drug dealers have gravi-
tated to virtual currencies because
they provide an unprecedented level of
secrecy and anonymity.
According to DEA, online market-
places now use virtual currencies to
sell fentanyl, a prime contribution to
America’s deadly opioid crisis. We are
now living and dying through the con-
sequences.
According to the CDC, in 2017, more
than 70,000 Americans died from drug
overdoses. My own State of Pennsyl-
vania is ravaged with the third highest
rate of overdose-related deaths and un-
told suffering for families in our com-
munities.
The bottom line is we know that vir-
tual currencies are being used to fund
sex and drug trafficking, but we don’t
know the true scope of the problem,
nor do we have a full set of tools to ad-
dress the challenge. That is why we
need H.R. 502.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I think it is
important that Congress understand.
The objective of this bill is to under-
stand the contours of human traf-
ficking that occur here in the United
States, and to understand the contours
of how drugs are financed. It is incum-
bent that we have the proper data and
the public have the proper data so we
can understand how to respond.
That is what this measure is about,
the plight of those human-trafficking
victims, and the plight of those who
are suffering the impairments and the
devastating consequences that opioids
have brought in our society. We know
those in our community.
What we have to understand is the
deeper issues around the movement of
money, which is what the Financial
Services Committee can do. It doesn’t
fix the full problem, and we should
focus on fixing the larger issues around
human trafficking and drug overdoses,
and the horrible effects of illicit drugs
on our society.
But what we can do here is under-
stand the contour so we can cut off
that siphon of money that is fueling
this epidemic in our communities all
across America.
I want to thank Mr. VARGAS and Mrs.
WAGNER, who just departed, for their
work on this important issue.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes,’’ and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 502, the FIND Traf-
ficking Act, is an important bill in the
fight against human trafficking and
drug trafficking. There are millions of
victims trapped in forced sex exploi-
tation globally, and there were over
70,000 drug overdose deaths in the
United States in 2017.
This bill will study how virtual cur-
rencies and online marketplaces facili-
tate human trafficking and drug traf-
ficking, and it will study the partici-
pants who are abusing these mediums.
The research that results from this bill
will assist Congress in finding effective
measures to address these harmful, il-
licit trades.
Lives can be saved because of this
legislation. Once again, I thank Con-
gressman VARGAS and Congresswoman
WAGNER for introducing this bipartisan
legislation.
Again, this is the second bill that we
have here on the floor today where we
have bipartisan cooperation. They are
great bills that both sides can support.
Again, I am very grateful for the vision
of Congressman VARGAS and Congress-
woman WAGNER, in introducing this
legislation, and I urge support for the
bill.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 502.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGY
PROTECTION ACT
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 56) to establish an Independent
Financial Technology Task Force to
Combat Terrorism and Illicit Financ-
ing, to provide rewards for information
leading to convictions related to ter-
rorist use of digital currencies, to es-
tablish a Fintech Leadership in Innova-
tion and Financial Intelligence Pro-
gram to encourage the development of
tools and programs to combat terrorist
and illicit use of digital currencies, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 56
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Financial
Technology Protection Act’’.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that the Federal
Government should prioritize the investiga-
tion of terrorist and illicit use of new finan-
cial technology, including digital currencies.
SEC. 3. INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGY
TASK FORCE TO COMBAT TER-
RORISM AND ILLICIT FINANCING.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
the Independent Financial Technology Task
Force to Combat Terrorism and Illicit Fi-
nancing (the ‘‘Task Force’’), which shall con-
sist of—
(1) the Secretary of the Treasury, who
shall serve as the head of the Task Force;
(2) the Attorney General;
(3) the Director of National Intelligence;
(4) the Director of the Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network;
(5) the Director of the Secret Service;
(6) the Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation; and
(7) 6 individuals appointed by the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, in consultation with
the members of the Task Force described
under paragraphs (2) through (6), to rep-
resent the private sector (including the
banking industry, nonprofit groups, and
think tanks), with at least 2 of such individ-
uals having experience in the Fintech indus-
try.
(b) DUTIES.—The Task Force shall—
(1) conduct independent research on ter-
rorist and illicit use of new financial tech-
nologies, including digital currencies; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.018 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1228 January 28, 2019
(2) develop legislative and regulatory pro-
posals to improve counter-terrorist and
counter-illicit financing efforts.
(c) ANNUAL CONGRESSIONAL REPORT.—Not
later than 1 year after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, and annually thereafter,
the Task Force shall issue a report to the
Congress containing the findings and deter-
minations made by the Task Force in the
previous year and any legislative and regu-
latory proposals developed by the Task
Force.
SEC. 4. REWARDS FOR INFORMATION RELATED
TO TERRORIST USE OF DIGITAL
CURRENCIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Attorney
General, shall establish a fund to pay a re-
ward, not to exceed $450,000, to any person
who provides information leading to the con-
viction of an individual involved with ter-
rorist use of digital currencies.
(b) USE OF FINES AND FORFEITURES.—With
respect to fines and forfeitures related to the
conviction of an individual involved with
terrorist use of digital currencies, the Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall, subject to the
availability of appropriations made in ad-
vance—
(1) use such amounts to pay rewards under
this section related to such conviction; and
(2) with respect to any such amounts re-
maining after payments are made under
paragraphs (1) and (2), deposit such amounts
in the Fintech Leadership in Innovation and
Financial Intelligence Program.
SEC. 5. FINTECH LEADERSHIP IN INNOVATION
AND FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE
PROGRAM.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established a
program to be known as the ‘‘Fintech Lead-
ership in Innovation and Financial Intel-
ligence Program’’, which shall be funded as
provided under section 4(b)(2).
(b) INNOVATION GRANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall make grants for the develop-
ment of tools and programs to detect ter-
rorist and illicit use of digital currencies.
(2) ELIGIBLE RECIPIENTS.—The Secretary
may make grants under this subsection to
entities located in the United States, includ-
ing academic institutions, companies, non-
profit institutions, individuals, and any
other entities located in the United States
that the Secretary determines appropriate.
(3) ELIGIBLE PROJECTS.—With respect to
tools and programs described under para-
graph (1), in addition to grants for the devel-
opment of such tools and programs, the Sec-
retary may make grants under this sub-
section to carry out pilot programs using
such tools, the development of test cases
using such tools, and research related to
such tools.
(4) PREFERENCES.—In making grants under
this subsection, the Secretary shall give
preference to—
(A) technology that is nonproprietary or
that is community commons-based;
(B) computer code that is developed and re-
leased on an open source basis;
(C) tools that are proactive (such as meet-
ing regulatory requirements under ‘‘know
your customer’’ and anti-money laundering
requirements for any entity that has to com-
ply with U.S. Government regulations) vs.
reactive (such as aiding law enforcement or-
ganizations in catching illegal activity after
the fact); and
(D) tools and incentives that are on decen-
tralized platforms.
(5) OTHER REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) USE OF EXISTING GLOBAL STANDARDS.—
Any new technology developed with a grant
made under this subsection shall be based on
existing global standards, such as those de-
veloped by the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF) and the World Wide Web Con-
sortium (W3C).
(B) SUPPORTING EXISTING LAWS OR REGULA-
TIONS.—Tools and programs developed with a
grant made under this subsection shall be in
support of existing laws or regulations, in-
cluding the Bank Secrecy Act, and make ef-
forts to balance privacy and anti-money
laundering concerns.
(C) OPEN ACCESS REQUIREMENT.—Tools and
programs developed with a grant made under
this subsection shall be freely accessible and
usable by the public. This requirement may
be fulfilled by publicly availing application
programming interfaces or software develop-
ment kits.
SEC. 6. PREVENTING ROGUE AND FOREIGN AC-
TORS FROM EVADING SANCTIONS.
(a) REPORT AND STRATEGY WITH RESPECT
TO DIGITAL CURRENCIES AND OTHER RELATED
EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President, acting through the Secretary
of Treasury and in consultation with the At-
torney General, the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence, the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, and
the appropriate Federal banking agencies
and Federal functional regulators, shall—
(A) submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report that identifies
and describes the potential uses of digital
currencies and other related emerging tech-
nologies by states, non-state actors, and for-
eign terrorist organizations to evade sanc-
tions, finance terrorism, or launder mone-
tary instruments, and threaten United
States national security; and
(B) develop and submit to the appropriate
congressional committees a strategy to miti-
gate and prevent such illicit use of digital
currencies and other related emerging tech-
nologies.
(2) FORM; PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—
(A) FORM.—The report and strategy re-
quired under paragraph (1) shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form, but may contain
a classified annex.
(B) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The unclassified
portion of such report and strategy shall be
made available to the public and posted on
the internet website of the Department of
Treasury—
(i) in pre-compressed, easily downloadable
versions that are made available in all ap-
propriate formats; and
(ii) in machine-readable format, if applica-
ble.
(3) SOURCES OF INFORMATION.—In preparing
the report and strategy required under para-
graph (1), the President may utilize any
credible publication, database, web-based re-
source, and any credible information com-
piled by any government agency, nongovern-
mental organization, or other entity that is
made available to the President.
(b) BRIEFING.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of the Treasury shall brief the ap-
propriate congressional committees on the
implementation of the strategy required
under subsection (a).
SEC. 7. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
SEC. 8. DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Financial Services,
the Committee on the Judiciary, the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence, and
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs, the
Committee on the Judiciary, the Select
Committee on Intelligence, and the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
(2) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL BANKING AGEN-
CIES.—The term ‘‘appropriate Federal bank-
ing agencies’’ has the meaning given the
term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit In-
surance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
(3) BANK SECRECY ACT.—The term ‘‘Bank
Secrecy Act’’ means—
(A) section 21 of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act;
(B) chapter 2 of title I of Public Law 91–508;
and
(C) subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31,
United States Code.
(4) DIGITAL CURRENCY.—The term ‘‘digital
currency’’—
(A) means a digital representation of value
that—
(i) is used as a medium of exchange, unit of
account, or store of value; and
(ii) is not established legal tender, whether
or not denominated in established legal ten-
der; and
(B) does not include—
(i) a transaction in which a merchant
grants, as part of an affinity or rewards pro-
gram, value that cannot be taken from or ex-
changed with the merchant for legal tender,
bank credit, or digital currency; or
(ii) a digital representation of value issued
by or on behalf of a publisher and used solely
within an online game, game platform, or
family of games sold by the same publisher
or offered on the same game platform.
(5) FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR.—The
term ‘‘Federal functional regulator’’ has the
meaning given that term in section 509 of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6809).
(6) FOREIGN TERRORIST ORGANIZATION.—The
term ‘‘foreign terrorist organization’’ means
an organization that is designated as a for-
eign terrorist organization under section 219
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1189).
(7) TERRORIST.—The term ‘‘terrorist’’ in-
cludes a person carrying out domestic ter-
rorism or international terrorism (as such
terms are defined, respectively, under sec-
tion 2331 of title 18, United States Code).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MCHENRY) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days within which to
revise and extend their remarks on this
legislation and to insert extraneous
material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
b 1745
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA7.006 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1229
January 28, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I am so pleased that
this body will vote on H.R. 56, the Fi-
nancial Technology Protection Act,
which passed the House in the 115th
Congress. This bill would strengthen
and expand efforts to deter terrorists
and illicit abuses of financial tech-
nology through interagency coordina-
tion and research through collabora-
tion with private institutions and citi-
zens.
As stated in last year’s National
Money Laundering Risk Assessment
from the United States Department of
the Treasury, many cryptocurrencies
are being designed to make virtual cur-
rency transactions untraceable and are
increasingly being used by bad actors.
The talent and technological capa-
bilities to track these transactions
must keep up so the government can
identify terrorists, hackers, and other
criminals who try to hide their activi-
ties and proceeds using
cryptocurrencies and related ex-
changes.
This bill would establish a public-pri-
vate sector task force, a grant program
to encourage the development of large-
ly open-source tracking technology,
and a whistleblower reward program to
counter terrorist uses of digital cur-
rencies. Also, it would require the gov-
ernment to examine how state and
nonstate actors, including foreign ter-
rorist organizations, use these
cryptocurrencies to evade sanctions, fi-
nance terrorism, and launder money.
I thank Congressmen BUDD and
LYNCH for reintroducing this bipartisan
legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support it, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
56, the Financial Technology Protec-
tion Act.
Our number one priority is to ensure
the safety of the American people, es-
pecially from terrorists and terror or-
ganizations seeking to take away the
freedoms we hold dear. This bipartisan
legislation is a prime example of how
we can reach across the aisle and find
common ground in the fight against
terrorism as well as illicit finance.
H.R. 56 establishes an Independent
Financial Technology Task Force,
which will improve coordination be-
tween the private and public sectors in
order to research and develop tools to
combat terrorism and the illicit use of
financial technologies, including dig-
ital currencies.
Recent studies have found evidence
that terrorists, especially lone-wolf ac-
tors, use digital currencies. A public-
private task force as established
through this legislation can inform
Congress on the legislative and regu-
latory steps needed to stop these bad
actors.
Furthermore, this bipartisan bill
would incentivize individuals to come
forward with knowledge of possible ter-
rorist and illicit financing involving
digital currencies by offering monetary
rewards for information that leads to
successful convictions. A reward pro-
gram is just the kind of innovation in
policymaking that we need to stay a
step ahead of terrorists.
Last Congress, the Treasury Depart-
ment informed our committee that
using such unconventional tools could
be critical in generating useful intel-
ligence, and I applaud Mr. BUDD and
Mr. LYNCH for thinking creatively in
this process and listening to testimony
and taking that and putting that in
legislative form.
The threat of illicit use of digital
currencies is evolving, and policy-
makers must work together to find
best practices and solutions. That is
why this bipartisan bill is so impor-
tant.
Furthermore, I would add that dig-
ital currencies have enormous poten-
tial benefits. We want to understand
those benefits, but we also want to un-
derstand those costs involved, as pol-
icymakers. We want to be smart about
it. I think it is useful and helpful for us
to begin with understanding how we
stamp out bad actors and their use of
digital currencies before we move into
that next set of conversation about
how we properly enhance their utility
in our society.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank, again,
my colleague from Massachusetts (Mr.
LYNCH) for his work here and my col-
league from North Carolina, the great
north State, Mr. BUDD, first for their
relationship on this important policy-
making, and also their willingness to
work across the aisle in order to get
good legislation that is ensuring the
safety of the American people.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 56 as a commonsense, for-
ward-looking approach to combating
terrorism, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. LYNCH), who is a strong
leader and a strong voice on the Finan-
cial Services Committee and the lead
Democratic cosponsor of this bill.
Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 56.
First, I would like to thank our
chairwoman, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS), for her out-
standing leadership in bringing this
bill to the floor. I would also like to
thank the gentleman from North Caro-
lina (Mr. MCHENRY) for his energetic
support as well. In addition, I would
like to thank my distinguished col-
league, the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. BUDD), a colleague of
ours on the Financial Services Com-
mittee, for working in a bipartisan
fashion with me to get this bill to the
floor in a better way to safeguard our
emerging financial technology sector
against its illicit use by terrorists and
their financiers, money launderers,
computer hackers, and other criminal
actors.
I would also like to point out, as evi-
denced in the course of our ongoing
committee investigation to examine
terrorist and money laundering activi-
ties, that continued innovations in dig-
ital currencies, peer-to-peer financing,
mobile payments, and other emerging
financial technologies—or in today’s
lingo, fintech—have been met with in-
creasing efforts by malign actors to ex-
ploit these digital platforms and serv-
ices for terrorist and other criminal
purposes. According to the Combating
Terrorism Center At West Point:
‘‘Given the interest that terrorist orga-
nizations have shown in leveraging dig-
ital currencies, their use of such medi-
ums for conducting financial trans-
actions will only increase in the fu-
ture.’’
So the growing reliance on digital
currency for terrorist financing re-
cently manifested itself in the U.S. in
the form of a complex bank fraud
scheme perpetrated by a Long Island
woman, Zoobia Shahnaz, who pleaded
guilty in November of 2018 to providing
material support to a terrorist organi-
zation.
In an attempt to raise funds for the
Islamic State, Ms. Shahnaz fraudu-
lently obtained credit cards which she
used to purchase more than $62,000 in
bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.
After converting the currency to U.S.
dollars and transferring the funds to
her checking account, she proceeded to
execute wire transactions totaling over
$150,000 directed to top Islamic State-
affiliated individuals and shell entities
in Pakistan, China, and Turkey.
The illicit use of digital currency
systems has also extended to other
criminal enterprises, including
cybercrime. According to a six-count
indictment returned by a Federal
grand jury in Newark, New Jersey, two
Iranian nationals engaged in a nearly
3-year international extortion and
computer crime scheme involving the
deployment of so-called sam sam
ransomware against U.S. public and
private entities. Acting from inside
Iran, these cybercriminals forcibly
encrypted the computer systems of
more than 200 hospitals, municipali-
ties, and public institutions in the
United States, including the city of At-
lanta, the city of Newark, and the Col-
orado Department of Transportation.
In exchange for decryption keys, they
demanded ransom to be paid in bitcoin.
In total, the men collected over $6 mil-
lion in ransom payments, to date,
while causing more than $30 million in
losses to their U.S. victims.
Moreover, in July of last year, Spe-
cial Counsel Bob Mueller indicted 12
Russian intelligence officers stemming
from their involvement in cyber at-
tacks against U.S. individuals and enti-
ties leading up to the 2016 Presidential
election. According to the 11-count in-
dictment, in order to ‘‘facilitate the
purchase of infrastructure used in their
hacking activity . . . the defendants
conspired to launder the equivalent of
more than $95,000 through a web of
transactions structured to capitalize
on the perceived anonymity of
cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.022 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1230 January 28, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentleman from Massachusetts an
additional 1 minute.
Mr. LYNCH. So as we continue to
witness and embrace rapid digital inno-
vation in the traditional banking and
finance sector, it is urgent that govern-
ment and industry work together to
adopt and deploy regulatory protocols
such as blockchain technologies to pro-
tect the integrity of digital financial
systems against abuse.
To this end, our legislation, the Fi-
nancial Technology Protection Act,
would establish an independent task
force consisting of both public and pri-
vate stakeholders to address the threat
of exploitation of new financial tech-
nologies by terrorists and other malign
actors.
It would also authorize innovative
fintech grants to enhance the ability of
U.S. companies, academic institutions,
nonprofit organizations, and other pri-
vate-sector entities to develop new
tools designed to protect against crimi-
nal use of cryptocurrencies and en-
hance U.S. competitiveness in global
financial markets.
Moreover, the bill would authorize a
rewards program for individuals who
provide information leading to the con-
viction of those who use digital cur-
rency systems for terrorist purposes.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to support H.R.
56.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. BUDD), who is from the
great metropolis of Advance in Davie
County and who is a leader in fintech.
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank my friend, the ranking member,
for yielding, and I want to start by
congratulating him on his new role on
the Financial Services Committee. Cer-
tainly, he makes our home State, the
Old North State, proud.
I also want to congratulate the new
chair on her position as chair of our
committee, and I look forward to work-
ing with her in a bipartisan fashion
whenever I can.
I also have to thank my colead on
H.R. 56, the gentleman from Massachu-
setts (Mr. LYNCH), for his leadership on
illicit financing issues, and this bill in
particular. I always enjoy teaming up
with him, and I value his input and ex-
pertise on these issues. I am hopeful we
will see some movement on his
kleptocracy legislation soon, and I am
proud to be coleading that bill with the
gentleman.
Today, Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong
support of my bipartisan legislation,
the Financial Technology Protection
Act. I have said this many times be-
fore, but I will say it again because it
bears repeating: Illicit financing net-
works are the linchpin of any terrorist
group, criminal organization, or rogue
state’s operations.
As we move into an increasingly dig-
ital and virtual world, criminals and
terrorists will start to use new tech-
nologies that are available to them.
This shouldn’t shock anyone. Of
course, we all recognize the good that
comes with innovation and new tech-
nology, but there will always be bad
actors as well.
The bottom line is that the Federal
Government has to be one step ahead
of the illicit actors in this new space
without threatening technological in-
novation, and that is what this bill will
do. It will do this by giving the private
sector additional tools to protect their
new technology, hence the name for
the bill, the Financial Technology Pro-
tection Act.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 56 is a culmination
of months of work with outside groups
all over the political spectrum, from
national security groups that appre-
ciate the task force to trade and indus-
try groups that appreciate the new
tools being given to them that will
help them better protect their industry
and livelihood.
I think that this bill strikes an im-
pressive balance and is an example of
some bipartisan areas that we can
work together on in the 116th Congress.
Specifically, Mr. Speaker, my legisla-
tion will do the following things:
First, and perhaps most importantly,
H.R. 56 establishes the Fintech Leader-
ship in Innovation and Financial Intel-
ligence Program, which will be used for
grants and rewards in the fintech space
for ideas and programs to combat ter-
rorist use of digital currencies. These
technologies would be open access and
open source. Experts in the private sec-
tor can track illicit use of these cur-
rencies and perhaps do a better job of
leveraging their talent to create tools
and programs through the Fintech
Leadership and Financial Intelligence
Program. We need to give them the
ability to try, and that is exactly what
this bill does.
Secondly, it establishes the Inde-
pendent Financial Technology Task
Force to Combat Terrorism and Illicit
Financing, which will improve coordi-
nation and start conversations between
the private and public sectors for new
ways to combat illicit use. In my view,
industry and the Federal Government
should be coming together to find best
practices and solutions to stop this
new terrorist funding threat.
H.R. 56 includes language from H.R.
5227, the Preventing Rogue and Foreign
Actors from Evading Sanctions Act, in-
troduced last Congress by my friend,
MARK MEADOWS of North Carolina. This
language directs the Treasury Depart-
ment to develop a strategy that identi-
fies and describes the potential uses of
virtual currencies and other related
emerging technologies by states and
nonstate actors, terrorist organiza-
tions to evade sanctions, finance ter-
rorism, or launder monetary instru-
ments and threaten the United States’
national security. Again, the develop-
ment of a national strategy to combat
illicit use strikes me as common sense;
therefore, we are excited to have it in-
cluded in the bill and to have Mr.
MEADOWS’ support.
Finally, this Budd-Lynch legislation
establishes a targeted rewards program
for information leading to the capture
of terrorists or illicit actors involved
with terror digital currency networks.
The government should be encouraging
individuals with knowledge of illicit
use of virtual currencies to come for-
ward through the offerings of rewards
for successful convictions.
Here is the bottom line: H.R. 56 is
legislation that sparks private-sector
innovation to deal with terror and il-
licit financing when it comes to virtual
currencies, which ultimately benefits
the underlying technology, the
blockchain.
b 1800
I think that Congress should be pro-
moting programs and technologies that
give industry the tools they need to
save their technology and industry
from illicit use and, hopefully, save
them from further negotiation down
the road.
I am very excited that this bill is up
for a vote in the House today and has
such strong bipartisan support.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of my
bipartisan legislation and, once again,
thank everyone who has had a hand in
bringing this to the floor. It is an ex-
citing day when we can focus on
fintech, and I am hopeful for the future
of this committee and the 116th Con-
gress.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the right to close.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, three for three—the
House Financial Services Committee
comes out with the first three bills,
and they are bipartisan. I would hope
the House would adopt them tonight.
I think this is a great first step in
this long road of legislating that I
think we can be about in the Financial
Services Committee. The chairwoman
has shown that will, that interest, that
inclination to work together where we
can, where we can achieve consensus
across the aisle.
I mean that as a compliment. In the
politics of today, when you are work-
ing across the aisle, it seems as though
that is dealt as an insult in some fac-
tions.
I know that Chairwoman WATERS has
worked intently to get to the position
of chairing this committee, for a little
longer than I have to be the ranking
member of the committee; but, as she
will show me on opening day of the
House Financial Services Committee,
she has the gavel and I do not, but
where we can work together, I am hon-
ored to be able to do so.
I want to thank my colleague, Mr.
BUDD, for working so intently on finan-
cial innovation and on fintech as well
as cryptocurrencies, which are of great
interest to him, and I appreciate Mr.
LYNCH being engaged in this subject
matter as well.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.023 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1231
January 28, 2019
I look forward to more bipartisan
legislating coming out of this com-
mittee as well as a number of more in-
teresting activities that I am sure will
be a part of this.
I am now informed that we do have
one Member to close. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. RIGGLEMAN), a new Mem-
ber who has a great deal of experience
in national security.
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, spe-
cial thanks to the chair and to the
ranking member for their leadership on
this. I would also like to thank Rep-
resentative BUDD for sponsoring this
bipartisan legislation and thank my
colleagues across the aisle, Representa-
tives LYNCH and SOTO, for their impor-
tant work on this bill as well.
While I may be new to Congress, I am
all too familiar with terrorist threats
and the danger they pose to the safety
and security of our Nation. I served my
country in the Air Force as an intel-
ligence officer and worked to track
down terrorists after 9/11. I also sup-
ported ‘‘follow the money’’ analysis
and operations related to terrorist fi-
nancing.
One of the key components that al-
lows terrorists to organize and execute
their missions is financing. As finan-
cial technology, or fintech, evolves, so
do the opportunities for criminals to
take advantage of the financial system.
H.R. 56 calls for financial regulators,
law enforcement, and private-sector
experts to come together to create the
Fintech Task Force to Combat Ter-
rorism and Illicit Finance. This task
force is charged with developing inno-
vative methods to track, prevent, and
prosecute terrorists that use digital
currencies and other financial tech-
nologies to advance their agenda.
Technology is integral to everyday
life for consumers, businesses, and gov-
ernments, which is why it is critical
that experts from law enforcement and
the private sector come together to
protect our financial system from ter-
rorists and other bad actors.
Mr. Speaker, for these reasons and
many others, I strongly support this
bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank
Representative BUDD and Representa-
tive LYNCH for the work that they have
put forth on this legislation, and I
would like to take a moment to thank
Mr. LYNCH for not only this legislation,
but all of the efforts that he has put
forth on the Financial Services Com-
mittee that have benefited this Con-
gress and our country.
Let me just say that I rise again to
encourage my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle to vote for H.R. 56, the Fi-
nancial Technology Protection Act.
This bipartisan bill aims to improve
our efforts to deter terrorists and
criminal abusers of financial tech-
nology, including cryptocurrencies,
through its support of interagency co-
ordination and research and through
collaboration with private institutions
and citizens.
The measure created by this legisla-
tion will give the U.S. a better under-
standing of how bad actors, including
terrorists, use cryptocurrencies to
evade sanctions, finance terrorism, and
launder money. These state and
nonstate actors are always looking for
new ways to get around our protective
and investigative measures, and this
bill will help us to stay at least one
step ahead.
So, again, my sincere gratitude and
thanks to Congressmen BUDD and
LYNCH for reintroducing this bill,
which was passed by this body in the
last Congress.
I would like to, again, follow up on
statements that were made by the
ranking member, Mr. MCHENRY, to re-
mind everyone that the first three bills
of this Congress that have been intro-
duced by the Financial Services Com-
mittee are bipartisan bills where we
have shown that we are willing to pro-
vide leadership and send a message to
all of the Members of Congress that we
have to work hard to try and get good,
viable, strong legislation through this
Congress, working together in ways
that perhaps we have not done before.
I am very pleased and proud to stand
here as the chairperson of the Finan-
cial Services Committee, helping to
make sure that the first three bills
that we introduce are bipartisan and
urging my support for these bills and
this bill now that it is before you.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 56, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
TAKING ADDITIONAL STEPS TO
ADDRESS THE NATIONAL EMER-
GENCY WITH RESPECT TO VEN-
EZUELA—MESSAGE FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–8)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA)
(50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), I hereby report
that I have issued an Executive Order
with respect to Venezuela that takes
additional steps with respect to the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13692 of March 8, 2015, and relied
upon for additional steps taken in Ex-
ecutive Order 13808 of August 24, 2017,
Executive Order 13827 of March 19, 2018,
Executive Order 13835 of May 21, 2018,
and Executive Order 13850 of November
1, 2018.
The Executive Order I have issued ac-
counts for the swearing in of a legiti-
mate Interim President of Venezuela,
and addresses actions by persons affili-
ated with the illegitimate Maduro re-
gime, including human rights viola-
tions and abuses in response to anti-
Maduro protests, arbitrary arrest and
detention of anti-Maduro protestors,
curtailment of press freedom, harass-
ment of political opponents, and con-
tinued attempts to undermine the In-
terim President of Venezuela and un-
dermine the Venezuelan National As-
sembly. The Executive Order amends
subsection (d) of section 6 of Executive
Order 13692, subsection (d) of section 3
of Executive Order 13808, subsection (d)
of section 3 of Executive Order 13827,
subsection (d) of section 3 of Executive
Order 13835, and subsection (d) of sec-
tion 6 of Executive Order 13850, to read:
‘‘(d) the term ‘‘Government of Ven-
ezuela’’ includes the state and Govern-
ment of Venezuela, any political sub-
division, agency, or instrumentality
thereof, including the Central Bank of
Venezuela and Petroleos de Venezuela,
S.A. (PDVSA), any person owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly, by
the foregoing, and any person who has
acted or purported to act directly or
indirectly for or on behalf of, any of
the foregoing, including as a member
of the Maduro regime.’’
I am enclosing a copy of the Execu-
tive Order I have issued.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, January 25, 2019.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 6 o’clock and 10 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. KILDEE) at 6 o’clock and
30 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motion to suspend the rules and pass
H.R. 624, by the yeas and nays;
Motion to suspend the rules and pass
H.R. 502, by the yeas and nays; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.025 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1232 January 28, 2019
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
PROMOTING TRANSPARENT
STANDARDS FOR CORPORATE IN-
SIDERS ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 624) to require the Securities
and Exchange Commission to carry out
a study of Rule 10b5–1 trading plans,
and for other purposes, on which the
yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Connecticut (Mr.
HIMES) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 413, nays 3,
not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 52]
YEAS—413
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—3
Amash Biggs Massie
NOT VOTING—16
Armstrong
Bass
Davis, Danny K.
Frankel
Jones
Kind
Lowey
Payne
Porter
Ratcliffe
Richmond
Roby
Rush
Sensenbrenner
Tipton
Wilson (FL)
b 1857
Messrs. AMASH and BIGGS changed
their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ
changed her vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
FIGHT ILLICIT NETWORKS AND
DETECT TRAFFICKING ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 502) to require the Comp-
troller General of the United States to
carry out a study on how virtual cur-
rencies and online marketplaces are
used to buy, sell, or facilitate the fi-
nancing of goods or services associated
with sex trafficking or drug traf-
ficking, and for other purposes, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 412, nays 3,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 53]
YEAS—412
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.029 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1233
January 28, 2019
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—3
Amash Gaetz Massie
NOT VOTING—17
Armstrong
Bass
Davis, Danny K.
Frankel
Jones
Kind
Lowey
Payne
Porter
Ratcliffe
Richmond
Roby
Rush
Sensenbrenner
Tipton
Waltz
Wilson (FL)
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1905
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 234, nays
170, answered ‘‘present’’ 2, not voting
26, as follows:
[Roll No. 54]
YEAS—234
Adams
Allred
Amodei
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Buck
Budd
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Cuellar
Cummings
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kinzinger
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Matsui
McCarthy
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Pascrell
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Posey
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rose (NY)
Roybal-Allard
Ruppersberger
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Titus
Tlaib
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wexton
Yarmuth
NAYS—170
Abraham
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amash
Babin
Balderson
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Cárdenas
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Casten (IL)
Chabot
Cheney
Cisneros
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Costa
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crow
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gibbs
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Horsford
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Keating
Kelly (MS)
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luria
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCaul
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meng
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moulton
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Peters
Peterson
Rice (NY)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Ruiz
Scalise
Schrier
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Steube
Suozzi
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Walberg
Walden
Waters
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—2
Gohmert Tonko
NOT VOTING—26
Armstrong
Bass
Blumenauer
Davis, Danny K.
Flores
Foster
Frankel
Harder (CA)
Houlahan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA7.008 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1234 January 28, 2019
Jones
Kind
Lowey
McBath
Meuser
Payne
Porter
Pressley
Ratcliffe
Richmond
Roby
Rush
Schrader
Sensenbrenner
Tipton
Walker
Wilson (FL)
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CUNNINGHAM) (during the vote). There
are 2 minutes remaining.
b 1913
So the Journal was approved.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
f
RANKING CERTAIN MEMBERS OF
CERTAIN STANDING COMMIT-
TEES OF THE HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, by direc-
tion of the Republican Conference, I
offer a privileged resolution and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 80
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and are hereby, ranked as follows on
the following standing committees of the
House of Representatives:
COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION AND LABOR: Mr.
Walker (to rank immediately after Mr.
Banks).
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY: (Mr.
McCaul (to rank immediately after Mr. King
of New York); and Mr. Higgins of Louisiana
(to rank immediately after Mr. Walker).
Ms. CHENEY (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
that the resolution be considered as
read and printed in the RECORD.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Wyoming?
There was no objection.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
NO MORE GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWNS
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
last Friday the 25th of January, 2019,
was a day of celebration for 800,000 Fed-
eral workers. They joined me at the
Federal office building which my office
is in, and we stood together listening
to their pain and their stories of trying
to survive. Many said: We don’t want
to be held hostage again.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to say that
no Federal employee over a policy
question should not be paid. And as we
have been saying, open the government
and pay the workers. That same day, I
went out to visit TSO officers and air
traffic controllers.
When I came back today, I stopped to
speak to air traffic controllers, and I
thanked them and said, America now
knows for all of the Federal workers
what great patriots and servants of the
Nation that they are. We must thank
them.
I want to say to the officer who
asked me about his pay being frozen
that I hope Republicans will join
Democrats in raising that pay to 2.6
percent. This is my answer to you, that
we will pay you, and we will increase
your pay.
As I close, Mr. Speaker, I want to
offer sympathy and concern for five
Houston police officers who have just
been shot. I offer my prayers and con-
cern and sympathy for their families,
and a speedy recovery during this time.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
OFFICER SEAN TUDER
(Mr. BYRNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
remember the life of an Alabama hero,
Officer Sean Tuder, of the Mobile Po-
lice Department. Officer Tuder was
tragically killed on January 20 while
conducting an investigation.
Officer Tuder joined the Mobile Po-
lice Department in 2016. He was named
Officer of the Month for his exceptional
work in improving public safety. As an-
other sign of his commitment to serv-
ice, Sean was a member of the Alabama
National Guard.
Mr. Speaker, Officer Tuder was the
second Alabama police officer killed in
the line of duty this month.
Police officers are the peacekeepers
of society. They go to work every day
in an effort to keep our families in our
community safe. Sean’s story reminds
us that we should never take their sac-
rifices for granted.
To Sean’s wife, Krissy, and his entire
family, know that you are in our pray-
ers and will continue to be in our pray-
ers in the months and years ahead.
We will never allow Sean’s legacy of
servant leadership and sacrifice to be
forgotten. May the words written in
Matthew’s Gospel comfort all of us:
Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall
be called the sons of God.
f
STUDENT LOAN REPAYMENT
ASSISTANCE
(Ms. BROWNLEY of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr.
Speaker, it is simply unacceptable that
the Nation’s total student loan debt
has surpassed credit card debt in our
country. Student loan debt can follow
a person for life, making it more dif-
ficult to raise a family, start a busi-
ness, buy a home, or save for retire-
ment.
That is why I introduced the Student
Loan Repayment Assistance Act which
will help college graduates more easily
repay their student loan debts by
incentivizing more employers to offer
student loan repayment assistance.
This bill will help alleviate the finan-
cial and emotional burden of a student
loan debt, and help employers attract
and retain skilled, qualified employees.
It is a win-win for all.
In Congress, I will continue to fight
for a strong middle class where every-
one can achieve the American Dream.
f
REMEMBERING THE SPACE
SHUTTLE CHALLENGER AND CREW
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, 33 years ago today, we
lost the Space Shuttle Challenger.
I rise to remember and honor the
seven crew members whose passion for
exploration has inspired generations of
Americans.
On January 28, 1986, the 25th mission
of the United States space shuttle pro-
gram was set to transport cargo and
crew into orbit. Tragically, the mission
was cut short over the skies of Cape
Canaveral.
More than three decades later, we re-
member the sacrifice of each crew
member: Dick Scobee, Michael Smith,
Ellison Onizuka, Judith Resnik, Ron-
ald McNair, Gregory Jarvis, and
Christa McAuliffe. Their legacy is for-
ever enshrined in our Nation’s Capital
with the Space Shuttle Challenger Me-
morial at Arlington National Ceme-
tery.
As President Reagan said in his ad-
dress to the Nation: ‘‘The Challenger
crew was pulling us into the future,
and we’ll continue to follow them.’’
Mr. Speaker, may our American curi-
osity for space exploration never fade,
and as we continue to seek farther ho-
rizons, it is my hope that we fuel the
interest of future generations.
Today, we honor and remember the
brave crew of the Space Shuttle Chal-
lenger.
f
THOUGHTS AND PRAYERS FOR
CONGRESSMAN WALTER JONES
(Mr. COHEN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, today the
House of Representatives has a Member
in great distress, and it causes all of us
who are aware of that—and I think
most of us are—sorrow.
Representative WALTER JONES is the
Congressman from the Third Congres-
sional District of North Carolina. He is
a man of courage, a man who speaks
truth to power, and has been a Member
of this body since 1995.
Representative JONES has a condition
that has caused him to go into hospice
care. He likely will not be joining us on
this floor. But he is a man who I have
had the great privilege of knowing, be-
cause he is a good human being and an
honorable man, who made a mistake in
a vote for the Iraq war and after he re-
alized that that was a mistake, having
voted for that war, he voted against
war and conflicts ever after, and wrote
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA7.009 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1235
January 28, 2019
personal notes to the families of the
victims of military deaths.
He supported veterans. He supported
our country. He was a man of con-
science. He still is. Our thoughts are
with him, and I thank him for his serv-
ice and his friendship.
Mr. Speaker, I say to my friend: Fair
winds and following seas.
f
CELEBRATING THE RETIREMENT
OF J. GENE FAILE
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to recognize J. Gene
Faile for his outstanding career and his
impending retirement after 30 years of
dedication to healthcare administra-
tion.
A veteran of the U.S. Air Force, Faile
began his career at Yokota Air Base in
Japan. Afterwards, he earned degrees
in finance and business, and became a
sought-after hospital administrator
and advisory board member around the
country.
For 10 years, Faile has served as the
President of Wake Forest Baptist
Health-Wilkes Medical Center in my
district, championing excellent patient
care and strengthening the hospital’s
finances. During his tenure, Wilkes
County has been blessed by his gen-
erosity and leadership, including with
the March for Babies, Wilkes Commu-
nity College, Wilkes Chamber of Com-
merce, and The Health Foundation,
Inc.
Although he will be missed in the
Fifth District, I wish him and his wife,
Peggy, a wonderful retirement with his
family in Raleigh.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JUAN
PABLO DUARTE
(Mr. ESPAILLAT asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of Juan Pablo
Duarte, the founding father of the Do-
minican Republic. Duarte was instru-
mental in the war of Dominican inde-
pendence, and he fought for a liberal
democracy.
January 26, this past Saturday,
marked Duarte’s birthday, a day that
is celebrated in the Dominican Repub-
lic as a national holiday, and
Dominicans celebrated it across the
world.
Last week, I introduced H. Res. 64,
which supports the ideals of Juan
Pablo Duarte Day, and urges the rec-
ognition of this day in the United
States, as many Dominican Americans
celebrate here as well.
This resolution is one of three I in-
troduced last week to mark the begin-
ning of Dominican Heritage Month to
honor the Dominican American com-
munity in my district and across the
country.
Mr. Speaker, I ask that my many col-
leagues join me in recognizing this im-
portant day and the contributions of
Dominican Americans across the
United States.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JACK T.
BRINKLEY, SR.
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to remember the life of
Young Harris College trustee emeritus
and former United States Representa-
tive from the Third District of Georgia,
Mr. Jack T. Brinkley, Sr., who passed
away on January 23 at the age of 88.
Mr. Brinkley was a true public serv-
ant who quietly helped numerous indi-
viduals. Before his 16-year career as a
Member of Congress, he taught school,
piloted planes in the Air Force, and
moved to west Georgia to be close to
his wife’s family.
After serving in Congress, he re-
turned home to work in his family law
firm. Even with his low profile, Mr.
Brinkley did significant work. He in-
troduced over 650 bills, most of which
involved veterans. He had a gift for re-
membering names and key qualities of
his constituents, but most impor-
tantly, Mr. Brinkley was a genuine,
selfless, high-character public servant
who will be deeply missed.
My thoughts and prayers are with his
family and friends during this time.
f
b 1930
INTERNATIONAL HOLOCAUST
REMEMBRANCE DAY
(Ms. SHALALA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, yester-
day, January 27, we observed Inter-
national Holocaust Remembrance Day.
This day marks the 74th anniversary of
the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau.
Today I rise because we have a sacred
duty to remember the lives lost to Na-
zism, an abominable evil.
We must remember so that we never
forget.
We must never forget the events of
the Holocaust so that we may stand to-
gether against anti-Semitism and
against any such acts leveraged in the
future against the Jewish people and
all people everywhere.
f
CONGRATULATING COACH KEN
LEONARD
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate
my friend, Ken Leonard, head coach of
the Sacred Heart-Griffin Cyclones, for
being nominated by the Chicago Bears
for the 2018 Don Shula NFL High
School Coach of the Year Award. This
year, he follows his son, Derek, who
was nominated last year.
Coach Leonard was nominated for
this prestigious award because of his
leadership, dedication to the commu-
nity, and his commitment to the
health and safety of his players and
their on-field success. This past year,
Coach Leonard became the all-time
leader for victories in Illinois high
school coaching history—ironically,
beating his son’s very good Rochester
team to get that record.
As the head coach since 1984, Coach
Leonard has an outstanding 379 win
and 74 career loss record, including five
State championships in eight title
game appearances. He has spent count-
less hours on the field, in classrooms,
and in chapels teaching players about
character and helping prepare them for
a very successful future.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Ken for
his service to the Springfield commu-
nity over the years and congratulate
him, his family, and his team on this
great honor.
f
WE ASK GOD’S BLESSINGS ON
CONGRESSMAN WALTER JONES
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise
this evening to join my remarks along
with those of Congressman STEVE
COHEN of Tennessee to reach our be-
loved colleague, WALTER JONES of the
Third District of North Carolina, and
his family as they walk through these
difficult days. I wish to say thank you
to the people of North Carolina for
sending such an honorable and dig-
nified gentleman to this House to serve
for over two decades, 12 terms.
I can remember how hard WALTER
worked when Hurricane Florence hit—
his district includes the Outer Banks of
North Carolina—and spending his time
with the citizens of his district.
I can’t count the number of times he
talked about Marine Corps Base Camp
Lejeune, and I can’t think of anyone
who fought harder for veterans or
those in our military than WALTER
JONES. He is such a man of conscience
and such a moral man. I know that the
weight of this country’s concerns fell
on him very heavily.
WALTER, if you are listening to our
words this evening, know that we walk
with you in spirit. We know you are a
man of deep faith, and we know that
that faith will carry you through all of
the most difficult shoals of life.
We miss you very much on this floor,
but we can see your presence and feel
your presence. It lingers and lasts
among us. Know that we walk with
you.
We hope you can hear our words, and
we ask God to bless you, to bless your
family, and to give you His everlasting
strength.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.037 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1236 January 28, 2019
HONORING THE LIFE OF DICK
SHELLENBERGER
(Mr. SMUCKER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise to honor Dick Shellenberger, a
wonderful man who dedicated his life
to serving Lancaster County.
Dick recently passed away and left
an enormous legacy in our community.
I attended a memorial in his honor on
Friday, and you could tell how well-
loved he was in the community by so
many people who showed up to pay
their respects.
Dick first ran a dairy farm with his
father. He was a graduate of Lancaster
Mennonite High School. He worked for
Kreider Farms and established the
farm’s ice cream business, operating its
four family restaurants, two dairy
stores, and wholesale milk business. He
then was a restaurateur, but he eventu-
ally became Lancaster County Com-
missioner.
He was a strong proponent of farm-
land preservation because he knew the
importance of agriculture and farming
in our community. He served on many
community boards and on his church
boards and was always looking for
ways to give back.
He is survived by his wife, Pam; a
son, Richie; a daughter, Missy; and his
six grandchildren.
Dick’s legacy will undoubtedly live
on in our community. We are grateful
for his service to Lancaster County. We
also know that he is in a better place,
but we will certainly miss him here. It
is humbling to be able to honor his life.
f
CELEBRATING MAYOR ALLEN
OWEN
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate Mayor Allen Owen and his
almost 40 years of faithful service to a
great city in Texas-22, Missouri City.
Allen served as the mayor for the
better part of 20 years. He always led in
a crisis, like the recovery from Hurri-
cane Harvey, one Memorial Day flood,
and two tax day floods. He even cut the
locks at a gas station to give fuel to
first responders during those floods.
Allen and his wife of 51 years, Jane,
have raised three amazing kids in Mis-
souri City.
I will close with praise from a Texas
icon, the great Texas philosopher and
the coach of the Houston Oilers, Bum
Phillips:
Allen Owen may not be in a class by him-
self, but whatever class he is in, it don’t take
long to call the roll.
Thank you, Al and Jane. May you al-
ways have fair winds and following
seas.
KANSAS DAY
(Mr. WATKINS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Speaker, tomor-
row is Kansas Day. As Kansas cele-
brates her 158th birthday, I would like
to take a minute to celebrate her.
Our State motto is ‘‘Ad Astra per
Aspera,’’ through hardships to the
stars. This motto captures our State
and the spirit of our people.
We have had frontiersmen, space ex-
plorers, and leaders in agriculture and
digital technology.
We have won sports championships
and Academy Awards.
Leaders like Eisenhower, Dole, Rob-
erts, and Pompeo have helped make the
world a better place.
From our history of Bleeding Kansas
to Brown v. Board of Education, we are
never afraid to fight for what is right.
For 158 years, Kansas, you look
great.
f
BORDER SECURITY
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to commend President Trump for
coming together with this 3-week deal
that will allow us to open the govern-
ment, as it has, and continue the dis-
cussion on the border security issue we
so desperately need.
It is time to put up or shut up. This
has been a bipartisan effort in the past
with previous legislation to build the
border fence and a lot of rhetoric and a
lot of talk by the other side of the aisle
supporting a controlled border and
legal immigration.
It is time to go ahead and do it—no
more talk, no more obfuscation, and no
more pointing fingers in the other di-
rection. We need to have border secu-
rity in a bipartisan way, as it has been
done in the past.
Who cares that it is President Trump
or someone else in the White House
only because it is a political fight?
This is something our Nation needs.
So, again, 3 weeks to get it done, 3
weeks to come together and acknowl-
edge that a barrier system on our bor-
der is one important component of
many to have a secure border and allow
legal immigration in this country.
f
CBO REPORT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Ari-
zona (Mr. SCHWEIKERT) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
minority leader.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, I
am going to try to do a couple of
things tonight, and some of this is ac-
tually to answer some correspondence
we had into our office when we did part
of our, we will call it, unified theory
presentation a couple weeks ago on
what we see happening.
I have two key points I really want
to try to drill home tonight. I am going
to say them over and over, and I am
going to use a number of different
slides to talk about them.
Mr. Speaker, one is, it is obvious.
You see what is happening in our man-
datory spending, but that mandatory
spending is substantially driven by our
demographics. We are getting older as
a society, and we need to just deal with
that. That is not Republican or Demo-
cratic; it is basically math.
Those of us from the baby boom—
there are 74 million of us—the peak of
the baby boom, I believe, right now, is
about 63 years old. A lot of the reforms
should have happened a decade ago.
Now it is almost too late.
So how do we deal with the fact of
the matter? We are going to see a num-
ber of slides of what is about to happen
in our mandatory spending curve and
what that means to the financial im-
pact of our debt and our economic
growth in our society, because much of
the debate you will see behind these
microphones, I believe, is actually
missing the point.
We joke in our office that D.C. is sub-
stantially a math-free zone. We are
going to try to actually do some math.
The reason we put up this slide is
very, very simple: just to visualize it.
It is about a year old.
This new CBO report update came
out today. We are grinding through it.
We have a couple slides here from that.
But just to visualize, this is 1965, and
that is 2018.
Mr. Speaker, do you see the red area
on the 2018? That is to give you a sense
that we don’t vote on that. That is on
autopilot. The blue area is actually the
defense spending; that is about 15 per-
cent. The green is basically everything
else.
So remember, 70 to 75 percent of all
of the spending around here is on auto-
pilot. I am going to show you, Mr.
Speaker, in a number of these slides
how much of that is actually really
based on our demographics.
This slide is very powerful—and I am
going to bend it just a bit to try to un-
derstand.
Now, this is done by the Manhattan
Institute. It was done about a year ago.
So we are going to try to get the num-
bers updated.
Now, this is not adjusted for infla-
tion. So when it says what is causing
an $84 trillion deficit, functionally,
over the next 29, 30 years, you can take
off about one-third if you want to do
the inflation adjustment in your head.
But when you look at it, the point is
up here. You see the first bar; that is
Social Security. The middle bar there
is Medicare, and the third bar is every-
thing else.
Mr. Speaker, you will notice every-
thing else over the 30 years is actually
positive in its impact on revenues, but
Social Security and Medicare are the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.040 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1237
January 28, 2019
vast, functionally, almost all of that
$84 trillion of debt.
It is demographics, it is math, and we
need to deal with it, because as a soci-
ety and as a government, we have an
obligation to keep our promises. These
are earned benefits. But how do we do
it?
We are going to talk about how we
keep our promises in the last part of
these slides.
But, once again, I am trying to make
the point that the scale of the problem,
if you have a political person, an acad-
emician—anyone—and they are talking
about the future of this country, if
they are not talking about what is hap-
pening to us demographically and our
entitlement promises, then they are
not telling you the truth, Mr. Speaker,
because this is going to drive all policy
around it.
Now, I will have lots of conversations
with folks back home in Arizona—
which is just beautiful; I think it was
74 degrees today in Scottsdale—and I
will get: Well, I paid into the program.
And you did, and we have a social
contract with you on those benefits,
but we do need to understand some of
the actual math.
b 1945
This is sort of the average person
who will be moving into retirement
over this decade. For Social Security,
you will have paid in about $540,000 in
Social Security taxes. You are going to
get about $616,000 back out.
Those two are fairly in balance, even
though all that money that went to the
trust fund then is loaned to the Federal
Government, and then the Federal
Government—actually, Treasury—puts
special T-notes. The last time I
checked, they were paying like 3 per-
cent, so they had a reasonable rate of
return.
But the one that causes most of the
deficit over the next decade, two dec-
ades, three decades, you look at Medi-
care. The average person will have paid
about $140,000 in Medicare taxes. They
are going to get $422,000. So 140 in, 422
out.
When you see that number, it is an
understanding that we need to do the
things that would bring price disrup-
tion to the delivery of those health
services. If not, think of this: 74 mil-
lion baby boomers—74 million baby
boomers—and, on average, we will have
put in $140,000 in Medicare taxes, and
we are going to get $400-some thousand
in benefits back out. The math is just
devastating for our economic future.
This is a brand-new slide. This is in
today’s CBO report. The reason I had
this one printed is to understand, in 9
years, according to today’s CBO re-
port—9 years—50 percent of all Federal
spending, not counting interest, just 50
percent of all Federal spending, will be
to seniors.
Just understand what that means. I
believe, in the early 1970s, for every
dollar that went to seniors, $4 to $5
went to our children. It has, obviously,
more than doubled in the other direc-
tion.
It is just demographics. We are get-
ting older. Birth rates have substan-
tially collapsed in the country.
But this is in today’s CBO report,
just to get our heads around it. The
dark brown you see on top, that is
those who are 65 and older. What is
more of a rust color, those are 20 to 64,
just to give you an idea of the popu-
lation differences. Yet, the brown part,
in 9 years, is 50 percent of all Federal
spending. We need to understand that
it is demographics.
Another slide, just to sort of make
the point here, if you were to go from
2008 to 2028, take those years, 91 per-
cent—91 percent—of the increased
spending of the Federal Government is,
functionally, interest, Social Security,
and the healthcare—we will call it
healthcare entitlements, healthcare
delivery. That can be Social Security.
It can be Medicare. It could be Indian
Health Service.
Think of that. Ninety-one percent of
all the spending growth from 2008 to
2028, over those 20 years: Social Secu-
rity, interest, healthcare entitlements.
Ninety-one percent. It gives you a
sense of where the spending is.
Yet, we will have hours and hours of
debate on this floor over this coming
year on trivial issues, because this is
really difficult. This is hard. No one
really wants to talk about it because
the math is difficult. There are lots of
zeroes.
The elements of it mean some very
difficult things for someone like me
who believes one of the greatest issues
of our time is retirement security. Yet,
91 percent of the increased spending
from this Federal Government over
that 20-year period: Social Security, in-
terest, healthcare entitlements.
Now, this is a brand-new slide. We
are going to, over the next couple
weeks, come back and do some more
analysis on the CBO report today, the
Congressional Budget Office report,
and what it is telling us.
This is a little awkward. We have
never printed one this direction. I hope
it works. This is directly from today’s
information, the budgetary policy re-
lease.
See those lines? The only reason I
put that up is to understand, whether
it be what you all think of as the So-
cial Security trust fund, the Social Se-
curity disability trust fund, or the
Medicare trust fund, you will notice, in
the next couple years, all of them go
below zero.
We need to understand the impacts,
that demographics spending promises
have now caught up with us, and we are
emptying out those trust funds.
This one is a good one. If you are like
I am—and I know I am blessed to have
some folks who correspond with me
after we do these presentations. They
have a fixation on: Well, what is the
spending as a percentage of the size of
the economy?
In many ways, when you have some-
one throw out a debt number, the num-
ber that is most important to most
economists, actually, is: How much is
that dollar amount as a percentage of
the size of the economy? That is why
there is this fixation for many of us
here that we have to grow the size of
this economy, because that is how we
can digest the amounts of debt that
are, demographically, about to come to
us.
Do you see this number out here,
that 15.1? Understand that is, function-
ally, 9 budget years from now. That is
saying, 15.1—and this is from, I believe,
today’s CBO report. It is saying, in 9
years, 15.1 percent of the entire econ-
omy will be Federal Government man-
datory spending and 5 percent will be
discretionary. Remember, discre-
tionary is things like the military,
parks, healthcare research.
All those things will be 5 percent,
and 3 percent of the entire economy’s
value will be what we are spending just
to cover interest. Add those together,
and you start to understand: In 9 years,
Federal spending, we are over 23 per-
cent of the entire GDP.
What should blow off this page to
you: In 9 years, over 15 percent of the
entire Nation’s economy is just cov-
ering the mandatory spending here.
That is under today’s policies.
Now, in the next couple weeks, we
will do more of this, and I am going to
find a way to print some boards that
become more digestible, because I will
get calls that will say: Well, David,
just do this. Lift the caps on Social Se-
curity.
Well, let’s look at some of those
numbers. If we come over here and
start to say to eliminate FICA caps
from the 15 percent payroll tax, so just
lift the caps, you have to understand
that it covers 0.78 percent of the 6-plus
percent of GDP shortfall.
These are all the pop solutions that I
hear often from my friends on the left.
You start to add them up, and they
cover only fractions of the avalanche of
debt and spending that are coming at
us.
We will do some more breakdowns on
these over the next couple weeks, just
to understand where the real math is,
because we have a classic problem
around here. Our rhetoric doesn’t actu-
ally fit our calculators.
Let’s walk through some of the other
things that are going on. I have repeat-
edly come behind this microphone and
talked about something we in our of-
fice refer to as the unified theory. I be-
lieve there are, functionally, five
things out there we have to do to sus-
tain the future and survive, those of us
who are baby boomers, and our earned
promises, our entitlements.
The first one we talk about is: What
are you going to do to maximize eco-
nomic growth? What are you going to
do to keep people in the labor force?
This one here that I put up, this is a
chart of what we call labor force par-
ticipation.
We were all joyful when we found out
in December that we crossed over 63
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.041 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1238 January 28, 2019
percent participation. But, remember,
it was only like a decade ago that we
were close to 67 percent of our popu-
lation participating in the labor force,
working.
There is a great article today, if you
have a chance to look at it, in the Wall
Street Journal, talking about, in this
incredibly robust job market we have
today, where we have, functionally,
hundreds of thousands—millions, if you
actually do the average out—of posi-
tions looking for workers, that we are
starting to see something that is really
good for society. Those who have had a
rough time are moving into the labor
force. Those who have designations of
having handicaps, maybe on Social Se-
curity disability, others, are moving
into the labor force.
I am fixated on this particular slide
because we have to do better. I ask
every policymaker, whether you are on
the left or the right, to think about
how we design these programs that are
meant to be our safety net. How do we
design them to encourage work, to en-
courage that participation in the labor
force? We have to have that on this
end, if we are going to have the re-
sources on the other end to keep our
promises.
We are going to go through all five
things that I believe, optimistically,
can get us there.
This one I put up just because it is
from Arizona. A bit of trivia: You saw
the numbers a few months ago talking
about the collapse, functionally, in
U.S. birthrates, you know, down to
1.67. Do you know what State had the
largest fall of birthrates? It was actu-
ally my home State of Arizona.
You start to see this and understand
the scale we are at. We are substan-
tially below replacement rate right
now.
When you see this slide, you imme-
diately should start thinking about
what we can do as incentives in our so-
ciety for family formation with chil-
dren, but also what are the levers with-
in immigration that would help us
move to certain types of population
stability.
Before we go to the next slide—let’s
hold off on that one—let’s walk
through sort of an optimistic vision of
what we can do. It is big; it is com-
plicated; and it is going to require a lot
of us to explain really difficult things
to constituencies that have heard poli-
ticians for decades now saying: Well, if
we just take care of waste and fraud.
You understand, there are problems
out there. It needs to be fixed. I believe
there are technology solutions to stop
the waste and fraud. It is a fraction of
a percent of what is actually happening
out there.
So let’s walk through our five.
We have to grow our economy. That
is why we did tax reform. That is why
we also now have to fix our trade situa-
tion. That also is why we have to con-
tinue the proper types of education in
our society.
There is a series of things you do as
a society to maximize economic expan-
sion, because we are talking more than
just this year, next year, the next dec-
ade. We really need to have a window
that goes out at least 30 years.
Remember our baby boom population
of 74 million with the peak being 63
years old? We need to be thinking at
least 30 years out of what we do to
maximize economic expansion over
that time.
A lot of it is going to be tax, regu-
latory, education, trade, those types of
things that we have the levers on that
can maximize that expansion.
The next thing we were just talking
about is labor force participation. Let’s
fixate on that.
As we start to go through these, what
do you also do within the incentives?
You are 65. You are healthy. What
could we do as incentives within Medi-
care, Social Security, certain of our
tax rules, to encourage someone to
stay in the labor force?
If you have an interest in this, read
some of the articles about things Japan
has been doing to try to create some
labor force participation stability,
even though their population is aging
out very, very quickly.
The next slide I want to go to is one
of my favorites, just conceptually.
That is, much of the explosion in the
costs, you see, is in the Medicare area.
The debates that happen on this floor
about healthcare, if you take a step
backward and can strip your mind a
little bit from being a Democrat or a
Republican, you do understand that
much of the debate around here is not
about what changes the cost, but it is
about who gets to pay.
b 2000
The ACA created a world where we
are saying: Okay. We are going to cre-
ate all these government subsidies; we
will move it this way.
But it didn’t remove any costs. Then
we will actually do things that are say-
ing: Well, we believe this will actually
get more participation in the market-
place, and that will actually create ac-
tuarial stability.
But, ultimately, if you actually take
a step backwards and think about, in
society, what do any of these do to ac-
tually remove costs? And I want to
argue there is a technology disruption
revolution about to hit in healthcare.
The poster next to me actually is a
handheld ultrasound. Think about an
ultrasound that is the size of your
phone. You take it, you actually plug
it into your phone, and you have an
ultrasound; something that, just a few
years ago, was really expensive, you
can have in your pocket.
It is under a couple of thousand dol-
lars, and, apparently, the prices are
crashing because there are now mul-
tiple competitors in this technology
because of the development of new
types of sensors. Think about a world
where it is much more than you are
wearing a smartwatch that helps you
with your heart arrhythmia, but think
about something where you can blow
into it, and it tells you if you have the
flu and automatically could order your
antivirals. Well, it turns out that is ac-
tually in testing right now.
How many of you went to Block-
buster video last weekend? Of course
not. There was a technology revolu-
tion—feels like it happened overnight—
where we used to go stand in line, get
a little box with a little disc in it, get
movie recommendations from the per-
son behind the counter. Today, we go
home, we hit a button, and it is HBO
Go, it is Netflix, Hulu, whatever you
ultimately watch. We were quite will-
ing to accept that technology in our
homes almost overnight.
I am going to continue to ask Con-
gress, the regulators, the people in our
society, think about what we could do
to disrupt the costs of the delivery of
healthcare, and I will argue with you
that it is technology. There is an ex-
periment going on in Arizona right now
where I think they are up to five little
clinics that are substantially autono-
mous. It is a powerful thought experi-
ment.
You will hear people; Members of
Congress talk about telemedicine. I
will argue with you, some of the re-
search we have been doing out of our
office, telemedicine now is already out
of date. There is now algorithmic,
where it can read these sensors that
you wear on your body. It can actually
read with the thing you blow into, and
the algorithm is amazingly accurate.
Would that concept help us in our
issues in rural healthcare, but also in
our ability to have the cost collapse
that technology potentially brings?
And I know it is uncomfortable because
we are used to the system we have, but
we can’t afford the system we have.
You have seen it in the chart. You see
what is coming at us.
Then the last thing of the five is we
are going to have to have an honest
conversation about the way Medicare,
the way Social Security, the way many
of these programs are designed. Do we
need to look out into the future and
build a shock absorber into them that
has to do with life expectancy? What
would happen tomorrow if we were
blessed to have a cure to Alzheimer’s
and life expectancy suddenly—what is
the term? Like a punctuated equi-
librium, we had a sudden pop of a few
years in life expectancy, what would
that mean to actuarial tables?
Do we need to start designing in
shock absorbers policy-wise today, the
incentives to actually stay and work so
we have the labor force participation,
but, also, can we build some spiffs,
some incentives?
So if you start to look at everything
from fixating on the growing of the
economy, fixating on participation in
the labor force, fixating on the adop-
tion of technology as a price disrupter,
and then the actual structure we use
on the delivery of entitlements, and we
understand the scale and how fast this
is coming at us, I will argue with you,
it is something we need to do almost
immediately.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.043 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1239
January 28, 2019
My goal is, over the next few months,
every week, every other week to come
behind this podium, and we are going
to start to get more granular in how
the policies would work and what
drives them.
So my point, once again, is under-
standing it is mandatory spending. It is
substantially, remember, 91 percent,
delivered by our demographics, and de-
mographics isn’t political. It is just
what we are as a society. So what do
we do?
Last bit, because I skipped it, and I
want to come back to it. Immigration;
designing an immigration system that
substantially promotes a talent-based
model. Why? If everything we do pol-
icy-wise has a fixation on economic ex-
pansion, on economic growth, so we ac-
tually have the resources to keep our
promise as a society, you actually have
to think about, even immigration, and
a model within that both looks at pop-
ulation stability—because you saw
what was happening to our birth
rates—but a talent-based system so
you get the maximum multiplier effect
of economic growth.
When we do the math in our office,
we see a way to stabilize the debt. It
doesn’t go away. It keeps growing, but
the economy grows so that percentage
of debt to GDP actually keeps us so our
interest rates don’t explode off the
charts because no one will take the
risk on our debt, but think of the num-
ber of policy decisions I am asking this
body to make.
There is a path. It is going to be
hard. We are going to have to explain a
lot of very difficult mechanics of why
we need to do what we are going to do,
but it is the path that saves our coun-
try.
I have a 3-year-old little girl, best lit-
tle girl ever. I want her to have the
same opportunities I have had. And the
way our demographics pile up our debt
over the next 30 years, she won’t have
the same opportunities I have had, and
that just isn’t fair. That is not fair to
anyone. We have got to find a way to
keep our promises and have the next
couple of generations also have the
same opportunities.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
NECESSARY BORDER WALL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
GROTHMAN) for 30 minutes.
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, we
have another weekend gone by and an-
other speech of our President on the
issue of illegal immigration and what
to do with the wall on the southern
border.
I take this opportunity, after spend-
ing the weekend talking to several con-
stituents of the Sixth Congressional
District, to deal with some misconcep-
tions in this debate.
The first misconception I would like
to talk about is whether Donald Trump
can compromise, because there are
some people out there who feel that the
delay in opening the government was
because this, admittedly, type A indi-
vidual could not compromise.
The shutdown was caused because we
had not passed an appropriation bill
that both, I can say, sides, both the
pro-wall and anti-wall people could
agree with. President Trump pre-
viously—this is his third year—signed
two appropriation bills funding the De-
partment of Homeland Security and
the rest of the government without
getting a wall. It was not until the
third time that President Trump and
Congress could not reach an agreement
on the Homeland Security bill. And I
will point out that was largely because
Congress couldn’t get along, not Presi-
dent Trump.
After a delay of over 30 days, Presi-
dent Trump has, one more time, com-
promised. He compromised to allow 3
more weeks of the government to be
open on the promise, or the implied
promise, of the Speaker that she will,
in good faith, negotiate about a wall.
President Trump, during this time,
also agreed to an extension, a DACA
extension, which the border patrol,
quite frankly, would disagree with, be-
cause they feel it will encourage more
people to be optimistic and come here
illegally across the border. He also ex-
tended temporary protected status, an-
other thing which may or may not be
right, but was a further olive branch
towards people, who, so far, would
refuse to vote for a budget with the
funding of a wall.
In any event, I think, if you look at
the past, President Trump has been
more than willing to compromise, sign-
ing bill after bill in his first 2 years, de-
spite not making due on his number
one campaign promise, extending tem-
porary protected status, a DACA exten-
sion, and now a 3-week extension.
You can say a lot of things about
Donald Trump, but you cannot say he
is not willing to compromise. I think
very, very many people feel he has
compromised more than enough.
The next question is: Do we need a
wall? Is a wall necessary? And the fact
is it is. We need a wall because we need
secure borders.
First of all, as has been pointed out,
70 percent of the heroin in this coun-
try, which has caused tens of thousands
of deaths, comes across our southern
border. Some of that heroin comes
across points of entry, and at the
points of entry, it is not unusual to
catch people sneaking in heroin. Some
people have made something of the fact
that not a lot of heroin is caught in the
60 percent of the southern border that
has no barrier at all up.
That is because there is no barrier.
We have no idea how much heroin is
coming across there, but common sense
will tell you, if you wanted to sneak il-
legal drugs in this country and have a
choice between going across a regular
point of entry with perhaps dogs and
border control agents or somebody out
in the middle of nowhere, you would go
somewhere out in the middle of no-
where. It is hard to tell me that anyone
cares about the heroin crisis in this
country if they do not want a wall.
The next thing to look for is all the
people sneaking into the country. The
border patrol itself will tell you they
have no idea how many people are com-
ing across the border. We can say, at a
minimum, we have 11 or 12 million peo-
ple in this country illegally, but for all
I know, talking with somebody from
the border patrol today, it could be 20
million.
And the question is, if we are going
to let more people in this country, are
we going to let people in this country
who are sneaking across the border or
people who are coming here legally?
Another problem with people coming
here legally, I would argue, is they
may be more likely to use welfare or
that sort of thing when they come to
the country. Talking to the customs
agents, I have found evidence, when
they looked at people’s purses, when
they looked at people’s wallets, of evi-
dence of people using EBT cards or
Medicaid cards, taking free goods from
the American taxpayer.
People are committing crime. One
can see when more walls are built on
the southern border; crime goes down
on the other side of the wall. A large
percentage of people who are in Fed-
eral prisons are illegal immigrants,
which is not surprising, given that they
broke the law to come here.
It is a dangerous way to get in. Thou-
sands of people have been found dead
trying to sneak across areas not at a
point of entry. And having been down
in the desert in Arizona, I can easily
see why that would happen. People are
giving children to other people to come
across the border, knowing it is easier
to stay here if you come with children.
Obviously, that is a dangerous thing.
As President Trump says, it is a hu-
manitarian crisis not to shut off the
flow of people who are coming across
the desert hoping to get to America.
Finally, it is a huge cost to the
American taxpayer. Something is said
about the almost $6 billion President
Trump is asking for a wall. A variety
of different organizations make dif-
ferent guesses as to the cost of illegal
immigration every year. It is probably
more than $50 billion. It is not sur-
prising when you take into effect the
free healthcare, the free education, the
welfare given out, and the cost to our
criminal justice system.
In any event, do we need a wall? If we
care about heroin, we need a wall. If we
care about the cost to government, we
need a wall. If we care about people
who are hurt by criminals who come
across the border, we need a wall. And
I should point out that, right now, that
border is controlled by the drug cartels
in Mexico. We need a wall.
The third issue I would like to ad-
dress is there are some people who feel
that Donald Trump is anti-immigrant
or America is becoming nativist by re-
quiring a wall. That is not true. Every
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.044 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1240 January 28, 2019
year, in this country, over 700,000 peo-
ple are sworn in legally to become citi-
zens in this country. Almost 4 million
people are given work visas to come
into this country. Another close to 2
million people come into this country
hoping to be students or to become stu-
dents in this country.
All we are asking, if people want to
sneak across the border, is do it le-
gally. Get in line to be one of the
700,000 people who are going to be
sworn in legally. Get in line to be one
of the almost 4 million people who get
work-type visas to come here.
I think compared to other countries,
quite frankly, there is no comparison.
You look at other countries—Mexico,
Germany, countries like that—you will
find the number of people that they are
allowing to naturalize into their coun-
try is percentage-wise much less than
the United States of America.
b 2015
It is incredibly open-minded, and
with open arms, that the United States
continues to let these large numbers of
people come into this country to natu-
ralize, to become students, or to work
in this country, and nobody is talking
about reducing those very large num-
bers. All we are saying is: Don’t skip in
line.
The next issue I hear people talk
about is: Do walls work? If you build a
wall, will it prevent people from com-
ing across the border?
We can look at the southern border
already, and we can look at walls
around the world.
Look at the southern border. In the
1990s, we built a border wall between
San Diego and Tijuana. People crossing
at that point dropped 92 percent, an in-
credible success.
We have built other walls, walls near
El Paso, walls near Tucson, walls near
Yuma. All of these walls currently
built have reduced illegal immigration
by over 90 percent.
Look around the world in other coun-
tries building walls. Israel built a well-
known wall around 2010 between them-
selves and Egypt. Before they built the
wall, they were having about 1,500 peo-
ple come across their border illegally.
After they built the wall, bit by bit,
that number has dropped all the way
down to nothing. That is a pretty good
success rate, going from 1,500 a week to
nothing.
You don’t hear those people saying:
Oh, people are sneaking across. They’re
going over the wall or going under the
wall.
No, a well-done wall reduces immi-
gration almost entirely.
Right now, 10 EU nations in Europe,
countries similar to ours, have walls.
Hungary built a wall on its border with
Syria and had a 90 percent drop in the
number of people crossing the border,
another example of a very successful
wall.
The other thing I will point out, hav-
ing spent last week down on our south-
ern border, the Border Patrol, every
one of them who I talked to, says they
want a wall. They live with it every
day. The Border Patrol would not want
a wall if it was not effective.
The next thing I would like to point
out is the cost of a wall. President
Trump is asking for $5.7 billion. $5.7
billion is a lot of money. But now we
have to put it in context with what we
are spending in other parts of our budg-
et.
What President Trump is asking for
is one-seventh the cost of foreign aid
that we spend year after year after
year, and all the people who are keep-
ing the government closed because
they refuse to vote for a wall, they
have no qualms—or almost all of them
have no qualms—about voting for
seven times as much every year on for-
eign aid.
It is about one-twelfth the increase
in defense spending under President
Trump, one-twelfth just the increase.
For the protection of our country in
the future, I can think of few things
that are more important than stopping
the invasion from south of our Nation.
It is about 0.1 percent—one-tenth of 1
percent—of our overall Federal budget,
and about four-tenths of 1 percent of
what we refer to as the discretionary
part of our budget.
So while $5.7 billion is a lot of
money, when you look compared to the
other money that Congress appro-
priates again and again, year after year
after year, they usually don’t object to
the money being spent on other things.
Now, you hear it said that walls are
immoral. I will point out that I think
this is a new and rather silly argu-
ment. I think keeping heroin out of
this country; I think keeping a poten-
tial criminal class out of this country;
I think making sure that our future
immigrants are people who stand in
line coming here are not considered
immoral. But I will detect a little bit
of hypocrisy of people who make that
argument.
I mentioned a second ago the wall be-
tween Tijuana and San Diego, which
was built during the term of Bill Clin-
ton. I am sure, if you go back and
check the papers of the time, when Bill
Clinton felt it was necessary to build a
wall between San Diego and Tijuana,
nobody said it was immoral.
Later on, more of the wall right now
was built on an appropriation passed
when President Bush was President.
Some of that wall, or improvements in
the wall, were built when President
Obama was President.
I have a feeling, if we go back, we
won’t find anybody saying the wall was
immoral when it was built by Presi-
dent Clinton or President Bush or
President Obama.
So one of two things is going on here.
Either we have partisanship rearing its
ugly head, and people are perfectly
happy to vote for a wall under other
Presidents, or some people, both Re-
publicans and primarily Democrats,
are becoming a lot more radical since
parts of the wall were built in the 1990s
or the zeros or the teens.
The next thing I would like to deal
with is that you sometimes hear it said
by people who have kept the govern-
ment closed by their refusal to build a
wall that everybody wants border secu-
rity. Sadly, that is not true.
You would feel any citizen with com-
mon sense would want to enforce our
borders, but if you look, the Governor
of California has said that he wants il-
legal immigrants to be given free med-
ical care in his State. The mayor of
New York has said much the same
thing.
There are over 500 sanctuary cities in
the United States of America. A sanc-
tuary city is a city where the local
mayor or city council has said that we
are not going to ask citizens in our ju-
risdiction whether or not they are here
illegally.
Look, if you have a city, or a county,
or a whole State like California that
has become a sanctuary city, those
governors or mayors or legislators or
city councils of course do not want im-
migration laws taken seriously.
In the last 2 years, a bill was brought
forth to try to end sanctuary cities. A
few Republicans voted against the bill,
and all but three Democrats voted
against the bill.
I try to put in my mind, what would
cause someone, if they really cared
about enforcing the border, to say we
have no problem with counties or cit-
ies, in essence, putting up a sign to
say: We are not going to ask people
whether they are here illegally.
The point is that, obviously, there
are a lot of people out there who don’t
care about border security. We have
several Congressmen getting elected on
the platform of saying that they don’t
want to fund ICE, the Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency.
Why would somebody not want to en-
force the immigration and customs au-
thority and, at the same time, want to
have our borders taken seriously?
The answer is, they don’t want our
borders taken seriously. There are a lot
of people who believe, as the Minnesota
Attorney General and former Congress-
man KEITH ELLISON say, that national
borders themselves are an injustice.
They want the idea of a separate
United States of America, I guess, to
permanently change.
You may think it is ridiculous to say
that the idea that we shouldn’t have
national borders is a disgrace, but this
has become, sadly, mainstream among
the left wing segment of the political
class.
The Oakland mayor recently sent an
alarm, telling people, including par-
ticularly people with a criminal back-
ground in Oakland, that ICE was going
to make a sweep and try to pick up
criminals. Why would she do that if she
wanted our immigration laws enforced?
The answer is, more and more people
are getting elected in this country who
do not want immigration laws en-
forced.
Now, I have a few more suggestions
for President Trump. I think it is un-
fortunate that we have not built the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.046 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1241
January 28, 2019
wall yet, but having talked to some
members of the Border Patrol, perhaps,
in some ways, it is a blessing in dis-
guise.
The $5.7 billion that President Trump
wants will be nowhere near enough to
secure the entire border. It will secure
more of the border than now, and it
will be a big step in the right direction.
That is true. But I think perhaps Presi-
dent Trump, now that they have kind
of bit his hand after he has com-
promised and compromised and com-
promised, rather than build for just
$5.7 billion, should try to increase the
size of the wall, so that we are covering
all of the easy entry points on the
southern border, which would take
about $8 billion. I do feel it is impor-
tant enough to secure our borders that
that would be an appropriate thing to
do.
There are other things that, having
been at the border, are suggested. We
are right now not making anywhere
near a good enough effort to see if cash
is going from the cartels back from
north of the border to south of the bor-
der. I would ask President Trump to in-
clude cash-sniffing dogs that can detect
this cash. If people try to sneak across
the border without declaring that cash,
that cash can be taken, and it can be
very devastating for the cartels.
We could use more density meters for
cars, in which you can detect whether
there are drugs within cars. That is an-
other thing that would help our Border
Patrol become more effective.
Finally, he can try to engage people,
if there are any people out there who
care about our borders, about the ridic-
ulous asylum laws. I don’t know if ev-
erybody is aware out there—not
enough Americans are aware—that
anybody who comes to the southern
border can say they are fleeing from vi-
olence or religious persecution and,
after being detained briefly, they even-
tually will be let go for a court date,
which might be years in the future. As
long as that law continues in effect, we
will continue to have millions of people
stream across the border.
I want to look here at some of the
walls that we already have, walls that
were built by other Presidents and
proved to be very effective.
Here we have a wall in San Diego
built by President Clinton. It is not an
immoral wall. It is a very effective
wall that has decreased illegal border
crossings in the San Diego-Tijuana
area by over 90 percent.
We have another wall here that ends
in Nogales, in the Arizona area. I think
this wall was built under President
Bush. It might have been somewhat
improved under President Obama, an-
other very moral wall that is pro-
tecting people on the north side of the
border.
I want to point out another reason
why we need the wall. I talked to some
ranchers in the area. They came across
the Salvadoran gangs that we know are
so brutal, and they fed them. They
weren’t harmed. But can you imagine
living near the border where we have
people crossing the border, either south
to north or north to south, who are
members of the violent El Salvador
gangs?
Here is another picture and a wall
near Sasabe and another point where
the wall ends. This is an area in which,
even if President Trump gets the wall
he wants, they will not be funding an
extension of this wall. It is one of the
reasons why we should ask for a little
bit more than $5.7 million for this wall.
I will point out that the new walls
they build will be better than walls in
the past. We can make walls higher
than this, and we can make walls in
which we have sensors designed to
track people coming up, and walls in
which we have flat areas on top of the
wall that would be very difficult to
climb over. It will be very difficult to
get over these new high-tech walls.
In any event, here is another picture
of a wonderful wall in Sasabe. We just
wish the wall was a little bit bigger.
Here we are going to look at another
couple walls that countries feel are ef-
fective.
Here we have a picture of where a
wall is in Jordan. The feeling is that
the United States may have built part
of that wall to protect the poor Jor-
danians from terrorists coming across.
I don’t remember anybody objecting to
that wall.
Here we have the wall in Israel that
was built and has cut illegal immigra-
tion coming across the border from
Egypt down to literally zero.
Now, looking at these walls, these ef-
fective walls in the past that have been
built by other Presidents, and thinking
that I do not want to have another
shutdown in 3 weeks, the tremendous
inconvenience for the government
workers, the inconvenience for people
who are relying on the government for
inspections and that sort of thing, I
will ask my colleagues who refused to
vote for a border wall during the last
shutdown to just imagine, stop and
think for a minute, and pretend that,
instead of President Trump, we have a
President Clinton, or a President Bush,
or a President Obama, and maybe, to
help you pretend, you can pretend that
the border wall is not there to protect
the residents of Texas, or New Mexico,
or Arizona, but it is there to protect
the residents of Jordan.
Just like in the past, when you voted
for bills to protect the residents of Jor-
dan, or voted for Presidents to build
walls other than President Trump, just
sit back, close your eyes, and pretend
we are building a wall to protect an-
other country, or building a wall at an-
other time, and just vote ‘‘yes,’’ so that
we don’t have to go through another
shutdown, and so that we can protect
American citizens from drug lords and
protect them from people coming
across the border out of line, to be fair
to those people who are coming to this
country legally.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (at the
request of Mr. HOYER) for today on ac-
count of travel delay due to weather.
f
ENROLLED JOINT RESOLUTION
SIGNED
Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House,
reported and found truly enrolled a
joint resolution of the House of the fol-
lowing title, which was thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.J. Res. 28. Making further continuing ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2019, and for
other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 30 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, January 29, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 56, the
Financial Technology Protection Act,
would have no significant effect on di-
rect spending or revenues, and there-
fore, the budgetary effects of such bill
are estimated as zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, a letter
from the Assistant Director, Office of
Regulation Policy and Management,
Office of the General Secretary
(00REG), Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, transmitting the Department’s
Major final rule — Veterans’ Group
Life Insurance Increased Coverage
(RIN: 2900-AQ12) received January 25,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat.
868), was taken from the Speaker’s
table, referred to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. CARSON of Indiana (for him-
self, Mr. SOTO, Ms. MOORE, and Ms.
NORTON):
H.R. 804. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to
award grants to eligible entities to establish,
expand, or support school-based mentoring
programs to assist at-risk middle school stu-
dents with the transition from middle school
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:45 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28JA7.048 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1242 January 28, 2019
to high school; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina:
H.R. 805. A bill to direct the Federal Trade
Commission to revise the regulations regard-
ing the ‘‘do-not-call’’ registry to prohibit
politically- oriented recorded message tele-
phone calls to telephone numbers listed on
that registry; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for
himself, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Ms. DEGETTE, Ms. DELAURO, Mr.
DUNN, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
LYNCH, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. MAST, Ms.
MATSUI, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Mr. RYAN, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, and Ms. MUCARSEL-POW-
ELL):
H.R. 806. A bill to require compliant flame
mitigation devices to be used on portable
fuel containers for flammable liquid fuels,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BUCK (for himself, Mr. BISHOP
of Utah, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. GOSAR, Mr.
CURTIS, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr. CROW,
Mr. NEGUSE, and Mr. PERLMUTTER):
H.R. 807. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to facilitate water leasing
and water transfers to promote conservation
and efficiency; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself and
Mr. REED):
H.R. 808. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to permit nurse practi-
tioners and physician assistants to satisfy
the documentation requirement under the
Medicare program for coverage of certain
shoes for individuals with diabetes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 809. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing resolutions; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself, Ms. MOORE, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. BEYER, Mr. HORSFORD, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. MEEKS, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. NAD-
LER, Ms. MENG, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
KHANNA, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
VARGAS, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. TAKANO,
Mr. WELCH, Ms. HAALAND, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. PALLONE, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Mr. TRONE, Mr. CISNEROS,
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. LEE
of California, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. KENNEDY, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. LEVIN of Michi-
gan, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Mr. COOPER, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Ms. DEGETTE, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. LEWIS,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. POCAN, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mrs.
TORRES of California, and Mr.
LOWENTHAL):
H.R. 810. A bill to block the implementa-
tion of certain presidential actions that re-
strict individuals from certain countries
from entering the United States; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committees on Foreign Affairs, Home-
land Security, and Intelligence (Permanent
Select), for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. CURTIS (for himself, Mr.
POSEY, and Mr. BUDD):
H.R. 811. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to require the disclosure of
the annual percentage rates applicable to
Federal student loans; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. JOHNSON
of Georgia, Mr. COHEN, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, and Ms. NORTON):
H.R. 812. A bill to amend the Ethics in Gov-
ernment Act of 1978 to require individuals
nominated or appointed to Senate-confirmed
positions or to positions of a confidential or
policymaking character to disclose certain
types of contributions made or solicited by,
or at the request of, the individuals; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico (for herself, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. SOTO, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, and
Mr. KING of New York):
H.R. 813. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for temporary
stabilization of Medicare Advantage pay-
ments following Hurricane Maria; to the
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 814. A bill to provide a bonus to any
Federal employee excepted from furlough
during the lapse in appropriations beginning
on or about December 22, 2018, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, and in addition to the Committee on
Armed Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
H.R. 815. A bill to provide, in the event of
a Government shutdown during fiscal year
2019, continuing appropriations to members
and employees of the Coast Guard and law
enforcement officers and custom and border
protection officers within the Department of
Homeland Security, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Appropriations.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. NEAL, Mr. LYNCH,
Mr. BACON, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
KEATING, Mr. KENNEDY, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Mr. COHEN, and Mr.
COLE):
H.R. 816. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
provide death benefits for campus police offi-
cers; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
H.R. 817. A bill to combat the heroin epi-
demic and drug sample backlogs; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. NORTON, and Mr.
GRIJALVA):
H.R. 818. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to enhance medical
device communications and ensure device
cleanliness; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself and Mr. GALLEGO):
H.R. 819. A bill to protect the public from
the harmful consequences of the Federal
Government shutdown by prohibiting certain
actions, to provide enforcement for such pro-
hibition by the Federal Trade Commission,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 820. A bill to require criminal back-
ground checks on all firearms transactions
occurring at gun shows; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 821. A bill to require records of the na-
tional instant criminal background check
system to be retained for at least 90 days; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 822. A bill to prohibit the sale of a
firearm to, and the purchase of a firearm by,
a person who is not covered by appropriate
liability insurance coverage; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 823. A bill to provide for the designa-
tion of certain wilderness areas, recreation
management areas, and conservation areas
in the State of Colorado, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself and
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey):
H.R. 824. A bill to provide back pay to Fed-
eral contractors, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Appropriations, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. HIGGINS
of New York, Mr. TONKO, Mr. COLLINS
of New York, Mr. MORELLE, and Ms.
STEFANIK):
H.R. 825. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to conduct a study to assess
the suitability and feasibility of designating
certain land as the Finger Lakes National
Heritage Area, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self, Ms. BASS, and Mr. MEEKS):
H.R. 826. A bill to facilitate effective re-
search on and treatment of neglected trop-
ical diseases, including Ebola, through co-
ordinated domestic and international efforts;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committees on For-
eign Affairs, and Financial Services, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SOTO (for himself, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. STEFANIK, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. GALLA-
GHER, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. NORMAN, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. MITCHELL, and Mr.
KHANNA):
H.R. 827. A bill to promote a 21st century
artificial intelligence workforce; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Mr. KING
of New York, Mr. SUOZZI, Miss RICE
of New York, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MENG,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. NADLER,
Mr. ROSE of New York, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. ENGEL, Mrs. LOWEY,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. TONKO, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. REED,
Mr. KATKO, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, and Mr. COLLINS of
New York):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28JA7.100 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1243
January 28, 2019
H.R. 828. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
25 Route 111 in Smithtown, New York, as the
‘‘Congressman Bill Carney Post Office’’; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Mr. KING
of New York, Mr. SUOZZI, Miss RICE
of New York, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MENG,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. NADLER,
Mr. ROSE of New York, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. ENGEL, Mrs. LOWEY,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. TONKO, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. REED,
Mr. KATKO, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, and Mr. COLLINS of
New York):
H.R. 829. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1450 Montauk Highway in Mastic, New York,
as the ‘‘Army Specialist Thomas J. Wilwerth
Post Office Building‘‘; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. WEXTON:
H. Res. 79. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
Government shutdowns are detrimental to
the Nation and should not occur; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H. Res. 80. A resolution ranking certain
Members of certain standing committees of
the House of Representatives; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio (for himself, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
KATKO, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. TURNER, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. BALDERSON, and Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ):
H. Res. 81. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives regard-
ing the need for State legislatures to pass
comprehensive sexual assault kit reforms by
2021; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
H. Res. 82. A resolution establishing the
Congressional Gold Star Fellowship Program
for the placement in offices of Members of
the House of Representatives of children,
spouses, and siblings of members of the
Armed Forces who are hostile casualties or
who have died from a training-related injury;
to the Committee on House Administration.
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI:
H. Res. 83. A resolution recognizing the
Eagle Staff, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI (for him-
self and Mr. MITCHELL):
H. Res. 84. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
Congress must amend the United States
Code to prevent any future lapse in appro-
priations, and to permanently end govern-
ment shutdowns; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, the
following statements are submitted regard-
ing the specific powers granted to Congress
in the Constitution to enact the accom-
panying bill or joint resolution.
By Mr. CARSON of Indiana:
H.R. 804.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of section 8 of Article I of the Con-
stitution.
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina:
H.R. 805.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution which states ‘‘Congress shall
have power to regulate commerce with for-
eign Nations, and among the several States,
and with the Indian Tribes.’’
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 806.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1
By Mr. BUCK:
H.R. 807.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 states that
‘the Congress shall have Power to lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts, and Excises,
to pay the Debts, and provide for the com-
mon Defense and General Welfare of the
United States; but all Duties and Imposts
and Excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States.’
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 808.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 809.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the U. S. Constitu-
tion, which grants Congress the power to
‘‘lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts, and
Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the
common defense and general Welfare of the
United States.’’
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 810.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section XIII of the Constitution
By Mr. CURTIS:
H.R. 811.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 812.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 813.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
U.S. Constitution, which provide as follows:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; [and . . .]
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 814.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 9 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
H.R. 815.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution.
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 816.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Article I, Section 8, Clause I; and Article I,
Section 8, Clause 3 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
H.R. 817.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 818.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 819.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section VIII
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 820.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution,
Congress has the power ‘‘to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or any Department or Officer thereof’’.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 821.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution,
Congress has the power ‘‘to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or any Department or Officer thereof’’.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 822.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution,
Congress has the power ‘‘to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or any Department or Officer thereof’’.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 823.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H.R. 824.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. REED:
H.R. 825.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: ‘‘To make
all laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into execution the foregoing
powers, and all other powers vested by this
Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 826.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28JA7.100 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1244 January 28, 2019
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 827.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. ZELDIN:
H.R. 828.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. ZELDIN:
H.R. 829.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 1: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 8: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 38: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee and Mr.
CLOUD.
H.R. 40: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 69: Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 93: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 94: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 95: Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
ALLRED, Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr. STIV-
ERS, Mr. UPTON, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr.
ROSE of New York, and Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 117: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 120: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 125: Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 127: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mr. JOYCE
of Ohio.
H.R. 129: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 141: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 196: Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 197: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 203: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 211: Mr. GREEN of Texas and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 218: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania and
Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 219: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr.
CLOUD, and Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 262: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 270: Mr. GRIJALVA and Mrs. TORRES of
California.
H.R. 275: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 276: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 295: Mr. CURTIS.
H.R. 296: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington, Mr.
FULCHER, Mr. WALTZ, and Mr. PALMER.
H.R. 301: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 310: Mrs. DAVIS of California and Ms.
BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 339: Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. KEATING, and
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 341: Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 344: Ms. PINGREE, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. CLAY, Mr. PETERSON, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, and Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 367: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. HUDSON, Mr.
LOEBSACK, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr.
KILDEE, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of
Georgia, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. PETERS, Mr. LIPINSKI,
Mr. POSEY, and Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 369: Mr. ROY, Mr. TIMMONS, Mr. SHIM-
KUS, Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. LONG, Mr. HIGGINS of
Louisiana, and Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 372: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. MEEKS, and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 414: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 428: Mr. TAYLOR and Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 437: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 444: Mr. ROSE of New York and Mr.
KILMER.
H.R. 445: Ms. MOORE and Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia.
H.R. 449: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 465: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 479: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr. DA-
VIDSON of Ohio, and Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 489: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 500: Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mrs. BROOKS
of Indiana, Mr. BUCSHON, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr.
LATTA, Mrs. RODGERS of Washington, Mr.
LONG, Mr. MULLIN, Mr. KELLY of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr.
WALDEN, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. BERGMAN,
Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. REED, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
and Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 504: Mr. RUTHERFORD and Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 510: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. PETERSON,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
SMITH of Missouri, Mr. MARSHALL, and Mr.
KILMER.
H.R. 526: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 527: Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 535: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 553: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, and Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK.
H.R. 555: Ms. WILD, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. PINGREE,
Mrs. MURPHY, Ms. WATERS, Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 570: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 587: Mr. KHANNA, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, and Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 592: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY and Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 596: Mr. PALLONE, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. KEATING, and Mr.
BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 613: Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
TAYLOR, Mr. SPANO, and Mr. DUNCAN.
H.R. 615: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 621: Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 641: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 647: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
CRENSHAW, Mr. WELCH, and Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 663: Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 664: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia and
Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 669: Mr. TAKANO, Mr. PALLONE, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 673: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. KILMER, and Ms.
MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 674: Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. POCAN, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
MOULTON, and Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 678: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. VAN
DREW, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. HASTINGS,
and Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 684: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 714: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia and
Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 724: Mr. STAUBER, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
COX of California, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Mr. SARBANES, and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 728: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
COHEN, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
SABLAN, Mr. YOUNG, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. RUSH, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 732: Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. PALLONE, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Ms. SPEIER, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. ESHOO, Mrs.
LOWEY, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. TONKO, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
SABLAN, Ms. LOFGREN, and Mr. GREEN of
Texas.
H.R. 739: Mr. PENCE and Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 748: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. DUNCAN,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr. GAETZ,
Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. MEADOWS,
Mr. KATKO, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. GOSAR, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. FLORES, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. KELLY
of Mississippi, Mr. BYRNE, and Mr. HECK.
H.R. 750: Mr. COLLINS of New York.
H.R. 761: Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 763: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 769: Mr. HURD of Texas and Mr. TAY-
LOR.
H.R. 770: Mr. PETERS and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 776: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 780: Mrs. TRAHAN and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 781: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 783: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 787: Mr. KING of Iowa.
H.R. 790: Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. KILMER, Ms.
KAPTUR, and Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 791: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.J. Res. 20: Mr. BURCHETT.
H. Con. Res. 4: Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. WILSON of Florida, and
Mr. RASKIN.
H. Con. Res. 5: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY and Mr.
SIRES.
H. Res. 23: Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. SMITH of
New Jersey, and Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia.
H. Res. 33: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Ms. MENG, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. ENGEL, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. VELA, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr.
PASCRELL, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. TONKO, Mr. BOST, Mr. LAWSON
of Florida, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, and Mr.
RUSH.
H. Res. 35: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma,
Mr. KILDEE, Mr. COSTA, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
VARGAS, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Ms. STEFANIK, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and
Mr. SCHIFF.
H. Res. 36: Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. COOPER, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. NORTON, and Mr. MOULTON.
H. Res. 54: Ms. MATSUI, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. LAMB, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. RUIZ, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. QUIGLEY,
Mr. RUSH, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. LARSEN of
Washington, Ms. MENG, Mr. KEATING, Mr.
LOEBSACK, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. TONKO,
Mr. BOST, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. SIRES,
and Mr. KING of New York.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA7.016 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1245
January 28, 2019
H. Res. 58: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mr. SOTO, Mr. TONKO, Mrs. AXNE, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
FOSTER, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SCHRADER, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Ms. SCANLON, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. HASTINGS,
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
and Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H. Res. 72: Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. WALKER, Mr. MCKINLEY,
Mr. NORMAN, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, and Mr.
LAMALFA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA7.020 H28JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S687
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2019 No. 17
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, You continue to hear
and answer prayers. You have empow-
ered us to catapult daunting hurdles,
and we continue to depend on You to
strengthen us for the difficulties ahead.
Be near to us during this challenging
season, as our lawmakers work in an
effort to accomplish Your purposes.
Supply the needs of our Senators,
providing them with wisdom to navi-
gate to Your desired destination for
our Nation and world.
Do for our legislators more than they
can ask or imagine.
We pray in Your holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—H.R. 648
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand that there is a bill at the
desk due for a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the bill by title for the
second time.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 648) making appropriations for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and
for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar on the next leg-
islative day.
f
THE MIDDLE EAST
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
later this afternoon, the Senate will
hold its fourth cloture vote on a pack-
age of important foreign policy legisla-
tion that was introduced back on Janu-
ary 4. For weeks, Senate Democrats
have effectively filibustered this legis-
lation and blocked it from moving for-
ward.
At first, my colleague the Demo-
cratic leader said his party was simply
opposed to considering any other busi-
ness during the partial government
shutdown, but then just a few days
later, he actually sought to move
ahead with a foreign policy vote of his
own. In other words, though Senate
Democrats were filibustering this pro-
Israel legislation with the thin excuse
that they didn’t want to take up any
other business, it turns out it was just
the pro-Israel legislation that was ac-
tually off-limits.
While Senate Democrats were filibus-
tering this legislation, by the way, the
Democratic House had no problem con-
sidering one component of it, which it
passed by voice vote.
So I remain curious as to the real
reason why the Democrats insisted on
filibustering these critical bills. Maybe
we will get a better explanation this
week, assuming Democrats finally drop
the filibuster and allow this body to
get back to work. This is an important
piece of legislation. It comes at an ur-
gent time.
For the past 8 years, the world has
seen a despotic regime wage brutal war
upon its own people. The conflict in
Syria has taken more than 400,000 lives
and driven more than 5.6 million civil-
ians to flee the country, straining the
capacity of nations in the region, as
well as Europe, to deal with the refugee
and humanitarian fallout. Bashar al-
Assad and his cronies have paved the
way for the persistent terror of the Is-
lamic State and invited the chaotic in-
fluence of foreign powers, especially
Iran and Russia.
Of course, this is a region that al-
ready contends with persistent—per-
sistent—instability, including Iran’s
meddling, financial support for terror,
and explicit threats against Israel, but
the legislation at hand addresses these
challenges actually head-on. It tells
our ally Israel that our commitment to
its security is ironclad. It tells our
partners in Jordan that we have their
backs as they grapple with the flow of
refugees and other ongoing effects of
the Syrian crisis. It makes a crystal
clear statement to the Syrian regime
and those who abet it: Your brutality
needs to end.
Here is how the legislation accom-
plishes all that: It makes sure the
United States walks the walk when it
comes to supporting Israel by author-
izing military assistance, loan guaran-
tees, and teamwork on missile defense.
Another bipartisan provision would
preserve communities’ rights to com-
bat the destructive BDS movement by
ensuring that States and local govern-
ments can choose not to funnel tax-
payer dollars to companies that push
anti-Israel boycotts.
With respect to Jordan, the bill be-
fore us reauthorizes legislation to deep-
en our cooperation with this key re-
gional partner, which has faced grave
challenges from the chaos that con-
tinues to unfold in its neighbor to its
north.
With respect to Syria, this legisla-
tion includes the bipartisan Caesar
Syria Civilian Protection Act. As I
mentioned earlier, this passed the
House on a voice vote just last week.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.000 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S688 January 28, 2019
It would create new pathways to hold
accountable the individuals and insti-
tutions that have tortured and mur-
dered countless Syrian civilians over
the course of the civil war. It would en-
sure that unless the Syrian regime
shifts course and ends its brutality, the
nation’s major industries and financial
institutions would pay a heavy price
due to American sanctions.
So if it weren’t obvious, these are
critically important issues, and none of
them have been put on pause because
the Democrats’ political strategy has
blocked this body from taking action.
Due to the Democrats’ filibuster,
Israel, Jordan, and the innocent people
of Syria have already had to wait 24
days for the Senate to proceed to these
largely noncontroversial and widely
supported bipartisan bills.
I hope our colleagues across the aisle
don’t keep them waiting much longer.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—MOTION TO PRO-
CEED—Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the motion to
proceed to S. 1, which the clerk will re-
port.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to the consideration of
S. 1, a bill to make improvements to certain
defense and security assistance provisions
and to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United States-
Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and
to halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian
people, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, as the
dust settles from the longest shutdown
in American history, we have work to
do to get our country back on track.
Hundreds of thousands of Federal
workers who endured a month without
compensation need to get their pay-
checks and backpay as soon as pos-
sible. So I have written a letter to
President Trump urging him to expe-
dite the delivery of those paychecks.
At the same time, we must be mind-
ful of the hardships that persist for
Federal contractors, who may not re-
ceive the backpay they have missed
and who may have lost health insur-
ance during the shutdown. We need to
find a solution as well for those con-
tractors. Senator SMITH of Minnesota
is working on that, and I hope we can
do something to help them. It is of no
fault of their own that they lost pay.
But there are some costs from the
Trump shutdown that cannot be re-
couped. The CBO today released a re-
port about the lasting damage that the
Trump shutdown has done to the Amer-
ican economy. According to the CBO,
the 5-week shutdown cost the U.S.
economy $11 billion overall, including
$3 billion in economic activity that can
never be recovered.
Let me repeat that. The Trump shut-
down has cost the U.S. economy $11 bil-
lion. What a devastating and pointless
exercise this has been. If President
Trump didn’t appreciate the error of
his ways already, his CBO ought to set
him straight—no more shutdowns.
They accomplish nothing. They only
inflict pain and suffering on the coun-
try, our citizens, our economy, and our
national security. That is a lesson we
all must keep in mind.
The continuing resolution we passed
on Friday only runs until February 15.
In 3 weeks, we must pass additional ap-
propriations to avoid another shut-
down. Let the CBO report be a dire
warning to President Trump and my
Republican colleagues in the Senate
against shutting down the government
again.
Now, in these next 3 weeks, House
and Senate appropriators named to the
conference committee on Department
of Homeland Security will endeavor to
strike a bipartisan deal on border secu-
rity. The good news is that we begin
this process with plenty of common
ground. Democrats and Republicans
alike agree on the need for stronger
border security. Though Democrats
sharply disagree with the President on
the need for an expensive and ineffec-
tive border wall, we agree on the need
to strengthen our ports of entry, as
well as the need to provide more drug
inspection technology and humani-
tarian assistance. Since so many of the
drugs come through the portals, a bor-
der wall will do no good at all, but
strengthening those portals is vital.
Because we have set this up as a con-
ference, Democratic and Republican
leadership—House and Senate—will be
involved, as well as the appropriators
from those committees. Everyone has
skin in the game. So in the next 3
weeks, the goal of the committee
should be to find areas where we agree
and work on them together.
In the past, when the President has
stayed out of it, when the President
has given Congress room, we have been
repeatedly able to forge bipartisan
agreements, including two budget
agreements and the Russia sanctions.
When the President injects maximalist
partisan demands into the process, ne-
gotiations tend to fall apart. The Presi-
dent should allow the conference com-
mittee to proceed with good faith nego-
tiations. I genuinely hope it will
produce something that is good for the
country and acceptable to both sides.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, after a
35-day government shutdown, more
than 800,000 Federal workers and their
families are finally back at work.
Their families have endured unneces-
sary and needless hardship over the
past several weeks because, frankly,
the Speaker of the House, Ms. PELOSI,
was more determined to try to win the
political battle than solve the problem.
I could give the same comment to our
friend the Democratic leader here in
the Senate. I hope now, after we have
been through this exercise in futility,
that our colleagues will take seriously
our responsibility to solve the problem
before us, and that is to reach an
agreement so we don’t end up in the
same position 3 weeks hence when this
continuing resolution expires.
I tell people that we solve problems
like this every single day here in the
Congress. You don’t read about it, nec-
essarily, or hear about it because when
we build consensus and negotiate com-
promises, it is not news. The only time
it is news is when we disagree and
when it is broadcast across cable TV or
the subject of talk radio or social
media.
It is unfortunate that dedicated pub-
lic servants were caught in the cross-
hairs over a partisan fight on border
security. What we have seen over the
last months is that many Members de-
sire to score those political points and
win a fight against the President, and
that desire is much greater than their
desire to build legislation that benefits
the American people.
There is a solution to be had. As I
said, we do it every day. The only ques-
tion is, Are we willing to work to-
gether to find it? I know I am.
I have been speaking with many
Members of the Texas delegation, both
Republicans and Democrats, to try to
find that common ground for our con-
stituents for border security. We don’t
consider these to be political footballs
or talking points; we consider these
matters to be part of their daily lives
and part of our responsibility as their
elected representatives.
In the last few days, I have had the
chance to be in Dallas, TX, and also in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28JA6.001 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S689
January 28, 2019
Austin, TX. I was in Austin, TX, to
talk about the CyberTipline we reau-
thorized working with Facebook and
Microsoft and other social media plat-
forms to talk about how we can work
together to combat child pornography
and child exploitation, using the au-
thority of the CyberTipline. We were
joined by the new U.S. attorney there,
John Bash. I asked him whether his
prosecutors who were prosecuting
these cases or the FBI agents who
would investigate them or his support
staff who support the U.S. attorney’s
office—whether any of them were get-
ting paid, and he said no. But every-
body showed up at work, doing their
job, fighting the scourge of child ex-
ploitation, even though they weren’t
getting paid.
Ditto in the Northern District of
Texas, where I visited with the U.S. at-
torney, who gave me the same story.
We were there talking about the
scourge of human trafficking. Erin
Nealy Cox, the U.S. attorney in Dallas,
pointed out that, yes, the prosecutors
were there at work, the investigators
were there, and the support staff were
there, even though they were the ones
probably earning the most modest pay-
checks of anybody in the office. Every-
body was there, doing their job, even
though during these 35 days they had
missed two different Federal pay-
checks.
Thinking now about the solution to
our standoff on border security, I want-
ed to mention that a couple of weeks
ago the President flew to McAllen, TX.
Senator CRUZ and I joined him in the
Rio Grande Valley to hear from the ex-
perts. By ‘‘the experts,’’ I don’t mean
folks who run for office here in Wash-
ington, DC. I mean the Border Patrol,
Customs and Border Protection, and
Department of Homeland Security ex-
perts who actually work on the ground
there along the border.
We also met with mayors and county
judges and other folks who live in
those communities and are most con-
cerned about safety and security but
also the economy of the border region.
We discussed with them what sensible
border security actually looks like.
We know that physical barriers
didn’t use to be a partisan issue when
the Senator from New York—the
Democratic leader—Barack Obama,
and Hillary Clinton all voted for the
Secure Fence Act back in 2006. We
called it a fence then and not a wall,
but it was a physical barrier, and it
was a nonpartisan issue.
That was then and this is now. When
we were talking about physical bar-
riers along the border, my friend Cam-
eron County Judge Eddie Trevino said
something that stuck with me, and I
have repeated it a number of times,
and I think it could be a lesson to all
of us about how to approach this entire
debate. He said that if law enforcement
officials say where barriers are needed,
he is all in, but if politicians say where
they are needed and they are trying to
micromanage border security, consider
him a skeptic.
I think what people want—and my
sense is what my constituents along
the border region and across the State
of Texas want and, I dare say, across
the country—is to come up with effec-
tive solutions that will make our bor-
der more secure. Since Texas has 1,200
miles of common border with Mexico,
of course, I have thought about this a
lot, and I have listened and learned a
lot about this. What I have been told
and I believe is that at any given place
along the border, you are going to have
some combination of three elements:
physical barriers, technology, and per-
sonnel. We need a complement of each
of those things in this border security
bill that hopefully we will be voting on
in the coming weeks.
Many areas along the border are sub-
ject to high pedestrian traffic. They
need physical barriers. That is why
they make sense in El Paso and San
Diego and Tucson, for examples. All of
these saw a massive drop in apprehen-
sions after fencing or physical barriers
were put in place, along with a com-
plement of technology and border
agents when they were deployed in the
1990s and 2000s. We know that barriers
can work. We have seen it proven time
and again.
We all agree that we don’t need bar-
riers across the entire 2,000-mile south-
western border. We don’t need a great
wall from sea to shining sea across the
border. One example comes readily to
mind. Big Bend National Park, for ex-
ample, is home to massive canyons,
and some of the cliffs reach more than
3,000 feet high along the Rio Grande
River. It is a spectacular and beautiful
place. It would not only be impractical
but completely wasteful to build a
physical barrier on top of a towering
cliff. That is just one example of where
you might want to use some other
parts of that triad of technology and
personnel because a physical barrier
wouldn’t make much sense.
There are others who have suggested
that we use the natural barrier of the
Rio Grande River. Right now, much of
that river is filled with something
called carrizo cane, which makes it
harder for the Border Patrol to actu-
ally locate people trying to enter the
United States illegally. It reduces the
effectiveness of that natural physical
barrier of the Rio Grande River. We
need to find a way to eradicate that in
a way that will not only allow that
river to be more of a natural barrier
but also provide greater visibility for
the Border Patrol.
In some areas, as I said, physical bar-
riers, either new, repaired, or replaced
are desperately needed. In others, sur-
veillance technology, such as sensors
or drones, will do the trick. Many addi-
tional personnel are needed to improve
efficiency or alleviate staffing short-
ages. It doesn’t make sense to have a
physical barrier if there is no Border
Patrol agent to detain somebody enter-
ing the country illegally or to interdict
the drugs that come across the border.
As my friend Judge Trevino said,
politicians shouldn’t be the ones decid-
ing exactly where along the border
each of these three elements is applied.
That is why we have asked and will
continue to ask Customs and Border
Protection—the experts—what we need
and provide funding to implement the
changes they have asked for.
I think it is a statement of the obvi-
ous to say that, in addition to improv-
ing the physical security across our
border, we need to make changes in our
border security approach and immigra-
tion system as a whole. Unfortunately,
we are not even dealing with the larger
problem of our broken immigration
system.
Several years ago, I introduced legis-
lation to the so-called Gang of 8 immi-
gration bill that we were debating at
the time. The legislation I introduced
was called the RESULTS amendment. I
believe the foundation of that legisla-
tion should be incorporated in any fu-
ture legislation we come up with here
in the next few weeks. One of the main
requirements was for the Department
of Homeland Security to come up with
a plan to achieve operational control of
every single border sector, meaning a
90-percent border apprehension rate.
Requiring this sort of metric or appre-
hension rate will provide a clear, objec-
tive way to measure border security.
Ironically, the way we measure border
security now is that we know how
many people are detained, but we don’t
know how many get away. It is a
strange way to count effectiveness by
counting the ones we detain but not
the ones who get away—which obvi-
ously we can’t do. If we come up with
a better way to measure border secu-
rity with a clear-cut metric like a 90-
percent operational control require-
ment, I think it would provide a better
way for us to determine how to effi-
ciently spend the tax dollars we are
talking about, which we are stewards
of here in the Congress, and ensure
that we are focusing our resources on
the highest priority areas. This re-
quirement would allow us to do that.
That particular legislation, the RE-
SULTS amendment, would also require
increased surveillance and provide so-
lutions to commonsense problems. For
example, it would have prevented vio-
lent criminals from acquiring legal sta-
tus, provided law enforcement with
critical national security and public
safety information, and mitigated the
problem of visa overstays. This RE-
SULTS amendment would have
strengthened biometric requirements.
It is ironic, as we talk about border
security and immigration, that we turn
a blind eye to the 40 percent of illegal
immigration that occurs when people
enter the country legally and overstay
their visas. Unless they commit some
other crime in the course of their time
here, they are largely not located. So
we need to find a better way to enforce
all of our immigration laws, including
visa overstays.
We can’t ignore the fact that our bor-
der is not only a place that needs secu-
rity but that is important to the eco-
nomic vitality of not only my State
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28JA6.003 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S690 January 28, 2019
but of our country. The financial im-
pact of legitimate trade and travel is
enormous. As a matter of fact, $300 bil-
lion worth of goods flow back and forth
through Texas’s ports of entry alone in
a given year. That is why this type of
legislation is so important—because it
provides resources to significantly re-
duce wait times at border crossings,
which makes the movement of people
and goods faster but no less secure.
Finally, this legislation took a stand
against the brutal human rights viola-
tions we see along the southern border
by stiffening penalties on abusive
human smugglers and transnational
criminal organizations. There may
have been a time when the so-called
coyotes were a mom-and-pop operation.
‘‘Coyotes’’ is just the name for human
smugglers. Now it is big business, and
the same criminal organizations that
move drugs and economic migrants
also traffic in human beings for sex and
other involuntary servitude. It is no
longer a mom-and-pop operation, to be
sure, and we need to make sure the
penalties for this illegal activity are
increased and stiffened to meet the
challenge of transnational criminal or-
ganizations.
I believe that all of these points still
deserve a place in our debate today. I
look forward to working with our col-
leagues in the coming weeks to create
meaningful and lasting change to
strengthen our border security as well
as to fix longstanding problems with
our immigration system. I believe we
can find common ground, and I hope
our Democratic colleagues will follow
through in their commitment to nego-
tiating in good faith so that we do.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). The Senator from New Hamp-
shire is recognized.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President,
after the longest shutdown in govern-
ment history, Federal employees
across the country are finally return-
ing to work. National parks are reopen-
ing, grant programs are up and running
again, and those who depend on essen-
tial government services are now being
helped by our Nation’s public servants.
One of the things that impressed me
the most during the shutdown was, as I
met with our Federal employees who
were affected, their dedication to their
jobs and to the services they were pro-
viding to the American people. Like
the rest of the Members of Congress
and people in this country, I was
thrilled when we were able to end that
shutdown last week, and I was espe-
cially pleased to work with my col-
leagues to make sure government oper-
ations would return to normal. This
shutdown should never have happened.
For 35 days, partisan gamesmanship
forced government Agencies to close
their doors, and more than 380,000 Fed-
eral workers were furloughed and an-
other 450,000 employees worked with-
out pay.
These Federal workers, some of
whom live paycheck to paycheck, were
forced to have very difficult conversa-
tions with their families on what bills
will not be paid this month and how to
make ends meet. I remember I was at
the Coast Guard station in New Hamp-
shire last week meeting with members
of our Coast Guard who were talking
about the Coast Guard cutter that is
stationed there—the Reliance—heading
out that morning and the families of
those Coast Guard members who were
on the Reliance not having any idea
when they would again be paid.
Thankfully, these 800,000 employees
and thousands more Federal contrac-
tors are returning to work. Unfortu-
nately, the prolonged economic effect
of the shutdown and the morale of the
Federal workforce is going to last
much longer.
A report released today by the Con-
gressional Budget Office found that
during the shutdown, the economy
took an $11 billion hit, including $3 bil-
lion that is gone forever, which we are
never going to be able to recover. When
people aren’t paid, they don’t shop.
They don’t travel. They miss pay-
ments. They default on loans. They
can’t participate in our economy if
they have nothing in the bank.
Although the shutdown has ended,
some Federal employees who have gone
without a paycheck for over a month
still may not get paid until the end of
this week. I know everybody is trying
to make sure those paychecks go out
as soon as possible. They can’t go out
soon enough for those workers who
have missed their paychecks.
As the President continues to threat-
en another shutdown in the coming
weeks, Congress needs to take addi-
tional action to protect Federal work-
ers. I am cosponsoring three bills that
would provide some financial security
to those employees. These bills would
eliminate penalties for Federal work-
ers who make early withdrawals from
their savings plans, require the govern-
ment to pay back all Federal employ-
ees with interest, just as the private
sector does, and they would ensure that
excepted Federal employees are eligi-
ble for unemployment insurance com-
pensation.
What we know happened during the
shutdown is that those people who were
working couldn’t collect unemploy-
ment because they were working, even
though they weren’t getting paid. That
is something we would never allow the
private sector to do.
I was very disappointed to hear the
President and White House officials say
over the weekend that if the President
doesn’t get what he wants, he is going
to shut down the government again.
The American people, our economy,
can’t afford another partisan shutdown
that jeopardizes our Federal workforce
and does nothing to increase border se-
curity. Our focus now needs to be on
working together to pass bipartisan
legislation that secures our borders
and funds our government.
Protecting our borders shouldn’t be
an exercise in partisanship. In the past,
in the Senate, we have been able to
garner support from across the ideolog-
ical spectrum to fund commonsense
proposals that provide effective secu-
rity.
If we look at this chart that traces
appropriations for Customs and Border
Protection from 2014 to 2018, we can see
that Congress has consistently in-
creased funding for Customs and Bor-
der Protection each of the past 5 fiscal
years, providing nearly $60 billion for
the Agency. In 2014, we provided $10.6
billion; 2015, $10.7 billion; 2016, $11.2 bil-
lion; 2017, $12.1 billion; and 2018, $14 bil-
lion. It is consistently increasing the
dollars that are available.
Just last year, Congress provided $1.3
billion for border fencing on our south-
ern border—$1.3 billion last year. I am
not sure everyone in the administra-
tion knows that is how much money we
have provided. The money has yet to be
spent on the actual construction of
proposed fencing projects.
As we are thinking about how we
spend our money on border security,
we need to be spending it in a way that
is smart. We should not be putting
aside money we can’t spend yet when
there are other needs we have for those
dollars.
We need to build on these proposals
moving forward. We need to focus on
technology, on infrastructure, and we
need to focus on the personnel who are
needed at the southern and northern
borders to provide actual security that
works. We need to make targeted in-
vestments and innovative technologies
that provide comprehensive surveil-
lance at our borders and ports of entry,
along with increasing personnel and
physical infrastructure where nec-
essary.
As a member of the Appropriations
subcommittee that funds Homeland Se-
curity, I have supported these invest-
ments in the past and so has the major-
ity of the members of the committee.
We have worked in a bipartisan manner
to secure our borders.
I have supported funding for targeted
fencing in vulnerable areas, funding for
more Border Patrol agents, for better
surveillance, for screening tech-
nologies, and for increased security at
ports of entry. I intend to continue to
support commonsense efforts such as
these.
Unfortunately, providing billions of
dollars to fulfill a campaign promise to
build a wall that has no plan that has
been presented for how to do that is
really not a serious proposal. It is un-
likely to solve the problems it seeks to
address.
Our efforts to secure the border
should focus on solutions that will
stem the flow of opioids, fentanyl, and
other drugs that have decimated our
communities. Last year, New Hamp-
shire had the second highest rate of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28JA6.005 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S691
January 28, 2019
overdose deaths due to opioids, pri-
marily fentanyl.
Physical infrastructure and some
fencing in high-risk areas can help to
disrupt drug trafficking across our bor-
ders, but it should be done in conjunc-
tion with and not at the expense of
other technologies that allow law en-
forcement to identify and disrupt
criminal activity.
Several years ago, Senator HOEVEN
and I—when he was chair and I was
ranking member of the Homeland Se-
curity Appropriations Subcommittee—
visited the southern border. We had a
chance to talk to Customs and Border
Protection officials, to immigration of-
ficials at the border. They talked about
the drugs that come across at the ports
of entry. In Laredo, we saw dogs and
CBP agents looking in a pickup truck
for an area in front of the gas tank
where they thought drugs were being
secreted.
We are not going to intercept those
drugs that are affecting our States and
communities by building a wall. We
have to have new screening tech-
nologies at our ports of entry, new
technologies that utilize artificial in-
telligence and advanced imaging so
they can assist in identifying contra-
band and weapons that are hidden in
commercial cargo.
Sensor technologies and other sur-
veillance techniques, such as un-
manned aerial systems, or drones,
allow our border agents to expand their
region and respond immediately to ille-
gal activity at our borders. When
resourced and deployed appropriately,
these types of smart investments are
far more likely to interrupt the flow of
narcotics than a costly and ineffective
border wall.
It is also important to remember
that the United States and Canada
share the longest international border
in the world, and the northern border
may not face the same threats as those
posed at the southern border, but
transnational criminal organizations
and other bad actors still attempt to
exploit vulnerabilities and enter the
country illegally through our northern
border.
Coming from a State that shares a
small portion of our border with Can-
ada, I have heard from law enforcement
authorities in New Hampshire. Our law
enforcement officials face unique chal-
lenges with enforcement and security.
These challenges include a lack of
broadband in highly rural areas that
impedes law enforcement activities. If
we see somebody coming across the
border in northern New Hampshire
from Canada, we can’t pick up a
cellphone and call law enforcement be-
cause we don’t have cell service in
northern New Hampshire along our
border.
Truly comprehensive border security
must recognize the threat at our north-
ern border and invest in technologies
to address the unique challenges that
law enforcement faces there. We need
broadband access in northern New
Hampshire and all along our northern
border.
We also need to improve the func-
tioning of our immigration port sys-
tem. We really need comprehensive im-
migration reform, but we are not going
to get there, I don’t think, by the Feb-
ruary 15 deadline. We can look at what
is slowing down our immigration court
system and help support those efforts
to adjudicate immigration cases fairly
and expeditiously and reduce the enor-
mous immigration court case backlog.
Again, as a ranking member of the
Appropriations subcommittee that
funds the Department of Justice, I
have supported strong funding to in-
crease the number of immigration
judges, including an increase of $59 mil-
lion for fiscal year 2019. This increased
amount is, in fact, the President’s re-
quest that would support new immigra-
tion judge teams. We already put that
money into the 2019 budget, if we are
allowed to go forward with what the
Appropriations Committee in the Sen-
ate agreed to.
Our immigration courts currently
have a backlog of more than 800,000
cases waiting to be heard, and the
shutdown exacerbated this problem by
forcing more than 80,000—80,000—court
hearings to be canceled. The average
wait time to hear an immigration case
is already longer than 2 years, and
these unnecessarily canceled hearings
will be rescheduled into 2020 and be-
yond.
This shutdown-caused delay means
years longer that people who should be
deported, who may pose a threat in
this country, will be able to stay here
and years longer that the people who
may deserve relief, who should be al-
lowed to stay in the United States, will
have to wait in limbo.
Now that the shutdown has ended,
now that cooler heads can prevail, and
we can look at what makes sense to se-
cure our borders, look at what we have
already done, how we can build on that
and how we can address legitimate con-
cerns about what is going on at our
borders, it is time for all of us—Repub-
licans and Democrats—to put aside
gamesmanship and to support common-
sense proposals.
It is my hope that the conference
committee that has already been ap-
pointed to negotiate funding for the
Department of Homeland Security will
focus on the solutions that work rather
than proposals that score political
points. This shutdown took an enor-
mous economic and emotional toll not
only on our Federal workforce but on
everyone who accesses government
services.
As we craft a bipartisan proposal to
fund the government and secure our
borders, let’s not forget the impact
that has had on the people we serve and
on the potential impact if we don’t get
this resolved by February 15.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
(The remarks of Ms. COLLINS per-
taining to the introduction of S. 240 are
printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I come to
talk about the bill before us, S. 1. We
have had multiple attempts to get onto
this bill. I am hopeful that today will
be that day.
VENEZUELA
Mr. President, I wanted to briefly, for
just a moment, divert to a different
topic on Venezuela that was in the
news about an hour and a half ago. The
administration announced additional
measures. It has been covered in the
press, largely as sanctions on the re-
gime of Nicolas Maduro, the illegit-
imate usurper and head of the criminal
syndicate that controls the security
agencies in that country.
While it most certainly is going to
hurt him, I think it is important to
point out that the more accurate way
to describe it is that Venezuela sends
about 500 billion barrels of crude oil a
day to the United States to be refined.
That belongs to the Venezuelan people.
What has been happening is that U.S.
refineries pay for it. It is about three-
quarters of the cash generated by the
state-run oil company.
Then, Maduro and his cronies steal
that money—not to build roads or feed
people. They steal it to bribe and keep
people loyal to him. If you are a high-
ranking general in Venezuela, with the
fancy uniforms and the stars and bars,
in those pictures that you see—why are
they loyal to Maduro? They are
‘‘loyal’’ to him because he keeps pro-
viding them access to corruption. One
way is by pilfering and completely tak-
ing all that cash out of the state-run
oil company. That ends today.
What is going to be done now is that
U.S. refineries are still allowed to buy
crude, but the payments, instead of
being made to Maduro so he can steal
it, will be set aside in an account to be
used by the legitimate government of
that country. If you are one of these
corrupt officials who has been ‘‘loyal’’
to Maduro up until today because of
the money, that is about to end, as
well, and perhaps you should reevalu-
ate your loyalty, for lack of a better
term.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28JA6.006 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S692 January 28, 2019
S. 1
Mr. President, the topic before us
today is S. 1. This bill, among other
things, is a response to decisions that
were made recently on the U.S. pres-
ence in Syria. I believe that the deci-
sion to draw down is a mistake. I have
communicated that to the President,
and he invited us to the White House a
couple of weeks ago to have a conversa-
tion with a group of us. Irrespective of
what ends up happening, there are
going to be byproducts of that decision.
There will be consequences of it. Sev-
eral of those consequences are going to
directly impact our allies in the re-
gion.
Let me begin by saying that it will
directly impact the United States. We
already see that ISIS in Syria was on
the path to morphing into an insur-
gency. An insurgency is different than
what they used to be. ISIS used to take
over big pieces of land and fly their
black flag, and they had buildings. In
some ways, that is terrifying because
they control land and they have people
under their command. In some ways, it
is easier to target them. They are tell-
ing you where they are, and you can
see it, and it is out in the open.
Insurgency is different. It is when
you blend into the population. By day,
you might be a baker or guy who runs
a cafe. By night, you are an ISIS killer.
They sort of come in and out of the
population. They don’t control large
swaths of territory. They sort of embed
themselves. This insurgency is the
threat we face and the challenge we
had in Iraq that led to the surge to
have to come back in and rectify it.
ISIS was already on the path to doing
that. This will make it easier for them.
It is harder to target an insurgency
than it is to target the caliphate.
I am deeply concerned that the U.S.
withdrawal will make it easier for
them not to just establish an insur-
gency but, worst of all, it will provide
greater operational safety. That means
more space in which they can plot to
attack the United States and our inter-
ests around the world, and even here in
the Homeland. There is real reason to
be concerned about that. You know, 9/
11 doesn’t happen if al-Qaida doesn’t
have a safe haven in Afghanistan. I fear
what ISIS might be able to do if, in
portions of Syria, they are able to es-
tablish a safe haven from which they
can raise money, produce videos, re-
cruit, try to inspire terrorist attacks
abroad, and even direct them.
But one of the other byproducts is
the impact it has with regard to Israel.
Envision for a moment a small country
whose narrowest point is only 9 or 10
miles wide, and it faces a threat to its
north in Syria. In Syria already, in ad-
dition to ISIS and all of these other
criminal and terrorist elements that
are there, you have a growing Iranian
presence. That growing Iranian pres-
ence begins with Iran itself. If current
trends continue, Iran is going to base
within Syria surface-to-air missiles de-
signed to shoot down airplanes. They
are going to base ballistic missiles
even closer now to Syria. They don’t
have to launch them up to Israel. They
don’t have to launch them from Iran.
They can now launch them from Syr-
ian territory, just off the Israeli bor-
der. They have UAVs. We have seen
how the Houthis have helped to
operationalize those. All of that is
sponsored by Iran operating out of
Yemen.
One of the mortal enemies that Israel
faces is Hezbollah. They are
headquartered primarily in Lebanon,
but there are Hezbollah elements all
over Syria. For a long time now, they
have been getting their armaments and
weaponry from Iran, but it had to be
flown, especially in the middle of this
conflict.
Imagine that now Iran has the abil-
ity to arm and equip Hezbollah with all
of these things, not just from the air
but through a ground route where they
can actually ship things to them from
the ground. That is why they so des-
perately care about what is happening
in Syria. It gains them operational
space—not to mention that Hezbollah
is in Syria.
There is a wing of Hezbollah that is
inside of Syria. Imagine that now, if
you are Israel, you already face the
threat of Hezbollah. Hezbollah has al-
ready developed rockets that they are
now making. They are not shipping
them anymore. They are now building
these rockets. They are developing
these rockets in Lebanese territory.
They are not the rockets from the last
time they had a war with Israel. These
new rockets are precision guided,
meaning they can actually aim them
to hit certain areas and avoid hitting
others.
They have a lot more than they used
to have. Just by volume, they can over-
whelm Israeli defenses very quickly or
potentially. You already have that
problem in Lebanon. Imagine that
exact same problem, not just from Leb-
anon but to the north of you, coming
from Syria, just across the Golan
Heights.
Imagine you are Israel and you have
your mortal enemy Iran, your mortal
enemy Assad, your mortal enemy
Hezbollah, and these other radical Shia
groups all to the north of you in that
country. Israel is taking action. They
are increasingly and openly acknowl-
edging this as they launch these at-
tacks into Syria to try to degrade their
capabilities and put themselves in that
position. They cannot allow people and
they cannot allow organizations whose
very existence is justified by the de-
struction of the Jewish State to openly
operate and increase their capacity
just north of their borders. That is
what is happening, and that is why
Israel is increasingly striking.
Listen to the words in a broadcast
that I believe was yesterday or the day
before. The head of Hezbollah was on
television in an open television inter-
view, and he basically warned Israel.
He said: If Israel continues to strike
within Syria in this way, it is going to
lead to a war. It is going to lead to a
war because Syria and its allies, in-
cluding them, but also Iran, are going
to have to retaliate for these attacks.
Walk through this with me. Israel at-
tacks out of self-defense because they
have to. Syria, Hezbollah, and Iran,
and a gang of others respond against
Israel. Then, Israel has to respond in
kind, potentially, even hitting
Hezbollah inside of Lebanon, and sud-
denly we have another Israel-Hezbollah
war, but much broader than the last
one because it will involve Syria and it
will involve Iran, and it will be far
deadlier because, unlike the last time,
they now have a lot more of these mis-
siles and these missiles are precision-
guided.
This is the threat that Israel faces. It
is very real. Events there can quickly
spiral into that. One of the things our
bill does is it puts in law the memo-
randum of understanding between the
United States and Israel that says
that, in the case of conflict, the United
States will be there to help Israel
rearm and reequip itself, and we will
work hand-in-hand with them on
things like missile defense, which are
mutually beneficial, by the way, be-
cause all these innovations happening
there can also benefit us here or by
protecting our presence around the
world.
Why is this bill important? First, be-
cause of the practical implications of
it. We want Israelis to be able to defend
and protect themselves. It sets aside,
in our arsenal, weapons that are held
there for purposes of if Israel ever
needs them. For those who are worried
about whether that would degrade our
own capability, the law says it has to
be done in a way that doesn’t degrade
our own capabilities to defend our-
selves. It sets in place the assurance
that if Israel gets into one of these
wars that quickly escalates against
multiple parties—Hezbollah, Iran, po-
tentially Syria, themselves—and they
start running out of weaponry—rockets
to defend themselves, munitions and
the like—we will be there to quickly
rearm them. That is just the practical
implication of it.
Here is the other: Israel’s adversaries
will know this too. They would know
that if their goal is to overwhelm
Israel and deplete Israel, it will not
work because the United States is com-
mitted to them.
Our hope here is two-fold. One is to
strengthen Israel so they would be able
to withstand such an assault, but the
other is to hopefully deter a war by
making it very clear that Israel will
never run out of missiles. They will
never run out of munitions to defend
themselves because the United States
will be there to support them every
step of the way.
One of the first things this bill does
is it establishes that into our law be-
cause this is not a threat that is going
to go away in 2 years or even 5 years.
This threat is an ancient one. It has
grown more dangerous.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28JA6.011 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S693
January 28, 2019
This bill was held up because my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
said they didn’t want to hear any bills
until the shutdown was over if the bill
didn’t have to do with the shutdown.
The shutdown is over. I am hopeful
today that this bill, which I believe en-
joys wide bipartisan support, when we
finally get the vote on it and passage,
that we will have an extraordinary
number of votes across the aisle and
across this Chamber and that we will
finally begin debate on this important
topic.
There are other elements in this bill
involving human rights violations that
occurred in Syria, supporting Jordan,
and the BDS movement, which we will
talk more about tomorrow. At its core,
the linchpin is helping Israel defend
itself.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, let me as-
sociate myself with the remarks made
by my friend and distinguished col-
league from Florida.
The importance of this bill cannot be
overstated. It is an incredibly impor-
tant bill. I rise today, once again, to
bring it to my colleagues here in the
Senate. This time, hopefully, we can
get enough votes to move it forward. It
is the Strengthening America’s Secu-
rity in the Middle East Act of 2019. I
urge my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle to support moving ahead on this
commonsense bipartisan legislation.
This package of bills is important
and time sensitive. Israel and Jordan
are our steadfast allies and friends in
the Middle East, and they need support
and the critical aid that this legisla-
tion would deliver. Our nations depend
on one another, and we should not let
them down.
Included in this legislation also is a
very important bill, the Caesar Syria
Civilian Protection Act, which, as I
have noted numerous times before,
very nearly passed the full Senate by
unanimous consent last year. We were
within one vote of getting unanimous
consent on it.
This legislation is long overdue. Half
a million Syrians have died at the
hands of the Syrian dictator, Assad, his
friends, and their allies, and it is past
time that we put an end to it.
This bill includes strong financial
sanctions to target those responsible in
the Assad regime for the terrible loss
of life and destruction in Syria. Fur-
ther, it extends sanctions to those who
would support the Syrian regime’s ac-
tions in the war in Syria, such as Iran
and Russia. The tragic loss of life in
Syria has gone on far too long. We need
to take action now to pressure those
who have the ability to bring this war
to an end—and they do have the ability
to bring this war to an end.
The State of Israel is the only democ-
racy in the Middle East. It is sur-
rounded by oppressive nations, many of
which, like Iran, wish to do Israel
harm. Their security and stability in
the region is of extreme importance to
all Americans. This legislation would
protect Israel where we can here in the
United States by rejecting anti-Israel
boycotts.
I hope that today you will all join me
in a bipartisan way in moving forward
on this important legislation.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to pro-
ceed to the motion to reconsider the
motion to invoke cloture on the mo-
tion to proceed to S. 1 is agreed to, and
the motion to reconsider the motion to
invoke cloture on the motion to pro-
ceed to S. 1 is agreed to.
CLOTURE MOTION
Pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays
before the Senate the pending cloture
motion, which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 1, S. 1, a bill
to make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to Israel,
to reauthorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt the
wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people,
and for other purposes.
Todd Young, Mike Rounds, Richard C.
Shelby, James E. Risch, Mike Lee,
Josh Hawley, John Boozman, Shelley
Moore Capito, Mike Crapo, Tim Scott,
Cory Gardner, Roy Blunt, Steve
Daines, Marco Rubio, Rob Portman,
John Barrasso, Mitch McConnell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the motion to
proceed to S. 1, a bill to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes,
shall be brought to a close upon recon-
sideration?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER), the
Senator from North Dakota (Mr.
HOEVEN), the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL), and the Senator from
North Carolina (Mr. TILLIS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from North Dakota (Mr.
HOEVEN) would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and
the Senator from North Carolina (Mr.
TILLIS) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), and the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 74,
nays 19, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 11 Leg.]
YEAS—74
Alexander
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murray
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Toomey
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—19
Baldwin
Brown
Carper
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Leahy
Merkley
Murphy
Peters
Reed
Sanders
Shaheen
Udall
Van Hollen
Warren
NOT VOTING—7
Booker
Cramer
Harris
Hoeven
Paul
Schatz
Tillis
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 74, the nays are 19.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion was agreed to,
upon reconsideration.
The senior Senator from Mississippi.
Mr. WICKER. What is the pending
business?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mo-
tion to proceed to S. 1.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for 5 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
DATA PRIVACY DAY
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, today is
Data Privacy Day, a day set aside to
raise awareness about how personal in-
formation is being used, collected, and
shared in today’s digital society. It is
also an opportunity to educate the pub-
lic about how to safeguard individual
data and also an opportunity to en-
courage businesses to respect consumer
privacy when correcting and dealing
with data.
As we all know, data-driven innova-
tion is exploding today, and that is a
good thing. It allows developers, entre-
preneurs, small businesses, and large
companies to create applications, prod-
ucts, and services that are increasingly
customized for users. This is great for
consumers and great for the economy.
The benefits from this explosion of
data come in the form of increased pro-
ductivity, convenience, and cost sav-
ings. The benefits also extend to our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28JA6.012 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S694 January 28, 2019
very health and safety. In using data
and in using this data economy, we can
serve to improve the daily quality of
life for every American.
All in all, opportunity in this digital
era is potentially limitless. However,
to realize our Nation’s economic and
societal potential in the global digital
economy, consumers need to have trust
and confidence that their data will be
protected and secure in the internet
marketplace. That is the reason we are
emphasizing data privacy today.
I want to talk briefly about the po-
tential for legislation in this Congress.
Over the last decade, there have been
numerous calls at all levels of govern-
ment in the United States and else-
where for baseline privacy legislation
to protect consumers in a world of Big
Data. Some jurisdictions have already
acted. For example, the European
Union recently enacted the General
Data Protection Regulation—com-
monly known as GDPR. California has
enacted and signed into law the Cali-
fornia Consumer Privacy Act, CCPA.
We see some American companies, not
based in California, certainly not based
in Europe but who are dealing with
data across the board, calling on Con-
gress to act and enact baseline privacy
protections across the board in the
United States of America.
I say that we have reached a point
where Congress needs to act to develop
Federal privacy legislation, and this is
a viewpoint that is accepted and sup-
ported across the aisle by Democrats
and Republicans in both Houses of the
Congress. Strengthening consumer
data protections will be a top legisla-
tive priority for the Commerce Com-
mittee during this Congress. We will
continue to build on the current mo-
mentum in the Senate as we discuss
how to approach the development of bi-
partisan privacy legislation in this
Congress.
This is one of the best opportunities
in this Congress, will be one of the best
opportunities for Democrats and Re-
publicans to work together and put
something on the President’s desk for
his signature. I know that through col-
laboration, we can develop a legislative
proposal that provides consumers with
meaningful choices and strong protec-
tions of their data, both online and off-
line. We need a legislative proposal
that will be balanced, balancing the
need for flexibility, for businesses to
innovate, invest, and compete. This
issue is critical to maintaining U.S.
leadership in the global digital econ-
omy.
I hope next year, at this point in
time, we will be discussing and cele-
brating the enactment of bipartisan
legislation to ensure both consumer
protection and continued innovation in
the United States. Happy Data Privacy
Day.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma is recognized.
NOMINATIONS
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President,
there has been a lot of conversation
about the damage to our economy and
to the basic operations of government
from the shutdown. Rightfully so, it is
something we should talk about and
spend some time trying to figure out
how to manage this for the future,
what shutdowns do to our future.
What has been interesting is how ab-
sent that same conversation has been
over the last 2 years as my colleagues
on the other side of the aisle actively
worked to shut down the basic oper-
ations of government by not allowing
nominations to proceed in the normal
process.
In December, with little fanfare and
into early January, 386 nominations
from the Trump administration were
returned back to the Trump adminis-
tration with a ‘‘no action’’—386 people.
Those were judges, those were poten-
tial board members, those were indi-
viduals, many of them Deputy Assist-
ant Secretaries of different Agencies,
individuals who keep the basic func-
tioning of government open and work-
ing. Three hundred and eighty-six of
those nominations had no action on
this floor because something very dif-
ferent was happening during the last 2
years. It had not happened like this be-
fore in the beginning of any Presi-
dency—in the first 2 years—that his
nominations were blocked on the floor
not with a vote, with time.
In the past, with nominations, a per-
son would be nominated by the Presi-
dent. They would go to the commit-
tees. They would get a full background
check investigation. There would be
questions for the record. The commit-
tees would then have an open debate in
the committee. They would vote as a
committee. If they were voted out of
committee, there would be additional
questions for the record. Then, once
those were done, they would get an up-
or-down vote. Often those were voice
votes, even here. It was something that
was assumed because they had been ap-
proved by committees, and the back-
ground checks had been done.
In the last 2 years, 128 times, Mem-
bers of the Senate required what is
called a cloture vote—one more hurdle
to go through—so that literally they
would have to file cloture on those,
allow for an intervening day for them
to sit out there, and then 30 hours of
debate on that person—30 hours of ad-
ditional debate. That is after the inter-
vening day. You have 24 hours, plus an-
other 30 that is all set out there, to add
a little additional time.
With over 1,000 nominees whom the
executive branch would do, it is not
possible to get through all of those if
you continue to request an additional 2
days in the process to work on each of
them.
For individuals to prevent these dif-
ferent Agencies from working and func-
tioning, to prevent the activities of
government, you can just request clo-
ture votes over and over again—128
times to basically slow down the Sen-
ate so much and to slow down the
workings of government all over DC so
much that it can’t operate at its capac-
ity.
This has to be resolved.
Two years ago, I saw this trend that
was moving in the Senate, and I said
that long-term for the Senate, this will
damage the functioning of government
and of the Senate. We have to address
it.
So 2 years ago I asked for a reach-out
to say: How do we actually resolve
this? We had some ongoing meetings.
We had a full committee hearing deal-
ing with the issue of the nominations
process and how to resolve this in De-
cember of 2017. That was after months
and months and months of meetings in
preparation for that.
We had a markup in April of 2018 to
talk about how we could resolve this
and what proposals are out there.
I had numerous conversations with
Republican and Democratic Members
of the Senate to be able to resolve the
issue in the Senate because, although
in the past you could always request a
cloture vote on someone if there was
someone truly controversial, this was
being used differently. This was not
being used to address someone truly
controversial; this was being used to
shut down the functioning of govern-
ment.
Many of those individuals—once they
did get their cloture vote and that
obligatory time—passed with 80 and 90
votes. They weren’t people—I have
heard people say that if Trump would
put up better nominees, then this
would be easier. It wasn’t that. It was
purely dilatory, to slow down or shut
down Agencies’ operations based on not
allowing them to hire staff to actually
do the job. That government shutdown,
which has been ongoing for 2 years’
time, will continue to go until this
Senate resolves it.
So after 2 years of meetings, I am
making a proposal to this body: We
need to fix this. We need to fix the
nomination process to have an orderly
process so that when there is a con-
troversial nominee, they can be ad-
dressed with additional time on the
floor, even past the committee time,
even past the background checks, even
past the additional questions they are
asked—to give additional time but in a
reasonable way so we can continue to
operate as the Senate.
My simple proposal is that we have 2
hours of additional debate, if addi-
tional time is allotted, and, quite
frankly, that is after the intervening
day, so there would be a full day of de-
bate and then an additional 2 hours on
the next day that would be allotted to
give full time to anyone who may be a
problem. That is 2 hours of additional
blocked-off time in addition to the ad-
ditional day that is put in place. I
think that is plenty of time.
If it is a Supreme Court Justice we
are talking about, if it is a Cabinet of-
ficial, maybe 30 hours would be the
best option for that, as well. So we
would do 2 hours for most nominees, 30
hours for Cabinet level and for the Su-
preme Court or circuit courts. That
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28JA6.016 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S695
January 28, 2019
would give plenty of time to do addi-
tional debate, and it would simplify the
process.
This proposal is not really all that
controversial. I have talked to many of
my Democratic colleagues, and they
seem to nod their heads and say: Yes,
this is a better way to resolve it. The
answer I am getting back is: Let’s vote
for that now but let it not start until
January of 2021.
Their assumption is that they are
going to beat President Trump in an
election, and they will take over, and
they certainly don’t want the Senate
to function when there is a Democratic
President the same way it is func-
tioning when there is a Republican
President.
My gentle nod back to them is that
there is absolutely no way we should
ever agree to that. Why would we ever
do that? What is happening is, the last
2 years of this shutdown—the slowdown
of all of these Agencies, which has hap-
pened by blocking all of these nomi-
nees—have created this muscle mem-
ory in the Senate, and if we don’t fix it
now, it is going to keep going.
My Democratic colleagues who say
‘‘We are going to continue to block you
for the next 2 years the same way to
shut down the functioning of Agencies’’
with some delusional belief that 2
years from now this will not happen to
them if they happen to win the Presi-
dency—that is false, and they know it.
If we don’t resolve this now and allow
this President to be able to function
with his nominees, as any President in
the past has, then this is going to just
keep going, and it will hurt the long-
term functioning of our government.
So it is an absurd thought to say: We
will vote on it now, but it will not ac-
tually take effect until 2021. The rea-
sonable thing is, let’s resolve it now.
This simple proposal I am putting
out in the next few days will make it
public, and in February I hope there
will be a meeting with the Rules Com-
mittee to allow open debate in the
Rules Committee, for Republicans and
Democrats alike to look at this issue
and resolve it, to make any edits or
changes. If there is a different way to
resolve this, I am open to any other
resolution. But for the long-term
health of our government and of the
Senate and how it operates, we have to
resolve this because we can’t have indi-
viduals hanging out there for over a
year and expect that this is going to
get better.
Let me give you some examples. For
over a year, the Assistant Secretary of
Health and Human Services sat out
there and then was returned back to
the President at the end of the session
and will have to start all over again. It
is the same with the Chief Counsel for
Advocacy in the Small Business Ad-
ministration, the inspector general in
the Office of Personnel Management,
Governors for the U.S. Postal Service,
the Assistant Secretary of Commerce,
the Ambassador to Colombia, the Am-
bassador to Morocco, and the General
Counsel for the Department of Navy.
These were all individuals who were
out there for over a year with no ac-
tion, waiting.
We will not get the best and bright-
est in our country to set aside their life
for a nomination process that is over 1
year and then goes back to the White
House, and then they have to start all
over again the next year, and maybe it
goes another year. Who in America can
put their life on hold for all of that
time? We want the best and brightest
to be able to serve. Blocking them with
slowdown tactics will prevent that
from happening in the future.
I am trying to be fair in this process.
Let’s do this the right way, the way we
all know it should be done. Let’s take
it to the Rules Committee. Let’s put a
proposal out there to fix the nomina-
tion process. Let’s get the 60 votes that
are required to resolve the nomination
process through the Rules Committee
to the floor of the Senate and actually
fix that as a standing order. Let’s re-
solve it now, lest this drags on for an-
other 2 years and it never gets better.
This has been a 2-year process to get
to this point, and in the days ahead,
when we release this text, I hope my
colleagues will engage in reasonable
conversation to resolve that. I am open
to that, but I want us to fix the prob-
lem and admit that a problem needs to
be fixed and solved.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas (Mr. SULLIVAN).
WOMEN’S ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND ECONOMIC
EMPOWERMENT ACT
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I rise
today to discuss legislation that Sen-
ator CARDIN and I introduced last year
and successfully worked to move
through the legislative process, with
lots of help from many others.
The Women’s Entrepreneurship and
Economic Empowerment Act was
passed by the House and Senate near
the end of the 115th Congress and was
signed into law in January of this year.
We are thankful that our colleagues in
both Chambers joined us in supporting
this meaningful legislation focused on
improving the lives of women and fam-
ilies around the world.
Because women make up the major-
ity of the world’s poor and are often
held back by gender-specific con-
straints to economic empowerment,
such as lack of access to financial serv-
ices and credit, it was important to
recognize that it is within our power to
help elevate and enable them to
achieve their economic dreams and as-
pirations.
In many corners of the world, cul-
tural and historical barriers that make
it difficult for women to start busi-
nesses, build savings, and make mean-
ingful economic contributions to their
communities are long established and
serve to prevent many women from at-
taining greater stability in their every-
day lives—to the detriment of their
own societies as well as the global
economy.
Building on our own past and experi-
ences in the United States, we can help
women in the world overcome obstacles
that impede their ability to substan-
tially contribute to economic activity
and industry at home and, more broad-
ly, within the world economy.
The Women’s Entrepreneurship and
Economic Empowerment Act provides
an avenue to address this inequality by
tapping into the proven abilities of ex-
isting U.S. Agencies for international
development programs.
USAID, which uses strategic invest-
ments to promote growth and develop-
ment while advancing U.S. interests
and influence, is perfectly situated to
implement this initiative because it
understands how to effectively deploy
resources to—as its mission states—
‘‘lift lives, build communities, and es-
tablish self-sufficiency.’’ The WEEE
Act will help the more than 1 billion
women who are left out of the world’s
formal financial system by working to
close the nearly $300 billion credit gap
that exists for women-owned small and
medium-sized businesses.
Expanding USAID’s microenterprise
development assistance authority to
include small and medium-sized enter-
prises with an emphasis on supporting
those owned, managed, and controlled
by women is critical because if these
promising, industrious entrepreneurs
and innovators are given the oppor-
tunity to succeed, the benefits will un-
doubtedly reach far and wide.
The WEEE Act will also modernize
USAID’s development assistance tool-
kit to include innovative credit scoring
models, financial technology, financial
literacy, insurance, and more to im-
prove property and inheritance rights—
all of which are vital in helping to
overcome deep-rooted cultural and in-
stitutional hurdles that preclude
women from accessing the resources
necessary for economic success.
Finally, the law directs USAID to in-
clude efforts that promote equality and
female empowerment throughout its
programs. This may seem like a small
step, but in reality, it can help trans-
form the way international aid is im-
plemented to the benefit of many
women across the globe, poised to suc-
ceed when provided the same tools and
resources as their peers in nations
where those hurdles are absent.
USAID, especially under the leader-
ship of Mark Green, the Administrator,
does an exceptional job of stretching a
finite amount of resources to achieve
meaningful results in some of the
world’s most impoverished nations.
I have complete confidence that Ad-
ministrator Green and his team will
implement the Women’s Entrepreneur-
ship and Economic Empowerment Act
in a way that will simultaneously, and
even necessarily, work to the benefit of
our international aid mission, while
also helping to uplift and empower
women in countries all over the world
to succeed in a way that has been just
beyond their reach until now.
Research shows investing in women
has a high rate of return, and that is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28JA6.019 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S696 January 28, 2019
exactly what the WEEE Act recognizes
and seeks to capitalize on.
As Senator CARDIN, senior member of
the Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, noted when we introduced the
bill: ‘‘Investment in women creates a
positive cycle of change that can lift
women, families, communities, and en-
tire countries out of poverty, and this
legislation will help us make inroads
toward that important goal.’’
I would like to thank former Chair-
man Ed Royce and Congresswoman
FRANKEL, as well as their staffs, for
their leadership on this bill in the
House.
I would also like to thank Senator
CARDIN for joining me in sponsoring
the bill here in the Senate, as well as
our former colleague and Senate For-
eign Relations Committee Chairman
Bob Corker, for his work to move this
bill through the committee process.
Finally, I would like to acknowledge
the support and assistance provided by
the White House, particularly from
Presidential Advisor Ivanka Trump,
who worked tirelessly to advocate for
this bill, garner support from NGOs,
and ultimately helped us see it across
the finish line.
All of those who worked on this bill
share an understanding that because
women in some parts of the world are
pushed so far to the margins that they
are denied access to even the most
basic financial services, much less
business loans, leveling the playing
field is the right thing to do. If we can
achieve this goal, the world economy
stands to grow significantly.
Now that the WEEE Act has become
law, we have taken one significant step
forward to realizing this laudable aim,
and women in developing nations stand
to benefit from USAID’s upcoming ef-
forts to help them find and secure their
place in our global economy.
The Women’s Entrepreneurship and
Economic Empowerment Act advances
U.S. values and stimulates real, lasting
economic opportunities around the
globe for women. It will change lives
and communities, promote equality,
and help entrepreneurs and innovators
thrive—all of which will benefit the
global economy and the pursuit of
prosperity.
Once again, I extend my thanks and
gratitude to all who have worked so
hard and helped this bill become law,
and I look forward to following its im-
plementation and results.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate be
in a period of morning business, with
Senators permitted to speak therein
for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO BOB LEEPER
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, for
more than 30 years, the men and
women of Paducah, KY, have prospered
with the leadership of my friend, Bob
Leeper, in city, State, and finally coun-
ty government. There are few individ-
uals more appreciated for their public
service in western Kentucky. At the
end of last year, Bob completed his
term as McCracken County judge-exec-
utive, and I would like to take a mo-
ment to offer my gratitude and reflect
on his many years of service.
There is a common expression identi-
fying two types of people who are elect-
ed to office: show horses and work
horses. The first kind thrives when
driving home a point in front of the
camera or in making a bold headline.
On the other hand, a work horse will
forgo acclaim in favor of accomplish-
ment and reject praise for progress.
Without a doubt, Bob has spent his ca-
reer as a work horse. His achievements
will leave a lasting impact on the area
and our Commonwealth.
To say the least, Bob cared little for
party labels. As a matter of fact, dur-
ing his distinguished career, Bob hit
the political ‘‘trifecta’’ of sorts, having
been elected by his constituents as a
registered Democrat, then a Repub-
lican, and lastly as an Independent.
In his first elected office as Paducah
city commissioner, Bob also served as
mayor pro tem and quickly earned his
colleagues’ respect. From there, Bob
won a seat in the Kentucky State Sen-
ate. In Frankfort, Bob set himself
apart as a constructive leader and a
problemsolver. His reputation for han-
dling complex issues with fairness gar-
nered the appreciation of his fellow
senators on both sides of the aisle.
Reelected five times, Bob served for
24 years in Kentucky’s legislature in-
cluding as the chair of the senate ap-
propriations and revenue committee.
His work from this important post dis-
played his integrity, skill, and his
characteristic nature as a work horse.
Bob chose to leave the Senate in 2014,
but that didn’t end his career of public
service. The same year, he was elected
as the McCracken County judge-execu-
tive, the top job in county government.
In that role, Bob had the opportunity
to continue serving his community and
making positive impacts on the lives of
his neighbors. Among his proudest ac-
complishments, he includes a number
of infrastructure improvements at the
courthouse, jail, road department, and
in the local parks. I enjoyed partnering
with him on behalf of workers at
Paducah’s U.S. Department of Energy
site.
For his decades of service in Ken-
tucky, the current members of the Pa-
ducah City Commission wanted to ex-
press their gratitude to Bob at his re-
tirement with a lasting testament to
his work. The commission unani-
mously voted to name a footbridge in
his honor in Paducah. When completed,
the Bob Leeper Bridge will connect the
city and county’s trail systems, a fit-
ting tribute to a man who spent his ca-
reer working to benefit his community.
As he enters his retirement from pub-
lic service, Bob plans to return to his
first calling: treating patients at his
chiropractic clinic. He also will spend
more time volunteering, playing ten-
nis, and relaxing with his beloved wife
Gina. It is my privilege to join so many
in McCracken County to thank Bob for
his three decades of committed vision
and leadership. I ask my Senate col-
leagues to help me congratulate Judge-
Executive Bob Leeper on this mile-
stone and to extend best wishes in his
retirement.
Mr. President, the Paducah Sun re-
cently published an editorial express-
ing appreciation to Bob. I ask unani-
mous consent that the article be print-
ed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Paducah Sun, Jan. 17, 2019]
SINCERE APPRECIATION: WORDS OF THANKS
FOR LONGTIME ELECTED LEADER BOB LEEPER
(By the Editorial Board)
The inspirational quote was painted on
Bob Leeper’s office wall at the McCracken
County Courthouse in 2015, shortly after he
took over as county judge-executive.
‘‘Our deepest fear is not that we are inad-
equate,’’ the quote from author Marianne
Williamson reads. ‘‘Our deepest fear is that
we are powerful beyond measure.’’
The motivational words stayed on that
wall all four years, serving as daily affirma-
tion.
‘‘It’s a reminder that we all have purpose
and sometimes it’s bigger than we even real-
ized and we kind of have to accept that place
that we are in life, and sometimes it’s impor-
tant you take a stand,’’ Leeper said.
A case could be made Leeper’s life purpose,
or at least one of them, was serving his na-
tive Paducah and McCracken County, which
he did in his quiet, transparent and dignified
way for more than half his life across three
offices.
Leeper, 60, served 31 years total—three as a
Paducah city commissioner, 24 as a state
senator, and a sole four-year term as judge
executive.
He did not run for reelection, and turned
over the county’s top leadership post to cur-
rent judge-exec Craig Clymer earlier this
month.
Leeper, a chiropractor by trade, is now en-
joying his ‘‘political retirement,’’ spending
his time treating patients at his clinic, vol-
unteering in the community, and enjoying
one of his favorite hobbies—playing tennis.
He doubts very seriously his name will
ever appear on another ballot, which is sure
to be a healthy change for him but an unfor-
tunate one for the local community.
‘‘Today, I’d say no, I don’t think that’s
going to happen,’’ he said of someday run-
ning again for office. ‘‘I learned from four
years ago that you never say absolutely no,
but I don’t have any vision of anything right
now.’’
Now is the time for us, and we hope area
residents, to thank Leeper for all his hard
work on the public’s behalf at the local and
state levels. He served us honestly and admi-
rably, often eschewing publicity or atten-
tion, and with his constituents’ best inter-
ests in mind.
Frankly, leaders who put their commu-
nities first are rare these days, and Leeper’s
presence and influence will be greatly
missed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28JA6.020 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S697
January 28, 2019
No one could have blamed Leeper if he’s
chosen to call it a career back in 2014, when
he left the Kentucky General Assembly.
However, he stepped up to lead McCracken
County, returning much needed stability to
an office that had seen turbulence during the
previous administration.
‘‘It was an opportunity for us to use some
of the contacts I’d made in Frankfort and
make things better for the community I
grew up in,’’ he said. ‘‘It was difficult at
times, but we made some positive changes.’’
His proudest accomplishments as judge-ex-
ecutive, he told The Sun this week, were
largely centered on infrastructure at the
courthouse, jail, road department, and parks.
They weren’t glamorous, didn’t beg for bold
headlines or TV spots, but they needed
doing.
Leeper’s next words are true to his laid-
back personality:
‘‘Sometimes you don’t get to cut ribbons
and that’s OK with me,’’ he said. ‘‘I was
proud this court took that same attitude and
we were able to do things that needed to be
done, even the kind that you don’t cut rib-
bons on.’’
‘‘We did it all without raising taxes and I
think the county is in a better place from
Judge Clymer and the new court.’’
Join us in congratulating Leeper on a dis-
tinguished successful career. Through his
leadership, we have a great example for fu-
ture leaders to emulate.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
REMEMBERING DR. LOUIS BALART
∑ Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, today I
want to speak as a Senator and a phy-
sician. Many know that I am a doctor,
but specifically I am a hepatologist. I
studied and treated those with liver
disease. One of my colleagues, Dr.
Louis Balart, just passed away; a friend
who treated many patients with liver
disease and made an incredible impact
upon the lives of those whom he treat-
ed in the State of Louisiana and indeed
across the Nation. Dr. Balart has a re-
markable story. His family came to the
United States from Cuba when he was
a child. His father escaped Cuba after
his family was sent ahead to the States
by drinking blood that he had drained
from his own body. He went to the
Cuban captors and said, ‘‘I’m bleeding
internally, I need to go to Miami to get
treated.’’ As a doctor himself, he knew
that this would happen. With this re-
markable story, he was able to rejoin
his family that had moved to the
United States, fleeing Castro’s Cuba.
As is the case of many such stories, the
family succeeded tremendously, Louis
Balart being among them. I mentioned
before that he was an influential physi-
cian, but he was also a teacher with
LSU School of Medicine in New Orleans
and Tulane School of Medicine. He also
headed the liver transplant unit at the
Tulane Medical Center. He passed his
gifts down and now his son, Carter
Balart, is a gastroenterologist in Baton
Rouge, whom I have had the pleasure
of working on patients with. Today I
honor Dr. Louis Balart, a father, hus-
band, and physician who contributed
greatly to his adopted country, the
United States of America. He left it
richer because of his presence.∑
TRIBUTE TO BERNADINE REED
∑ Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. Mr.
President, today I want to recognize
school bus driver Ms. Bernadine Reed,
whose heroic actions ensured the safe-
ty of 40 schoolchildren last week in
Darlington County, SC.
When a car ran into her stopped
school bus on Tuesday, January 22 and
caused the bus to catch on fire, Ms.
Reed took action to make sure each
and every child got off the bus safely
and quickly. Because of her leadership
and quick action, no one on the bus
was injured, although the bus itself
was consumed by flames minutes after
the crash.
Although Ms. Reed had spent only 45
days on the job, the actions she took in
this scary situation ensured the com-
plete safety of all 40 of her school-
children. While she insists she is ‘‘just
a mother,’’ Ms. Reed certainly deserves
the title of hero.
I would like to join in the rest of the
Darlington community and the State
in recognizing her act of heroism and
thanking her for assuring the safety of
her schoolchildren.∑
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF
GREENWOOD INDEX-JOURNAL
∑ Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. Mr.
President, today it is my pleasure to
honor the Greenwood Index-Journal, a
newspaper that is celebrating 100 years
in the Greenwood, SC, community.
Founded in February 1919, the Index-
Journal started as an office above a
movie theatre and a printing press on a
dirt floor. Although much has changed
100 years later, the Index-Journal’s
commitment to keeping the residents
of Greenwood informed has not.
The Greenwood Index-Journal re-
mains owned and operated by local
residents themselves, with family
members of the original co-owners still
running the paper today. It is truly a
paper run by the people, for the people.
The Index-Journal has remained vigi-
lant in its coverage of the Lakelands
area, and continues to be a vital part of
the Greenwood community.
I congratulate all of the Index-Jour-
nal leadership and staff for 100 years of
committed and meaningful journalism
and look forward to their presence in
our State for years to come.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message from the President of the
United States was communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
REPORT RELATIVE TO THE
ISSUANCE OF AN EXECUTIVE
ORDER WITH RESPECT TO VEN-
EZUELA THAT TAKES ADDI-
TIONAL STEPS WITH RESPECT
TO THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY
DECLARED IN EXECUTIVE
ORDER 13692 ON MARCH 8, 2015—
PM 2
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report, which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA)
(50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), I hereby report
that I have issued an Executive Order
with respect to Venezuela that takes
additional steps with respect to the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 13692 of March 8, 2015, and relied
upon for additional steps taken in Ex-
ecutive Order 13808 of August 24, 2017,
Executive Order 13827 of March 19, 2018,
Executive Order 13835 of May 21, 2018,
and Executive Order 13850 of November
1, 2018.
The Executive Order I have issued ac-
counts for the swearing in of a legiti-
mate Interim President of Venezuela,
and addresses actions by persons affili-
ated with the illegitimate Maduro re-
gime, including human rights viola-
tions and abuses in response to anti-
Maduro protests, arbitrary arrest and
detention of anti-Maduro protestors,
curtailment of press freedom, harass-
ment of political opponents, and con-
tinued attempts to undermine the In-
terim President of Venezuela and un-
dermine the Venezuelan National As-
sembly. The Executive Order amends
subsection (d) of section 6 of Executive
Order 13692, subsection (d) of section 3
of Executive Order 13808, subsection (d)
of section 3 of Executive Order 13827,
subsection (d) of section 3 of Executive
Order 13835, and subsection (d) of sec-
tion 6 of Executive Order 13850, to read:
‘‘(d) the term ‘‘Government of Ven-
ezuela’’ includes the state and Govern-
ment of Venezuela, any political sub-
division, agency, or instrumentality
thereof, including the Central Bank of
Venezuela and Petroleos de Venezuela,
S.A. (PDVSA), any person owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly, by
the foregoing, and any person who has
acted or purported to act directly or
indirectly for or on behalf of, any of
the foregoing, including as a member
of the Maduro regime.’’
I am enclosing a copy of the Execu-
tive Order I have issued.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, January 25, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.005 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S698 January 28, 2019
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on January 25,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the House has agreed to the
amendment of the Senate to the joint
resolution (H.J. Res. 28) making fur-
ther continuing appropriations for fis-
cal year 2019, and for other purposes.
ENROLLED JOINT RESOLUTION SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on January 25,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker had signed the fol-
lowing enrolled joint resolution:
H.J. Res. 28. Joint resolution making fur-
ther continuing appropriations for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes.
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the en-
rolled joint resolution was signed on
January 25, 2019, during the adjourn-
ment of the Senate, by the Acting
President pro tempore (Mr. MCCON-
NELL).
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:02 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House disagrees to
the amendment of the Senate to the
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 31) making
further continuing appropriations for
the Department of Homeland Security
for fiscal year 2019, and for other pur-
poses, agrees to the conference asked
by the Senate on the disagreeing votes
of the two Houses thereon; and ap-
points Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina,
Ms. LEE of California, Messrs.
CUELLAR, AGUILAR, Ms. GRANGER,
Messrs. FLEISCHMANN, GRAVES of Geor-
gia, and PALAZZO, be the managers of
the conference on the part of the
House.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 648. An act making appropriations for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and
for other purposes.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
CARPER, Mr. UDALL, and Mr. VAN
HOLLEN):
S. 232. A bill to amend the Ethics in Gov-
ernment Act of 1978 to require individuals
nominated or appointed to Senate-confirmed
positions or to positions of a confidential or
policymaking character to disclose certain
types of contributions made or solicited by,
or at the request of, the individuals; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and
Mr. CARPER):
S. 233. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking
Water Amendments of 1977 to require the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to report certain hiring to carry out
the Safe Drinking Water Act; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, and Ms. ERNST):
S. 234. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to require the disclosure of
the annual percentage rates applicable to
Federal student loans; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Ms. ERNST,
Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. JONES,
Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. INHOFE, and Mr.
REED):
S. 235. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Education to award grants to establish
teacher leader development programs; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and
Mr. GRASSLEY):
S. 236. A bill to require a Special Counsel
report, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 237. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to permit nurse practi-
tioners and physician assistants to satisfy
the documentation requirement under the
Medicare program for coverage of certain
shoes for individuals with diabetes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Ms. ROSEN, Ms. WARREN, and Mr.
GARDNER):
S. 238. A bill to amend the State Depart-
ment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to mon-
itor and combat anti-Semitism globally, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. 239. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of
Christa McAuliffe; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr.
JONES):
S. 240. A bill to require the Internal Rev-
enue Service to establish, incrementally
over five years, a nationwide program to pro-
vide personal identification numbers to tax-
payers to help prevent tax-related identity
theft; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. BENNET:
S. 241. A bill to provide for the designation
of certain wilderness areas, recreation man-
agement areas, and conservation areas in the
State of Colorado, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 242. A bill to require the Secretary of
Agriculture to release reversionary and re-
served interests in certain land in the
Coconino National Forest in the State of Ar-
izona; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 243. A bill to authorize, direct, expedite,
and facilitate a land exchange in Bullhead
City, Arizona, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. MCSALLY:
S. 244. A bill to provide for the
unencumbering of title to non-Federal land
owned by Embry-Riddle Aeronautical Uni-
versity, Florida, for purposes of economic de-
velopment by conveyance of the Federal re-
versionary interest to the University; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
WARNER):
S. 245. A bill to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2019 for intelligence and intel-
ligence-related activities of the United
States Government, the Community Man-
agement Account, and the Central Intel-
ligence Agency Retirement and Disability
System; to the Select Committee on Intel-
ligence.
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mrs. MURRAY, Ms. HARRIS,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. COONS, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. UDALL, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. REED, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. BROWN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 246. A bill to block the implementation
of certain presidential actions that restrict
individuals from certain countries from en-
tering the United States; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr.
WARNER):
S. 247. A bill to designate additions to the
Rough Mountain Wilderness and the Rich
Hole Wilderness of the George Washington
National Forest, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
By Mr. TILLIS:
S. 248. A bill to ensure that the Secretary
of the Interior collaborates fully with State
and local authorities and certain nonprofit
entities in managing the Corolla Wild Horse
population on Federal land; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. CARPER, Mr. MARKEY, Ms.
HIRONO, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. BROWN, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. LEAHY,
Ms. CANTWELL, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. DURBIN, and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. Res. 32. A resolution recognizing Janu-
ary 27, 2019, as the anniversary of the first
refugee and Muslim ban, and urging the
President to demonstrate true leadership on
refugee resettlement; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. CASEY):
S. Res. 33. A resolution supporting the con-
tributions of Catholic schools; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 18:26 Apr 11, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\S28JA9.REC S28JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S699
January 28, 2019
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 1
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1, a bill to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes.
S. 30
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 30, a bill to require the
Secretary of Defense to develop and
implement a plan to provide chiro-
practic health care services for certain
covered beneficiaries as part of the
TRICARE program.
S. 39
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 39, a bill to provide that Mem-
bers of Congress may not receive pay
after October 1 of any fiscal year in
which Congress has not approved a con-
current resolution on the budget and
passed the regular appropriations bills.
S. 64
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) and the Senator from Iowa
(Ms. ERNST) were added as cosponsors
of S. 64, a bill to prohibit brand name
drug companies from compensating ge-
neric drug companies to delay the
entry of a generic drug into the mar-
ket, and to prohibit biological product
manufacturers from compensating bio-
similar and interchangeable companies
to delay the entry of biosimilar bio-
logical products and interchangeable
biological products.
S. 97
At the request of Mr. SANDERS, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
97, a bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for
the importation of affordable and safe
drugs by wholesale distributors, phar-
macies, and individuals.
S. 104
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN), the Senator from Utah
(Mr. ROMNEY), the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. WICKER), the Senator from
North Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN), the Sen-
ator from Wisconsin (Mr. JOHNSON) and
the Senator from West Virginia (Mrs.
CAPITO) were added as cosponsors of S.
104, a bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic
continuing resolutions.
S. 113
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
names of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE) and the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 113, a bill to appropriate
funds for pay and allowances of ex-
cepted Federal employees, and for
other purposes.
S. 152
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 152, a bill to direct the
President to impose penalties pursuant
to denial orders with respect to certain
Chinese telecommunications compa-
nies that are in violation of the export
control or sanctions laws of the United
States, and for other purposes.
S. 162
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
West Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN) and the
Senator from Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 162, a
bill to provide back pay to low-wage
contractor employees, and for other
purposes.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
178, a bill to condemn gross human
rights violations of ethnic Turkic Mus-
lims in Xinjiang, and calling for an end
to arbitrary detention, torture, and
harassment of these communities in-
side and outside China.
S. 200
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 200, a bill to prohibit the con-
duct of a first-use nuclear strike absent
a declaration of war by Congress.
S. 201
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 201, a bill to amend
title 13, United States Code, to make
clear that each decennial census, as re-
quired for the apportionment of Rep-
resentatives in Congress among the
several States, shall tabulate the total
number of persons in each State, and
to provide that no information regard-
ing United States citizenship or immi-
gration status may be elicited in any
such census.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 203, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently
extend the railroad track maintenance
credit, and for other purposes.
S. 226
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) and the Senator
from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO) were added as
cosponsors of S. 226, a bill to clarify
the rights of Indians and Indian Tribes
on Indian lands under the National
Labor Relations Act.
S.J. RES. 3
At the request of Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
the names of the Senator from Ne-
braska (Mrs. FISCHER) and the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. PERDUE) were added
as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 3, a joint res-
olution proposing an amendment to the
Constitution of the United States rel-
ative to balancing the budget.
S. RES. 22
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 22, a resolution condemning
the terrorist attack in Nairobi, Kenya
on January 15, 2019, and offering sin-
cere condolences to all of the victims,
their families and friends, and the peo-
ple of Kenya.
S. RES. 23
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 23, a resolution sup-
porting the goals and ideals of Coun-
tering International Parental Child Ab-
duction Month and expressing the
sense of the Senate that Congress
should raise awareness of the harm
caused by international parental child
abduction.
S. RES. 27
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. CASSIDY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 27, a resolution calling for a
prompt multinational freedom of navi-
gation operation in the Black Sea and
urging the cancellation of the Nord
Stream 2 pipeline.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Mr. JONES):
S. 240. A bill to require the Internal
Revenue Service to establish, incre-
mentally over five years, a nationwide
program to provide personal identifica-
tion numbers to taxpayers to help pre-
vent tax-related identity theft; to the
Committee on Finance.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, this is
the first day in which Americans
across the country are eligible to file
their 2018 tax returns. I rise today to
introduce with my colleague from Ala-
bama, Senator JONES, the Taxpayer
Identity Protection Act. Our bill seeks
to help prevent American taxpayers,
including our seniors, from falling vic-
tim to identity theft and tax refund
fraud.
Last year, the IRS received nearly
142 million individual income tax re-
turns. Nearly 75 percent of these re-
turns were eligible for refunds. For the
most part, these refunds are the return
of dollars belonging to taxpayers that
were overwithheld from their pay-
checks in the prior year. Millions of
American families eagerly await these
tax refunds—money they may need to
pay off debts, settle medical bills, or
plug gaps in the family budget.
Unfortunately for some Americans,
these refunds never come or are long
delayed due to identity theft. Crimi-
nals have figured out that, in many in-
stances, it is cheaper and easier for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.014 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S700 January 28, 2019
them to steal taxpayers’ identities and
hijack their tax refunds than it is to
traffic in drugs or rob banks.
Identity theft-refund fraud occurs
when a criminal files a false tax return
using a stolen Social Security number
and other sensitive personal informa-
tion from sources such as hospitals,
schools, or assisted living facilities,
sometimes by recruiting employees to
steal that personal information. The
fraudster then uses the data to prepare
fraudulent tax returns. The thieves
make sure to file early—as soon as the
tax season opens in January—to in-
crease their odds that they can get a
tax refund before the real taxpayer who
is entitled to the refund files his or her
return.
The criminals are known to hold
what they call make it rain parties,
where they bring stolen laptops to a
motel room with internet access and
work together churning out scores of
these fake tax returns. These criminals
work under the premise of ‘‘file early,
file often.’’ Once the thieves file the
fraudulent tax return, the IRS proc-
esses it and issues the tax refund. With
each refund worth on average $2,778,
the money can add up pretty quickly
for these criminals.
This is by no means a victimless
crime. In 2017, the Federal Trade Com-
mission received more than 371,000
complaints of identity theft, including
82,000 complaints related to employ-
ment or tax refund fraud. Taxpayers
who have their refunds hijacked by
fraudsters often have to wait for years
to get everything straightened out and
to get the refunds to which they are le-
gally entitled. Many, sadly, are re-
victimized year after year. A substan-
tial number become victims of other
forms of identity theft.
Worst of all, victims are often the
most vulnerable. The inspector general
estimates that 76,000 very low income
senior citizens were victims of tax
fraud-identity theft in the year 2010
alone.
In 2016, the Lewiston, ME, Sun Jour-
nal published a story about Rick
Zaccaro and Bonnie Washuk, a married
couple who were the victims of tax
fraud. They had filed their taxes in late
January of 2015, and Rick, a retired fi-
nancial analyst for the Postal Service,
was checking the status of their return
online in early February. That is when
he learned they were the victims of
identity theft. Someone had filed a tax
return and claimed a tax refund using
their names, dates of birth, and Social
Security numbers. That fraudulent
claim was paid by the IRS while their
legitimate tax filing, with their appro-
priate W–2s, was stuck in limbo.
It took months of worrying, frozen
bank accounts, and many calls to mul-
tiple government offices for this couple
to straighten things out. When they fi-
nally received their overdue tax refund,
they also received something called an
identity protection personal identifica-
tion number, better known as an IP
PIN.
To provide relief to some victims of
identity theft, the IRS began issuing
IP PINs to eligible taxpayers in fiscal
year 2011. An IP PIN is a six-digit num-
ber assigned to eligible taxpayers that
allows tax returns and refunds to be
processed without delay and helps pre-
vent the misuse of an individual’s So-
cial Security number on fraudulent in-
come tax returns.
Here is how it works. If a return is
filed electronically with an individual’s
Social Security number and an incor-
rect or missing IP PIN, the IRS’s sys-
tem automatically rejects that tax re-
turn until it is submitted with the cor-
rect IP PIN or it is filed on paper. If
the same conditions occur on a paper-
filed return, the IRS will delay its
processing and any refund that may be
due while the Agency determines if the
return actually belongs to the tax-
payer.
In 2013, the IRS began a pilot pro-
gram in which it offered IP PINs to all
taxpayers—not just those who were
victims of identity theft—who filed
their Federal tax returns as residents
of Florida, Georgia, or the District of
Columbia. According to the IRS, these
three locations were chosen because
they have the highest per capita per-
centage of tax-related identity theft in
the country. Taxpayers in these three
jurisdictions may opt in to the IP PIN
program if they want that extra layer
of identity protection, even if they
have not been victims of identity theft.
In preparation for last year’s filing
season, the IRS issued nearly 3.5 mil-
lion IP PINs to taxpayers. That is a
substantial increase from the 770,000 in
2013. According to the IRS, within just
a month, it had rejected nearly 7,400
fraudulent tax returns that had been
filed electronically. As of March 15,
2018, it had stopped nearly 1,500 paper-
filed tax returns. This shows that this
system works.
If a taxpayer has a special PIN num-
ber that has to appear on his or her or
their tax return before the IRS will
process the form electronically and
issue the refund, it will stop a crimi-
nal, who would not have access to that
special, individualized PIN number,
from receiving someone else’s tax re-
fund.
The bipartisan Taxpayer Identity
Protection Act of 2019 that the Senator
from Alabama and I are introducing
today would expand and make perma-
nent the IRS’s IP PIN pilot program to
help combat identity theft-refund fraud
across the Nation. Specifically, our bill
would authorize the IRS to expand its
pilot program nationally in phases over
a 5-year period. Expanding the program
would give all taxpayers, ultimately,
the opportunity to further protect
themselves from falling victim to tax
refund fraud and identity theft while
also saving taxpayers billions of dollars
every year in tax refunds that are paid
not to the taxpayers who deserve them
but, rather, to criminals who are im-
personating the taxpayers who deserve
the refund.
Having an IP PIN has proven to pro-
tect against identity theft. I am
pleased to report that the IRS supports
expansion of this vital program over
the next 5 years.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to support the adoption of the
Taxpayer Identity Protection Act of
2019. This is a concrete action we can
take to help protect taxpayers and to
ensure that tax refunds go to the tax-
payers who deserve these refunds, who
are entitled to these refunds, and that
they don’t get misdirected to a crimi-
nal who is seeking to rip off a tax-
payer.
By Mr. KAINE (for himself and
Mr. WARNER):
S. 247. A bill to designate additions
to the Rough Mountain Wilderness and
the Rich Hole Wilderness of the George
Washington National Forest, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, this bill
authorizes additions to two existing
wilderness areas within the George
Washington National Forest in Bath
County, Virginia. This text represents
years of negotiation and compromise
among Virginia stakeholders who rely
in different ways on the GW Forest.
In many parts of America, Federal
land management is controversial.
Some may view these lands as reposi-
tories for timber, energy, or minerals.
Others may enjoy using recreational
trails through them. Others may be-
lieve that they should be left to nature
and not disturbed. The truth, of course,
is that all of these uses are important;
the conflict lies in agreeing on which
lands are best suited to which pur-
poses.
In the lead-up to the latest multi-
year GW Forest Management Plan,
various forest users came together to
see if they could find reasonable com-
promises that would avoid years of un-
productive disagreement and litiga-
tion. This group, known as the George
Washington National Forest Stake-
holder Collaborative, succeeded.
Through hard work and consensus, the
Collaborative made joint recommenda-
tions to the U.S. Forest Service for for-
est management and protection. Pres-
ervation advocates consented to timber
harvest and other active forest restora-
tion and management in certain areas,
while forest products interests con-
sented to wilderness and light manage-
ment in other areas. Following this
fruitful collaboration, the Forest Serv-
ice convened the Lower Cowpasture
Restoration and Management Project,
bringing together the Collaborative
and other stakeholders to help develop
management activities on this par-
ticular part of the Forest in Bath
County. Again, this collaborative suc-
ceeded, with everyone getting some of
what they want and giving some
ground.
The Collaborative has now come to-
gether to support the wilderness addi-
tions in this bill, which designates 4,500
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28JA6.008 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S701
January 28, 2019
acres to be added to the Rich Hole Wil-
derness Area and 1,000 acres to be
added to the Rough Mountain Wilder-
ness Area. I am proud to partner on
this with my colleague Senator MARK
WARNER, and we are following in the
path blazed by Senator John Warner
and Representative Rick Boucher, who
led the original Virginia Wilderness
Act in 1984.
Taking care of our Nation’s public
lands is good for the economy and good
for the environment. Land disputes
may often be contentious, but this ex-
ample proves they don’t have to be.
When everyone comes to the table and
invests the necessary time, we can find
common ground. I hope this will be a
lesson for us in other tough policy
challenges, and I encourage the Senate
to support this bill.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 32—RECOG-
NIZING JANUARY 27, 2019, AS THE
ANNIVERSARY OF THE FIRST
REFUGEE AND MUSLIM BAN,
AND URGING THE PRESIDENT TO
DEMONSTRATE TRUE LEADER-
SHIP ON REFUGEE RESETTLE-
MENT
Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself, Mr.
CARPER, Mr. MARKEY, Ms. HIRONO, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BROWN,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. LEAHY, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Ms. SMITH, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. DURBIN,
and Ms. DUCKWORTH) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 32
Whereas the world is in the midst of the
worst global displacement crisis in history,
with more than 25,400,000 refugees worldwide,
according to estimates from the United Na-
tions High Commissioner for Refugees (re-
ferred to in this Resolution as ‘‘UNHCR’’);
Whereas UNHCR estimated that nearly
1,200,000 refugees were in need of resettle-
ment to a third country in 2018, and this pro-
jection continues to grow in 2019;
Whereas the United States Refugee Admis-
sions Program (referred to in this Resolution
as ‘‘USRAP’’) is a life-saving solution crit-
ical to global humanitarian efforts, which—
(1) strengthens global security;
(2) leverages United States foreign policy
goals;
(3) supports regional host countries; and
(4) serves individuals and families in need;
Whereas the United States has been a glob-
al leader in—
(1) responding to displacement crises
around the world; and
(2) promoting the safety, health, and well-
being of refugees and displaced persons;
Whereas refugees are the most vetted trav-
elers to enter the United States and are sub-
ject to extensive screening checks, including
in person interviews, biometric data checks,
and multiple interagency checks;
Whereas the United States leverages reset-
tlement to encourage other countries—
(1) to keep their doors open to refugees;
(2) to allow refugee children to attend
school; and
(3) to allow refugee adults to work;
Whereas refugees contribute to their com-
munities by starting businesses, paying
taxes, sharing their cultural traditions, and
being good neighbors;
Whereas refugees contribute more to soci-
ety than they consume in State-funded serv-
ices, including costs relating to schooling
and health care;
Whereas, for more than 40 years the United
States resettled up to 200,000 refugees per
year, with an average ceiling of 95,000 refu-
gees per year, and an average of 80,000 refu-
gees per year actually being resettled in the
United States;
Whereas the United States has abdicated
its leadership by setting a record low refugee
admissions goal in fiscal year 2019 of 30,000;
Whereas, on January 27, 2017, President
Donald J. Trump issued Executive Order
13769, which placed a 90-day suspension on
the admission into the United States of indi-
viduals from 7 Muslim-majority countries
and suspended USRAP for 120 days; and
Whereas, since issuing that executive
order, President Trump has taken further ex-
ecutive and administrative actions—
(1) to restrict the admission into the
United States of people from certain Mus-
lim-majority countries; and
(2) to dismantle USRAP, which has lowered
the capacity of, and diminished the institu-
tional memory and experience in, USRAP:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) reaffirms our Nation’s proud history of
refugee resettlement;
(2) recognizes January 27, 2019, as the 2nd
anniversary of the executive order that sus-
pended the admission of refugees and indi-
viduals from specified Muslim-majority
countries;
(3) reaffirms the strong bipartisan commit-
ment of the United States to promote the
safety, health, and well-being of refugees, in-
cluding by facilitating the resettlement in
the United States of refugees who cannot
safely return to their homes or rebuild their
lives in countries from which they fled to
preserve their lives;
(4) emphasizes the importance of USRAP
as a critical tool for United States global
leadership;
(5) recognizes the profound consequences
faced by refugees and their families who
have been stranded, separated, and scarred
by existing United States refugee policies,
which have stranded many refugees who
were in the middle of the refugee resettle-
ment process and have left other refugees
with little hope of anticipated entry into the
United States; and
(6) calls upon the United States Govern-
ment—
(A) to resettle a robust number of refugees
to meet its share of the global need during
fiscal years 2019 and 2020, with an emphasis
on rebuilding USRAP and returning to his-
toric levels of refugee admissions;
(B) to operate USRAP in good faith in
order to meet the stated objectives of the
program and to restore historic levels of ref-
ugee arrivals;
(C) to uphold its international leadership
role in responding to displacement crises
with humanitarian assistance and protection
of the most vulnerable populations;
(D) to improve consultation with Congress
and adherence to the clear congressional in-
tent of the Refugee Act of 1980; and
(E) to recommit to offering freedom from
oppression and resettling the most vulner-
able refugees regardless of their country of
origin or religious beliefs.
SENATE RESOLUTION 33—SUP-
PORTING THE CONTRIBUTIONS
OF CATHOLIC SCHOOLS
Mr. TOOMEY (for himself, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. CASEY)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions:
S. RES. 33
Whereas Catholic schools in the United
States are internationally acclaimed for
their academic excellence and provide stu-
dents with more than just an exceptional
scholastic education;
Whereas Catholic schools instill a broad,
values-added education emphasizing the life-
long development of moral, intellectual,
physical, and social values in young people
in the United States;
Whereas Catholic schools serve the United
States by providing a diverse student popu-
lation, from all regions of the country and
all socioeconomic backgrounds, a strong aca-
demic and moral foundation, and of that stu-
dent population—
(1) more than 38 percent of students are
from racial and ethnic minority back-
grounds; and
(2) 19 percent of students are from non-
Catholic families;
Whereas Catholic schools are an affordable
option for parents, particularly in under-
served urban areas;
Whereas Catholic schools produce students
who are strongly dedicated to their faith,
values, families, and communities by pro-
viding an intellectually stimulating environ-
ment rich in spiritual, character, and moral
development;
Whereas Catholic schools are committed to
community service, producing graduates who
hold ‘‘helping others’’ as a core value;
Whereas the total Catholic school student
enrollment for the 2018–2019 academic year is
almost 1,800,000, with a student-teacher ratio
of 12 to 1;
Whereas the Catholic high school gradua-
tion rate is 99 percent, with 87 percent of
graduates attending 4-year colleges;
Whereas, in the 1972 pastoral message con-
cerning Catholic education, the National
Conference of Catholic Bishops stated: ‘‘Edu-
cation is one of the most important ways by
which the Church fulfills its commitment to
the dignity of the person and building of
community. Community is central to edu-
cation ministry, both as a necessary condi-
tion and an ardently desired goal. The edu-
cational efforts of the Church, therefore,
must be directed to forming persons-in-com-
munity; for the education of the individual
Christian is important not only to his soli-
tary destiny, but also the destinies of the
many communities in which he lives.’’;
Whereas the week of January 27, 2019, to
February 2, 2019, has been designated as Na-
tional Catholic Schools Week by the Na-
tional Catholic Educational Association and
the United States Conference of Catholic
Bishops, and January 30, 2019, has been des-
ignated National Appreciation Day for
Catholic Schools;
Whereas National Catholic Schools Week
was first established in 1974 and has been
celebrated annually for the past 45 years;
Whereas, while Catholic schools must work
hard to maintain enrollment, the demand
and enthusiasm for Catholic schools remains
strong;
Whereas 30 percent of Catholic schools
have waiting lists for admission, and new
schools are opening across the United States;
and
Whereas the theme for National Catholic
Schools Week 2019 is Catholic Schools:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.018 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S702 January 28, 2019
Learn. Serve. Lead. Succeed.: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals of National Catholic
Schools Week, an event—
(A) cosponsored by the National Catholic
Educational Association and the United
States Conference of Catholic Bishops; and
(B) established to recognize the vital con-
tributions of the thousands of Catholic ele-
mentary and secondary schools in the United
States;
(2) applauds the National Catholic Edu-
cational Association and the United States
Conference of Catholic Bishops on the selec-
tion of a theme that all people can celebrate;
and
(3) supports—
(A) the continued dedication of Catholic
schools, students, parents, and teachers
across the United States to academic excel-
lence; and
(B) the key role that Catholic schools, stu-
dents, parents, and teachers across the
United States play in promoting and ensur-
ing a brighter, stronger future for the United
States.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 56. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1, to make improvements to certain
defense and security assistance provisions
and to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United States-
Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and
to halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian
people, and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 57. Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr. WAR-
NER) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 58. Mr. SCOTT, of South Carolina sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by him to the bill S. 1, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 56. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1, to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end, add the following:
TITLE V—AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF
FORCE TO DEFEND THE KURDS IN SYRIA
SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Authoriza-
tion for Use of Military Force in Defense of
the Kurds in Syria Resolution of 2019’’.
SEC. 502. AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF UNITED
STATES ARMED FORCES.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—The President is au-
thorized to use the Armed Forces of the
United States as the President determines to
be necessary and appropriate in order to de-
fend the Kurds in Syria.
(b) WAR POWERS RESOLUTION REQUIRE-
MENTS.—
(1) SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.—
Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War
Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1547(a)(1)), Con-
gress declares that this section is intended
to constitute specific statutory authoriza-
tion within the meaning of section 5(b) of the
War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1544(b)).
(2) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Nothing in this title supersedes any
requirements of the War Powers Resolution
(50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.).
SA 57. Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
WARNER) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1, to make improvements to cer-
tain defense and security assistance
provisions and to authorize the appro-
priation of funds to Israel, to reauthor-
ize the United States-Jordan Defense
Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt the
wholesale slaughter of the Syrian peo-
ple, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
DIVISION ll—INTELLIGENCE AUTHOR-
IZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018
AND 2019
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This division may be
cited as the ‘‘Damon Paul Nelson and Mat-
thew Young Pollard Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this division is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Explanatory statement.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified Schedule of Authoriza-
tions.
Sec. 103. Intelligence Community Manage-
ment Account.
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DIS-
ABILITY SYSTEM
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 202. Computation of annuities for em-
ployees of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency.
TITLE III—GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY MATTERS
Sec. 301. Restriction on conduct of intel-
ligence activities.
Sec. 302. Increase in employee compensation
and benefits authorized by law.
Sec. 303. Modification of special pay author-
ity for science, technology, en-
gineering, or mathematics posi-
tions and addition of special
pay authority for cyber posi-
tions.
Sec. 304. Modification of appointment of
Chief Information Officer of the
Intelligence Community.
Sec. 305. Director of National Intelligence
review of placement of posi-
tions within the intelligence
community on the Executive
Schedule.
Sec. 306. Supply Chain and Counterintel-
ligence Risk Management Task
Force.
Sec. 307. Consideration of adversarial tele-
communications and cybersecu-
rity infrastructure when shar-
ing intelligence with foreign
governments and entities.
Sec. 308. Cyber protection support for the
personnel of the intelligence
community in positions highly
vulnerable to cyber attack.
Sec. 309. Modification of authority relating
to management of supply-chain
risk.
Sec. 310. Limitations on determinations re-
garding certain security classi-
fications.
Sec. 311. Joint Intelligence Community
Council.
Sec. 312. Intelligence community informa-
tion technology environment.
Sec. 313. Report on development of secure
mobile voice solution for intel-
ligence community.
Sec. 314. Policy on minimum insider threat
standards.
Sec. 315. Submission of intelligence commu-
nity policies.
Sec. 316. Expansion of intelligence commu-
nity recruitment efforts.
TITLE IV—MATTERS RELATING TO ELE-
MENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY
Subtitle A—Office of the Director of
National Intelligence
Sec. 401. Authority for protection of current
and former employees of the Of-
fice of the Director of National
Intelligence.
Sec. 402. Designation of the program man-
ager-information sharing envi-
ronment.
Sec. 403. Technical modification to the exec-
utive schedule.
Sec. 404. Chief Financial Officer of the Intel-
ligence Community.
Sec. 405. Chief Information Officer of the In-
telligence Community.
Subtitle B—Central Intelligence Agency
Sec. 411. Central Intelligence Agency sub-
sistence for personnel assigned
to austere locations.
Sec. 412. Special rules for certain monthly
workers’ compensation pay-
ments and other payments for
Central Intelligence Agency
personnel.
Sec. 413. Expansion of security protective
service jurisdiction of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 414. Repeal of foreign language pro-
ficiency requirement for cer-
tain senior level positions in
the Central Intelligence Agen-
cy.
Subtitle C—Office of Intelligence and Coun-
terintelligence of Department of Energy
Sec. 421. Consolidation of Department of En-
ergy Offices of Intelligence and
Counterintelligence.
Sec. 422. Establishment of Energy Infra-
structure Security Center.
Sec. 423. Repeal of Department of Energy In-
telligence Executive Com-
mittee and budget reporting re-
quirement.
Subtitle D—Other Elements
Sec. 431. Plan for designation of counter-
intelligence component of De-
fense Security Service as an
element of intelligence commu-
nity.
Sec. 432. Notice not required for private en-
tities.
Sec. 433. Framework for roles, missions, and
functions of Defense Intel-
ligence Agency.
Sec. 434. Establishment of advisory board
for National Reconnaissance
Office.
Sec. 435. Collocation of certain Department
of Homeland Security personnel
at field locations.
TITLE V—ELECTION MATTERS
Sec. 501. Report on cyber attacks by foreign
governments against United
States election infrastructure.
Sec. 502. Review of intelligence commu-
nity’s posture to collect against
and analyze Russian efforts to
influence the Presidential elec-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.020 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S703
January 28, 2019
Sec. 503. Assessment of foreign intelligence
threats to Federal elections.
Sec. 504. Strategy for countering Russian
cyber threats to United States
elections.
Sec. 505. Assessment of significant Russian
influence campaigns directed at
foreign elections and referenda.
Sec. 506. Foreign counterintelligence and
cybersecurity threats to Fed-
eral election campaigns.
Sec. 507. Information sharing with State
election officials.
Sec. 508. Notification of significant foreign
cyber intrusions and active
measures campaigns directed at
elections for Federal offices.
Sec. 509. Designation of counterintelligence
officer to lead election security
matters.
TITLE VI—SECURITY CLEARANCES
Sec. 601. Definitions.
Sec. 602. Reports and plans relating to secu-
rity clearances and background
investigations.
Sec. 603. Improving the process for security
clearances.
Sec. 604. Goals for promptness of determina-
tions regarding security clear-
ances.
Sec. 605. Security Executive Agent.
Sec. 606. Report on unified, simplified, Gov-
ernmentwide standards for po-
sitions of trust and security
clearances.
Sec. 607. Report on clearance in person con-
cept.
Sec. 608. Budget request documentation on
funding for background inves-
tigations.
Sec. 609. Reports on reciprocity for security
clearances inside of depart-
ments and agencies.
Sec. 610. Intelligence community reports on
security clearances.
Sec. 611. Periodic report on positions in the
intelligence community that
can be conducted without ac-
cess to classified information,
networks, or facilities.
Sec. 612. Information sharing program for
positions of trust and security
clearances.
Sec. 613. Report on protections for confiden-
tiality of whistleblower-related
communications.
TITLE VII—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Matters Relating to Russia and
Other Foreign Powers
Sec. 701. Limitation relating to establish-
ment or support of cybersecu-
rity unit with the Russian Fed-
eration.
Sec. 702. Report on returning Russian com-
pounds.
Sec. 703. Assessment of threat finance relat-
ing to Russia.
Sec. 704. Notification of an active measures
campaign.
Sec. 705. Notification of travel by accredited
diplomatic and consular per-
sonnel of the Russian Federa-
tion in the United States.
Sec. 706. Report on outreach strategy ad-
dressing threats from United
States adversaries to the
United States technology sec-
tor.
Sec. 707. Report on Iranian support of proxy
forces in Syria and Lebanon.
Sec. 708. Annual report on Iranian expendi-
tures supporting foreign mili-
tary and terrorist activities.
Sec. 709. Expansion of scope of committee to
counter active measures and re-
port on establishment of For-
eign Malign Influence Center.
Subtitle B—Reports
Sec. 711. Technical correction to Inspector
General study.
Sec. 712. Reports on authorities of the Chief
Intelligence Officer of the De-
partment of Homeland Secu-
rity.
Sec. 713. Report on cyber exchange program.
Sec. 714. Review of intelligence community
whistleblower matters.
Sec. 715. Report on role of Director of Na-
tional Intelligence with respect
to certain foreign investments.
Sec. 716. Report on surveillance by foreign
governments against United
States telecommunications net-
works.
Sec. 717. Biennial report on foreign invest-
ment risks.
Sec. 718. Modification of certain reporting
requirement on travel of for-
eign diplomats.
Sec. 719. Semiannual reports on investiga-
tions of unauthorized disclo-
sures of classified information.
Sec. 720. Congressional notification of des-
ignation of covered intelligence
officer as persona non grata.
Sec. 721. Reports on intelligence community
participation in vulnerabilities
equities process of Federal Gov-
ernment.
Sec. 722. Inspectors General reports on clas-
sification.
Sec. 723. Reports on global water insecurity
and national security implica-
tions and briefing on emerging
infectious disease and
pandemics.
Sec. 724. Annual report on memoranda of
understanding between ele-
ments of intelligence commu-
nity and other entities of the
United States Government re-
garding significant operational
activities or policy.
Sec. 725. Study on the feasibility of
encrypting unclassified wireline
and wireless telephone calls.
Sec. 726. Modification of requirement for an-
nual report on hiring and reten-
tion of minority employees.
Sec. 727. Reports on intelligence community
loan repayment and related
programs.
Sec. 728. Repeal of certain reporting require-
ments.
Sec. 729. Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community report on
senior executives of the Office
of the Director of National In-
telligence.
Sec. 730. Briefing on Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation offering permanent
residence to sources and co-
operators.
Sec. 731. Intelligence assessment of North
Korea revenue sources.
Sec. 732. Report on possible exploitation of
virtual currencies by terrorist
actors.
Sec. 733. Inclusion of disciplinary actions in
annual report relating to sec-
tion 702 of the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act of 1978.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
Sec. 741. Public Interest Declassification
Board.
Sec. 742. Securing energy infrastructure.
Sec. 743. Bug bounty programs.
Sec. 744. Modification of authorities relating
to the National Intelligence
University.
Sec. 745. Technical and clerical amendments
to the National Security Act of
1947.
Sec. 746. Technical amendments related to
the Department of Energy.
Sec. 747. Sense of Congress on notification of
certain disclosures of classified
information.
Sec. 748. Sense of Congress on consideration
of espionage activities when
considering whether or not to
provide visas to foreign individ-
uals to be accredited to a
United Nations mission in the
United States.
Sec. 749. Sense of Congress on WikiLeaks.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this division:
(1) CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘congressional intelligence
committees’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 3 of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The term
‘‘intelligence community’’ has the meaning
given such term in such section.
SEC. 3. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT.
The explanatory statement regarding this
division, printed in the Senate section of the
Congressional Record, by the Chairman of
the Select Committee on Intelligence of the
Senate, shall have the same effect with re-
spect to the implementation of this division
as if it were a joint explanatory statement of
a committee of conference.
TITLE I—INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) FISCAL YEAR 2019.—Funds are hereby
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year
2019 for the conduct of the intelligence and
intelligence-related activities of the fol-
lowing elements of the United States Gov-
ernment:
(1) The Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.
(2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
(3) The Department of Defense.
(4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
(5) The National Security Agency.
(6) The Department of the Army, the De-
partment of the Navy, and the Department
of the Air Force.
(7) The Coast Guard.
(8) The Department of State.
(9) The Department of the Treasury.
(10) The Department of Energy.
(11) The Department of Justice.
(12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(13) The Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion.
(14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
(15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence
Agency.
(16) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity.
(b) FISCAL YEAR 2018.—Funds that were ap-
propriated for fiscal year 2018 for the conduct
of the intelligence and intelligence-related
activities of the elements of the United
States set forth in subsection (a) are hereby
authorized.
SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZA-
TIONS.
(a) SPECIFICATIONS OF AMOUNTS.—The
amounts authorized to be appropriated under
section 101 for the conduct of the intel-
ligence activities of the elements listed in
paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are
those specified in the classified Schedule of
Authorizations prepared to accompany this
division.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE
OF AUTHORIZATIONS.—
(1) AVAILABILITY.—The classified Schedule
of Authorizations referred to in subsection
(a) shall be made available to the Committee
on Appropriations of the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives, and to the President.
(2) DISTRIBUTION BY THE PRESIDENT.—Sub-
ject to paragraph (3), the President shall pro-
vide for suitable distribution of the classified
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S704 January 28, 2019
Schedule of Authorizations referred to in
subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of
such Schedule, within the executive branch.
(3) LIMITS ON DISCLOSURE.—The President
shall not publicly disclose the classified
Schedule of Authorizations or any portion of
such Schedule except—
(A) as provided in section 601(a) of the Im-
plementing Recommendations of the 9/11
Commission Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
(B) to the extent necessary to implement
the budget; or
(C) as otherwise required by law.
SEC. 103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGE-
MENT ACCOUNT.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Intelligence Community Management
Account of the Director of National Intel-
ligence for fiscal year 2019 the sum of
$522,424,000.
(b) CLASSIFIED AUTHORIZATION OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.—In addition to amounts author-
ized to be appropriated for the Intelligence
Community Management Account by sub-
section (a), there are authorized to be appro-
priated for the Intelligence Community Man-
agement Account for fiscal year 2019 such ad-
ditional amounts as are specified in the clas-
sified Schedule of Authorizations referred to
in section 102(a).
TITLE II—CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN-
CY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYS-
TEM
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal
year 2019.
SEC. 202. COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES FOR EM-
PLOYEES OF THE CENTRAL INTEL-
LIGENCE AGENCY.
(a) COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 221 of the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50
U.S.C. 2031) is amended—
(A) in subsection (a)(3)(B), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘, as deter-
mined by using the annual rate of basic pay
that would be payable for full-time service in
that position.’’;
(B) in subsection (b)(1)(C)(i), by striking
‘‘12-month’’ and inserting ‘‘2-year’’;
(C) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ‘‘one
year’’ and inserting ‘‘two years’’;
(D) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ‘‘one
year’’ each place such term appears and in-
serting ‘‘two years’’;
(E) by redesignating subsections (h), (i), (j),
(k), and (l) as subsections (i), (j), (k), (l), and
(m), respectively; and
(F) by inserting after subsection (g) the
following:
‘‘(h) CONDITIONAL ELECTION OF INSURABLE
INTEREST SURVIVOR ANNUITY BY PARTICI-
PANTS MARRIED AT THE TIME OF RETIRE-
MENT.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORITY TO MAKE DESIGNATION.—
Subject to the rights of former spouses under
subsection (b) and section 222, at the time of
retirement a married participant found by
the Director to be in good health may elect
to receive an annuity reduced in accordance
with subsection (f)(1)(B) and designate in
writing an individual having an insurable in-
terest in the participant to receive an annu-
ity under the system after the participant’s
death, except that any such election to pro-
vide an insurable interest survivor annuity
to the participant’s spouse shall only be ef-
fective if the participant’s spouse waives the
spousal right to a survivor annuity under
this Act. The amount of the annuity shall be
equal to 55 percent of the participant’s re-
duced annuity.
‘‘(2) REDUCTION IN PARTICIPANT’S ANNUITY.—
The annuity payable to the participant mak-
ing such election shall be reduced by 10 per-
cent of an annuity computed under sub-
section (a) and by an additional 5 percent for
each full 5 years the designated individual is
younger than the participant. The total re-
duction under this subparagraph may not ex-
ceed 40 percent.
‘‘(3) COMMENCEMENT OF SURVIVOR ANNU-
ITY.—The annuity payable to the designated
individual shall begin on the day after the
retired participant dies and terminate on the
last day of the month before the designated
individual dies.
‘‘(4) RECOMPUTATION OF PARTICIPANT’S AN-
NUITY ON DEATH OF DESIGNATED INDIVIDUAL.—
An annuity that is reduced under this sub-
section shall, effective the first day of the
month following the death of the designated
individual, be recomputed and paid as if the
annuity had not been so reduced.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIRE-
MENT ACT.—The Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) is
amended—
(i) in section 232(b)(1) (50 U.S.C. 2052(b)(1)),
by striking ‘‘221(h),’’ and inserting ‘‘221(i),’’;
and
(ii) in section 252(h)(4) (50 U.S.C. 2082(h)(4)),
by striking ‘‘221(k)’’ and inserting ‘‘221(l)’’.
(B) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF
1949.—Subsection (a) of section 14 of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50
U.S.C. 3514(a)) is amended by striking
‘‘221(h)(2), 221(i), 221(l),’’ and inserting
‘‘221(i)(2), 221(j), 221(m),’’.
(b) ANNUITIES FOR FORMER SPOUSES.—Sub-
paragraph (B) of section 222(b)(5) of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50
U.S.C. 2032(b)(5)(B)) is amended by striking
‘‘one year’’ and inserting ‘‘two years’’.
(c) PRIOR SERVICE CREDIT.—Subparagraph
(A) of section 252(b)(3) of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C.
2082(b)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘Octo-
ber 1, 1990’’ both places that term appears
and inserting ‘‘March 31, 1991’’.
(d) REEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.—Sec-
tion 273 of the Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2113) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) PART-TIME REEMPLOYED ANNU-
ITANTS.—The Director shall have the author-
ity to reemploy an annuitant on a part-time
basis in accordance with section 8344(l) of
title 5, United States Code.’’.
(e) EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICATION.—The
amendments made by subsection (a)(1)(A)
and subsection (c) shall take effect as if en-
acted on October 28, 2009, and shall apply to
computations or participants, respectively,
as of such date.
TITLE III—GENERAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY MATTERS
SEC. 301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTEL-
LIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
The authorization of appropriations by
this division shall not be deemed to con-
stitute authority for the conduct of any in-
telligence activity which is not otherwise
authorized by the Constitution or the laws of
the United States.
SEC. 302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSA-
TION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED
BY LAW.
Appropriations authorized by this division
for salary, pay, retirement, and other bene-
fits for Federal employees may be increased
by such additional or supplemental amounts
as may be necessary for increases in such
compensation or benefits authorized by law.
SEC. 303. MODIFICATION OF SPECIAL PAY AU-
THORITY FOR SCIENCE, TECH-
NOLOGY, ENGINEERING, OR MATHE-
MATICS POSITIONS AND ADDITION
OF SPECIAL PAY AUTHORITY FOR
CYBER POSITIONS.
Section 113B of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3049a) is amended—
(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as
follows:
‘‘(a) SPECIAL RATES OF PAY FOR POSITIONS
REQUIRING EXPERTISE IN SCIENCE, TECH-
NOLOGY, ENGINEERING, OR MATHEMATICS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding part III
of title 5, United States Code, the head of
each element of the intelligence community
may, for 1 or more categories of positions in
such element that require expertise in
science, technology, engineering, or mathe-
matics—
‘‘(A) establish higher minimum rates of
pay; and
‘‘(B) make corresponding increases in all
rates of pay of the pay range for each grade
or level, subject to subsection (b) or (c), as
applicable.
‘‘(2) TREATMENT.—The special rate supple-
ments resulting from the establishment of
higher rates under paragraph (1) shall be
basic pay for the same or similar purposes as
those specified in section 5305(j) of title 5,
United States Code.’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (b)
through (f) as subsections (c) through (g), re-
spectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) SPECIAL RATES OF PAY FOR CYBER PO-
SITIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding sub-
section (c), the Director of the National Se-
curity Agency may establish a special rate of
pay—
‘‘(A) not to exceed the rate of basic pay
payable for level II of the Executive Sched-
ule under section 5313 of title 5, United
States Code, if the Director certifies to the
Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence,
in consultation with the Under Secretary of
Defense for Personnel and Readiness, that
the rate of pay is for positions that perform
functions that execute the cyber mission of
the Agency; or
‘‘(B) not to exceed the rate of basic pay
payable for the Vice President of the United
States under section 104 of title 3, United
States Code, if the Director certifies to the
Secretary of Defense, by name, individuals
that have advanced skills and competencies
and that perform critical functions that exe-
cute the cyber mission of the Agency.
‘‘(2) PAY LIMITATION.—Employees receiving
a special rate under paragraph (1) shall be
subject to an aggregate pay limitation that
parallels the limitation established in sec-
tion 5307 of title 5, United States Code, ex-
cept that—
‘‘(A) any allowance, differential, bonus,
award, or other similar cash payment in ad-
dition to basic pay that is authorized under
title 10, United States Code, (or any other
applicable law in addition to title 5 of such
Code, excluding the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.)) shall also
be counted as part of aggregate compensa-
tion; and
‘‘(B) aggregate compensation may not ex-
ceed the rate established for the Vice Presi-
dent of the United States under section 104
of title 3, United States Code.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF RECIPI-
ENTS.—The number of individuals who re-
ceive basic pay established under paragraph
(1)(B) may not exceed 100 at any time.
‘‘(4) LIMITATION ON USE AS COMPARATIVE
REFERENCE.—Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, special rates of pay and the
limitation established under paragraph (1)(B)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S705
January 28, 2019
may not be used as comparative references
for the purpose of fixing the rates of basic
pay or maximum pay limitations of qualified
positions under section 1599f of title 10,
United States Code, or section 226 of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
147).’’;
(4) in subsection (c), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘A minimum’’ and
inserting ‘‘Except as provided in subsection
(b), a minimum’’;
(5) in subsection (d), as redesignated by
paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘or (b)’’ after ‘‘by
subsection (a)’’; and
(6) in subsection (g), as redesignated by
paragraph (2)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2017’’ and inserting ‘‘Not later than
90 days after the date of the enactment of
the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young
Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for
Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ‘‘or
(b)’’ after ‘‘subsection (a)’’.
SEC. 304. MODIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103G(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3032(a)) is amended by
striking ‘‘President’’ and inserting ‘‘Direc-
tor’’.
SEC. 305. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE REVIEW OF PLACEMENT
OF POSITIONS WITHIN THE INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY ON THE EXEC-
UTIVE SCHEDULE.
(a) REVIEW.—The Director of National In-
telligence, in coordination with the Director
of the Office of Personnel Management, shall
conduct a review of positions within the in-
telligence community regarding the place-
ment of such positions on the Executive
Schedule under subchapter II of chapter 53 of
title 5, United States Code. In carrying out
such review, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Director of
the Office of Personnel Management, shall
determine—
(1) the standards under which such review
will be conducted;
(2) which positions should or should not be
on the Executive Schedule; and
(3) for those positions that should be on the
Executive Schedule, the level of the Execu-
tive Schedule at which such positions should
be placed.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 60 days after
the date on which the review under sub-
section (a) is completed, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Government Reform
of the House of Representatives an
unredacted report describing the standards
by which the review was conducted and the
outcome of the review.
SEC. 306. SUPPLY CHAIN AND COUNTERINTEL-
LIGENCE RISK MANAGEMENT TASK
FORCE.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform of the House of Representatives.
(b) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH.—The Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall estab-
lish a Supply Chain and Counterintelligence
Risk Management Task Force to standardize
information sharing between the intelligence
community and the acquisition community
of the United States Government with re-
spect to the supply chain and counterintel-
ligence risks.
(c) MEMBERS.—The Supply Chain and
Counterintelligence Risk Management Task
Force established under subsection (b) shall
be composed of—
(1) a representative of the Defense Security
Service of the Department of Defense;
(2) a representative of the General Services
Administration;
(3) a representative of the Office of Federal
Procurement Policy of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget;
(4) a representative of the Department of
Homeland Security;
(5) a representative of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation;
(6) the Director of the National Counter-
intelligence and Security Center; and
(7) any other members the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence determines appropriate.
(d) SECURITY CLEARANCES.—Each member
of the Supply Chain and Counterintelligence
Risk Management Task Force established
under subsection (b) shall have a security
clearance at the top secret level and be able
to access sensitive compartmented informa-
tion.
(e) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Supply Chain
and Counterintelligence Risk Management
Task Force established under subsection (b)
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees an annual report that de-
scribes the activities of the Task Force dur-
ing the previous year, including identifica-
tion of the supply chain and counterintel-
ligence risks shared with the acquisition
community of the United States Government
by the intelligence community.
SEC. 307. CONSIDERATION OF ADVERSARIAL
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND CYBER-
SECURITY INFRASTRUCTURE WHEN
SHARING INTELLIGENCE WITH FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AND ENTITIES.
Whenever the head of an element of the in-
telligence community enters into an intel-
ligence sharing agreement with a foreign
government or any other foreign entity, the
head of the element shall consider the perva-
siveness of telecommunications and cyberse-
curity infrastructure, equipment, and serv-
ices provided by adversaries of the United
States, particularly China and Russia, or en-
tities of such adversaries in the country or
region of the foreign government or other
foreign entity entering into the agreement.
SEC. 308. CYBER PROTECTION SUPPORT FOR THE
PERSONNEL OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY IN POSITIONS HIGHLY
VULNERABLE TO CYBER ATTACK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) PERSONAL ACCOUNTS.—The term ‘‘per-
sonal accounts’’ means accounts for online
and telecommunications services, including
telephone, residential Internet access, email,
text and multimedia messaging, cloud com-
puting, social media, health care, and finan-
cial services, used by personnel of the intel-
ligence community outside of the scope of
their employment with elements of the in-
telligence community.
(2) PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY DEVICES.—The
term ‘‘personal technology devices’’ means
technology devices used by personnel of the
intelligence community outside of the scope
of their employment with elements of the in-
telligence community, including networks to
which such devices connect.
(b) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE CYBER PROTEC-
TION SUPPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to a determina-
tion by the Director of National Intelligence,
the Director may provide cyber protection
support for the personal technology devices
and personal accounts of the personnel de-
scribed in paragraph (2).
(2) AT-RISK PERSONNEL.—The personnel de-
scribed in this paragraph are personnel of
the intelligence community—
(A) who the Director determines to be
highly vulnerable to cyber attacks and hos-
tile information collection activities because
of the positions occupied by such personnel
in the intelligence community; and
(B) whose personal technology devices or
personal accounts are highly vulnerable to
cyber attacks and hostile information collec-
tion activities.
(c) NATURE OF CYBER PROTECTION SUP-
PORT.—Subject to the availability of re-
sources, the cyber protection support pro-
vided to personnel under subsection (b) may
include training, advice, assistance, and
other services relating to cyber attacks and
hostile information collection activities.
(d) LIMITATION ON SUPPORT.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed—
(1) to encourage personnel of the intel-
ligence community to use personal tech-
nology devices for official business; or
(2) to authorize cyber protection support
for senior intelligence community personnel
using personal devices, networks, and per-
sonal accounts in an official capacity.
(e) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees a report on the pro-
vision of cyber protection support under sub-
section (b). The report shall include—
(1) a description of the methodology used
to make the determination under subsection
(b)(2); and
(2) guidance for the use of cyber protection
support and tracking of support requests for
personnel receiving cyber protection support
under subsection (b).
SEC. 309. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY RELAT-
ING TO MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLY-
CHAIN RISK.
(a) MODIFICATION OF EFFECTIVE DATE.—
Subsection (f) of section 309 of the Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2012 (Public Law 112–87; 50 U.S.C. 3329 note) is
amended by striking ‘‘the date that is 180
days after’’.
(b) REPEAL OF SUNSET.—Such section is
amended by striking subsection (g).
(c) REPORTS.—Such section, as amended by
subsection (b), is further amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (f), as
amended by subsection (a), as subsection (g);
and
(2) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of the Damon Paul
Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years
2018 and 2019 and not less frequently than
once each calendar year thereafter, the Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall, in con-
sultation with each head of a covered agen-
cy, submit to the congressional intelligence
committees (as defined in section 3 of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3003)), a report that details the determina-
tions and notifications made under sub-
section (c) during the most recently com-
pleted calendar year.
‘‘(2) INITIAL REPORT.—The first report sub-
mitted under paragraph (1) shall detail all
the determinations and notifications made
under subsection (c) before the date of the
submittal of the report.’’.
SEC. 310. LIMITATIONS ON DETERMINATIONS RE-
GARDING CERTAIN SECURITY CLAS-
SIFICATIONS.
(a) PROHIBITION.—An officer of an element
of the intelligence community who has been
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S706 January 28, 2019
nominated by the President for a position
that requires the advice and consent of the
Senate may not make a classification deci-
sion with respect to information related to
such officer’s nomination.
(b) CLASSIFICATION DETERMINATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), in a case in which an officer
described in subsection (a) has been nomi-
nated as described in such subsection and
classification authority rests with the officer
or another officer who reports directly to
such officer, a classification decision with
respect to information relating to the officer
shall be made by the Director of National In-
telligence.
(2) NOMINATIONS OF DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE.—In a case described in para-
graph (1) in which the officer nominated is
the Director of National Intelligence, the
classification decision shall be made by the
Principal Deputy Director of National Intel-
ligence.
(c) REPORTS.—Whenever the Director or
the Principal Deputy Director makes a deci-
sion under subsection (b), the Director or the
Principal Deputy Director, as the case may
be, shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report detailing the
reasons for the decision.
SEC. 311. JOINT INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
COUNCIL.
(a) MEETINGS.—Section 101A(d) of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3022(d))
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘regular’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘as the Director considers
appropriate’’ after ‘‘Council’’.
(b) REPORT ON FUNCTION AND UTILITY OF
THE JOINT INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY COUN-
CIL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with the Executive Office of the
President and members of the Joint Intel-
ligence Community Council, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on the function and utility of the
Joint Intelligence Community Council.
(2) CONTENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) The number of physical or virtual
meetings held by the Council per year since
the Council’s inception.
(B) A description of the effect and accom-
plishments of the Council.
(C) An explanation of the unique role of
the Council relative to other entities, includ-
ing with respect to the National Security
Council and the Executive Committee of the
intelligence community.
(D) Recommendations for the future role
and operation of the Council.
(E) Such other matters relating to the
function and utility of the Council as the Di-
rector considers appropriate.
(3) FORM.—The report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 312. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INFORMA-
TION TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CORE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘core service’’
means a capability that is available to mul-
tiple elements of the intelligence community
and required for consistent operation of the
intelligence community information tech-
nology environment.
(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT.—The term ‘‘intel-
ligence community information technology
environment’’ means all of the information
technology services across the intelligence
community, including the data sharing and
protection environment across multiple clas-
sification domains.
(b) ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.—
(1) DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.—
The Director of National Intelligence shall
be responsible for coordinating the perform-
ance by elements of the intelligence commu-
nity of the intelligence community informa-
tion technology environment, including each
of the following:
(A) Ensuring compliance with all applica-
ble environment rules and regulations of
such environment.
(B) Ensuring measurable performance
goals exist for such environment.
(C) Documenting standards and practices
of such environment.
(D) Acting as an arbiter among elements of
the intelligence community related to any
disagreements arising out of the implemen-
tation of such environment.
(E) Delegating responsibilities to the ele-
ments of the intelligence community and
carrying out such other responsibilities as
are necessary for the effective implementa-
tion of such environment.
(2) CORE SERVICE PROVIDERS.—Providers of
core services shall be responsible for—
(A) providing core services, in coordination
with the Director of National Intelligence;
and
(B) providing the Director with informa-
tion requested and required to fulfill the re-
sponsibilities of the Director under para-
graph (1).
(3) USE OF CORE SERVICES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), each element of the intel-
ligence community shall use core services
when such services are available.
(B) EXCEPTION.—The Director of National
Intelligence may provide for a written excep-
tion to the requirement under subparagraph
(A) if the Director determines there is a com-
pelling financial or mission need for such ex-
ception.
(c) MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTABILITY.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence shall designate and maintain
one or more accountable executives of the
intelligence community information tech-
nology environment to be responsible for—
(1) management, financial control, and in-
tegration of such environment;
(2) overseeing the performance of each core
service, including establishing measurable
service requirements and schedules;
(3) to the degree feasible, ensuring testing
of each core service of such environment, in-
cluding testing by the intended users, to
evaluate performance against measurable
service requirements and to ensure the capa-
bility meets user requirements; and
(4) coordinate transition or restructuring
efforts of such environment, including phase-
out of legacy systems.
(d) SECURITY PLAN.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall develop and maintain a security plan
for the intelligence community information
technology environment.
(e) LONG-TERM ROADMAP.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, and during each of the second and
fourth fiscal quarters thereafter, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
long-term roadmap that shall include each of
the following:
(1) A description of the minimum required
and desired core service requirements, in-
cluding—
(A) key performance parameters; and
(B) an assessment of current, measured
performance.
(2) implementation milestones for the in-
telligence community information tech-
nology environment, including each of the
following:
(A) A schedule for expected deliveries of
core service capabilities during each of the
following phases:
(i) Concept refinement and technology ma-
turity demonstration.
(ii) Development, integration, and dem-
onstration.
(iii) Production, deployment, and
sustainment.
(iv) System retirement.
(B) Dependencies of such core service capa-
bilities.
(C) Plans for the transition or restruc-
turing necessary to incorporate core service
capabilities.
(D) A description of any legacy systems
and discontinued capabilities to be phased
out.
(3) Such other matters as the Director de-
termines appropriate.
(f) BUSINESS PLAN.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and during each of the second and fourth fis-
cal quarters thereafter, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees a busi-
ness plan that includes each of the following:
(1) A systematic approach to identify core
service funding requests for the intelligence
community information technology environ-
ment within the proposed budget, including
multiyear plans to implement the long-term
roadmap required by subsection (e).
(2) A uniform approach by which each ele-
ment of the intelligence community shall
identify the cost of legacy information tech-
nology or alternative capabilities where
services of the intelligence community infor-
mation technology environment will also be
available.
(3) A uniform effort by which each element
of the intelligence community shall identify
transition and restructuring costs for new,
existing, and retiring services of the intel-
ligence community information technology
environment, as well as services of such en-
vironment that have changed designations as
a core service.
(g) QUARTERLY PRESENTATIONS.—Beginning
not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall provide to the con-
gressional intelligence committees quarterly
updates regarding ongoing implementation
of the intelligence community information
technology environment as compared to the
requirements in the most recently submitted
security plan required by subsection (d),
long-term roadmap required by subsection
(e), and business plan required by subsection
(f).
(h) ADDITIONAL NOTIFICATIONS.—The Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall provide
timely notification to the congressional in-
telligence committees regarding any policy
changes related to or affecting the intel-
ligence community information technology
environment, new initiatives or strategies
related to or impacting such environment,
and changes or deficiencies in the execution
of the security plan required by subsection
(d), long-term roadmap required by sub-
section (e), and business plan required by
subsection (f)
(i) SUNSET.—The section shall have no ef-
fect on or after September 30, 2024.
SEC. 313. REPORT ON DEVELOPMENT OF SECURE
MOBILE VOICE SOLUTION FOR IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency and the Director of the
National Security Agency, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S707
January 28, 2019
classified report on the feasibility, desir-
ability, cost, and required schedule associ-
ated with the implementation of a secure
mobile voice solution for the intelligence
community.
(b) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
(1) The benefits and disadvantages of a se-
cure mobile voice solution.
(2) Whether the intelligence community
could leverage commercially available tech-
nology for classified voice communications
that operates on commercial mobile net-
works in a secure manner and identifying
the accompanying security risks to such net-
works.
(3) A description of any policies or commu-
nity guidance that would be necessary to
govern the potential solution, such as a proc-
ess for determining the appropriate use of a
secure mobile telephone and any limitations
associated with such use.
SEC. 314. POLICY ON MINIMUM INSIDER THREAT
STANDARDS.
(a) POLICY REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall establish a policy for minimum insider
threat standards that is consistent with the
National Insider Threat Policy and Min-
imum Standards for Executive Branch In-
sider Threat Programs.
(b) IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the head of each element of the intel-
ligence community shall implement the pol-
icy established under subsection (a).
SEC. 315. SUBMISSION OF INTELLIGENCE COM-
MUNITY POLICIES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ELECTRONIC REPOSITORY.—The term
‘‘electronic repository’’ means the electronic
distribution mechanism, in use as of the date
of the enactment of this Act, or any suc-
cessor electronic distribution mechanism, by
which the Director of National Intelligence
submits to the congressional intelligence
committees information.
(2) POLICY.—The term ‘‘policy’’, with re-
spect to the intelligence community, in-
cludes unclassified or classified—
(A) directives, policy guidance, and policy
memoranda of the intelligence community;
(B) executive correspondence of the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence; and
(C) any equivalent successor policy instru-
ments.
(b) SUBMISSION OF POLICIES.—
(1) CURRENT POLICY.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees using the electronic re-
pository all nonpublicly available policies
issued by the Director of National Intel-
ligence for the intelligence community that
are in effect as of the date of the submission.
(2) CONTINUOUS UPDATES.—Not later than 15
days after the date on which the Director of
National Intelligence issues, modifies, or re-
scinds a policy of the intelligence commu-
nity, the Director shall—
(A) notify the congressional intelligence
committees of such addition, modification,
or removal; and
(B) update the electronic repository with
respect to such addition, modification, or re-
moval.
SEC. 316. EXPANSION OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY RECRUITMENT EFFORTS.
In order to further increase the diversity of
the intelligence community workforce, not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence, in consultation with heads of
elements of the Intelligence Community,
shall create, implement, and submit to the
congressional intelligence committees a
written plan to ensure that rural and under-
represented regions are more fully and con-
sistently represented in such elements’ em-
ployment recruitment efforts. Upon receipt
of the plan, the congressional committees
shall have 60 days to submit comments to
the Director of National Intelligence before
such plan shall be implemented.
TITLE IV—MATTERS RELATING TO ELE-
MENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY
Subtitle A—Office of the Director of National
Intelligence
SEC. 401. AUTHORITY FOR PROTECTION OF CUR-
RENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES OF
THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
Section 5(a)(4) of the Central Intelligence
Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3506(a)(4)) is
amended by striking ‘‘such personnel of the
Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence as the Director of National Intel-
ligence may designate;’’ and inserting ‘‘cur-
rent and former personnel of the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence and their
immediate families as the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence may designate;’’.
SEC. 402. DESIGNATION OF THE PROGRAM MAN-
AGER-INFORMATION SHARING ENVI-
RONMENT.
(a) INFORMATION SHARING ENVIRONMENT.—
Section 1016(b) of the Intelligence Reform
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (6
U.S.C. 485(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Presi-
dent’’ and inserting ‘‘Director of National In-
telligence’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘Presi-
dent’’ both places that term appears and in-
serting ‘‘Director of National Intelligence’’.
(b) PROGRAM MANAGER.—Section 1016(f)(1)
of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism
Prevention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 485(f)(1)) is
amended by striking ‘‘The individual des-
ignated as the program manager shall serve
as program manager until removed from
service or replaced by the President (at the
President’s sole discretion).’’ and inserting
‘‘Beginning on the date of the enactment of
the Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young
Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for
Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019, each individual
designated as the program manager shall be
appointed by the Director of National Intel-
ligence.’’.
SEC. 403. TECHNICAL MODIFICATION TO THE EX-
ECUTIVE SCHEDULE.
Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘Director of the National Counterintel-
ligence and Security Center.’’.
SEC. 404. CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE IN-
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103I(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3034(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sen-
tence: ‘‘The Chief Financial Officer shall re-
port directly to the Director of National In-
telligence.’’.
SEC. 405. CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
Section 103G(a) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3032(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new sen-
tence: ‘‘The Chief Information Officer shall
report directly to the Director of National
Intelligence.’’.
Subtitle B—Central Intelligence Agency
SEC. 411. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY SUB-
SISTENCE FOR PERSONNEL AS-
SIGNED TO AUSTERE LOCATIONS.
Subsection (a) of section 5 of the Central
Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C.
3506) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘(50 U.S.C.
403–4a).,’’ and inserting ‘‘(50 U.S.C. 403–4a),’’;
(2) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(3) in paragraph (7), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph (8):
‘‘(8) Upon the approval of the Director, pro-
vide, during any fiscal year, with or without
reimbursement, subsistence to any personnel
assigned to an overseas location designated
by the Agency as an austere location.’’.
SEC. 412. SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN MONTH-
LY WORKERS’ COMPENSATION PAY-
MENTS AND OTHER PAYMENTS FOR
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
PERSONNEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Central Intelligence
Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) is
amended by inserting after section 19 the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 19A. SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN INDI-
VIDUALS INJURED BY REASON OF
WAR, INSURGENCY, HOSTILE ACT,
OR TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) COVERED DEPENDENT.—The term ‘cov-
ered dependent’ means a family member (as
defined by the Director) of a covered em-
ployee who, on or after September 11, 2001—
‘‘(A) accompanies the covered employee to
an assigned duty station in a foreign coun-
try; and
‘‘(B) becomes injured by reason of a quali-
fying injury.
‘‘(2) COVERED EMPLOYEE.—The term ‘cov-
ered employee’ means an officer or employee
of the Central Intelligence Agency who, on
or after September 11, 2001, becomes injured
by reason of a qualifying injury.
‘‘(3) COVERED INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘cov-
ered individual’ means an individual who—
‘‘(A)(i) is detailed to the Central Intel-
ligence Agency from other agencies of the
United States Government or from the
Armed Forces; or
‘‘(ii) is affiliated with the Central Intel-
ligence Agency, as determined by the Direc-
tor; and
‘‘(B) who, on or after September 11, 2001,
becomes injured by reason of a qualifying in-
jury.
‘‘(4) QUALIFYING INJURY.—The term ‘quali-
fying injury’ means the following:
‘‘(A) With respect to a covered dependent,
an injury incurred—
‘‘(i) during war, insurgency, hostile act, or
terrorist activities occurring during a period
in which the covered dependent is accom-
panying the covered employee to an assigned
duty station in a foreign country; and
‘‘(ii) that was not the result of the willful
misconduct of the covered dependent.
‘‘(B) With respect to a covered employee or
a covered individual, an injury incurred—
‘‘(i) during war, insurgency, hostile act, or
terrorist activities occurring during a period
of assignment to a duty station in a foreign
country; and
‘‘(ii) that was not the result of the willful
misconduct of the covered employee or the
covered individual.
‘‘(b) ADJUSTMENT OF COMPENSATION FOR
CERTAIN INJURIES.—
‘‘(1) INCREASE.—The Director may increase
the amount of monthly compensation paid to
a covered employee under section 8105 of
title 5, United States Code. Subject to para-
graph (2), the Director may determine the
amount of each such increase by taking into
account—
‘‘(A) the severity of the qualifying injury;
‘‘(B) the circumstances by which the cov-
ered employee became injured; and
‘‘(C) the seniority of the covered employee.
‘‘(2) MAXIMUM.—Notwithstanding chapter
81 of title 5, United States Code, the total
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S708 January 28, 2019
amount of monthly compensation increased
under paragraph (1) may not exceed the
monthly pay of the maximum rate of basic
pay for GS–15 of the General Schedule under
section 5332 of such title.
‘‘(c) COSTS FOR TREATING QUALIFYING INJU-
RIES.—The Director may pay the costs of
treating a qualifying injury of a covered em-
ployee, a covered individual, or a covered de-
pendent, or may reimburse a covered em-
ployee, a covered individual, or a covered de-
pendent for such costs, that are not other-
wise covered by chapter 81 of title 5, United
States Code, or other provision of Federal
law.
‘‘(d) TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS.—For pur-
poses of section 104 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, amounts paid pursuant to this
section shall be treated as amounts paid
under chapter 81 of title 5, United States
Code.’’.
(b) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of the Central Intelligence
Agency shall—
(1) prescribe regulations ensuring the fair
and equitable implementation of section 19A
of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of
1949, as added by subsection (a); and
(2) submit to the congressional intelligence
committees such regulations.
(c) APPLICATION.—Section 19A of the Cen-
tral Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as added
by subsection (a), shall apply with respect
to—
(1) payments made to covered employees
(as defined in such section) under section
8105 of title 5, United States Code, beginning
on or after the date of the enactment of this
Act; and
(2) treatment described in subsection (b) of
such section 19A occurring on or after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 413. EXPANSION OF SECURITY PROTECTIVE
SERVICE JURISDICTION OF THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
Subsection (a) of section 15 of the Central
Intelligence Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3515(a)) is
amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘POLICEMEN’’ and inserting ‘‘POLICE OFFI-
CERS’’; and
(2) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘500
feet;’’ and inserting ‘‘500 yards;’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘500
feet.’’ and inserting ‘‘500 yards.’’.
SEC. 414. REPEAL OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE PRO-
FICIENCY REQUIREMENT FOR CER-
TAIN SENIOR LEVEL POSITIONS IN
THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN-
CY.
(a) REPEAL OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE PRO-
FICIENCY REQUIREMENT.—Section 104A of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3036)
is amended by striking subsection (g).
(b) CONFORMING REPEAL OF REPORT RE-
QUIREMENT.—Section 611 of the Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Pub-
lic Law 108–487) is amended by striking sub-
section (c).
Subtitle C—Office of Intelligence and
Counterintelligence of Department of Energy
SEC. 421. CONSOLIDATION OF DEPARTMENT OF
ENERGY OFFICES OF INTELLIGENCE
AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 215 of the Depart-
ment of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C.
7144b) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE AND
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE
‘‘SEC. 215. (a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section,
the terms ‘intelligence community’ and ‘Na-
tional Intelligence Program’ have the mean-
ings given such terms in section 3 of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
‘‘(b) IN GENERAL.—There is in the Depart-
ment an Office of Intelligence and Counter-
intelligence. Such office shall be under the
National Intelligence Program.
‘‘(c) DIRECTOR.—(1) The head of the Office
shall be the Director of the Office of Intel-
ligence and Counterintelligence, who shall
be an employee in the Senior Executive
Service, the Senior Intelligence Service, the
Senior National Intelligence Service, or any
other Service that the Secretary, in coordi-
nation with the Director of National Intel-
ligence, considers appropriate. The Director
of the Office shall report directly to the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(2) The Secretary shall select an indi-
vidual to serve as the Director from among
individuals who have substantial expertise in
matters relating to the intelligence commu-
nity, including foreign intelligence and
counterintelligence.
‘‘(d) DUTIES.—(1) Subject to the authority,
direction, and control of the Secretary, the
Director shall perform such duties and exer-
cise such powers as the Secretary may pre-
scribe.
‘‘(2) The Director shall be responsible for
establishing policy for intelligence and coun-
terintelligence programs and activities at
the Department.’’.
(b) CONFORMING REPEAL.—Section 216 of
the Department of Energy Organization Act
(42 U.S.C. 7144c) is hereby repealed.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents at the beginning of the Department
of Energy Organization Act is amended by
striking the items relating to sections 215
and 216 and inserting the following new item:
‘‘215. Office of Intelligence and Counterintel-
ligence.’’.
SEC. 422. ESTABLISHMENT OF ENERGY INFRA-
STRUCTURE SECURITY CENTER.
Section 215 of the Department of Energy
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7144b), as amend-
ed by section 421, is further amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(e) ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE SECURITY
CENTER.—(1)(A) The President shall establish
an Energy Infrastructure Security Center,
taking into account all appropriate govern-
ment tools to analyze and disseminate intel-
ligence relating to the security of the energy
infrastructure of the United States.
‘‘(B) The Secretary shall appoint the head
of the Energy Infrastructure Security Cen-
ter.
‘‘(C) The Energy Infrastructure Security
Center shall be located within the Office of
Intelligence and Counterintelligence.
‘‘(2) In establishing the Energy Infrastruc-
ture Security Center, the Director of the Of-
fice of Intelligence and Counterintelligence
shall address the following missions and ob-
jectives to coordinate and disseminate intel-
ligence relating to the security of the energy
infrastructure of the United States:
‘‘(A) Establishing a primary organization
within the United States Government for
analyzing and integrating all intelligence
possessed or acquired by the United States
pertaining to the security of the energy in-
frastructure of the United States.
‘‘(B) Ensuring that appropriate depart-
ments and agencies have full access to and
receive intelligence support needed to exe-
cute the plans or activities of the agencies,
and perform independent, alternative anal-
yses.
‘‘(C) Establishing a central repository on
known and suspected foreign threats to the
energy infrastructure of the United States,
including with respect to any individuals,
groups, or entities engaged in activities tar-
geting such infrastructure, and the goals,
strategies, capabilities, and networks of such
individuals, groups, or entities.
‘‘(D) Disseminating intelligence informa-
tion relating to the security of the energy
infrastructure of the United States, includ-
ing threats and analyses, to the President, to
the appropriate departments and agencies,
and to the appropriate committees of Con-
gress.
‘‘(3) The President may waive the require-
ments of this subsection, and any parts
thereof, if the President determines that
such requirements do not materially im-
prove the ability of the United States Gov-
ernment to prevent and halt attacks against
the energy infrastructure of the United
States. Such waiver shall be made in writing
to Congress and shall include a description of
how the missions and objectives in para-
graph (2) are being met.
‘‘(4) If the President decides not to exercise
the waiver authority granted by paragraph
(3), the President shall submit to Congress
from time to time updates and plans regard-
ing the establishment of an Energy Infra-
structure Security Center.’’.
SEC. 423. REPEAL OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
INTELLIGENCE EXECUTIVE COM-
MITTEE AND BUDGET REPORTING
REQUIREMENT.
Section 214 of the Department of Energy
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7144a) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘(a) DUTY OF SECRETARY.—
’’; and
(2) by striking subsections (b) and (c).
Subtitle D—Other Elements
SEC. 431. PLAN FOR DESIGNATION OF COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE COMPONENT OF DE-
FENSE SECURITY SERVICE AS AN
ELEMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COM-
MUNITY.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence and Under Secretary of
Defense for Intelligence, in coordination
with the Director of the National Counter-
intelligence and Security Center, shall sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees, the Committee on Armed Services
of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives a
plan to designate the counterintelligence
component of the Defense Security Service
of the Department of Defense as an element
of the intelligence community by not later
than January 1, 2019. Such plan shall—
(1) address the implications of such des-
ignation on the authorities, governance, per-
sonnel, resources, information technology,
collection, analytic products, information
sharing, and business processes of the De-
fense Security Service and the intelligence
community; and
(2) not address the personnel security func-
tions of the Defense Security Service.
SEC. 432. NOTICE NOT REQUIRED FOR PRIVATE
ENTITIES.
Section 3553 of title 44, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (j) as sub-
section (k); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (i) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(j) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to require the
Secretary to provide notice to any private
entity before the Secretary issues a binding
operational directive under subsection
(b)(2).’’.
SEC. 433. FRAMEWORK FOR ROLES, MISSIONS,
AND FUNCTIONS OF DEFENSE IN-
TELLIGENCE AGENCY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense
shall jointly establish a framework to ensure
the appropriate balance of resources for the
roles, missions, and functions of the Defense
Intelligence Agency in its capacity as an ele-
ment of the intelligence community and as a
combat support agency. The framework shall
include supporting processes to provide for
the consistent and regular reevaluation of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S709
January 28, 2019
the responsibilities and resources of the De-
fense Intelligence Agency to prevent imbal-
anced priorities, insufficient or misaligned
resources, and the unauthorized expansion of
mission parameters.
(b) MATTERS FOR INCLUSION.—The frame-
work required under subsection (a) shall in-
clude each of the following:
(1) A lexicon providing for consistent defi-
nitions of relevant terms used by both the
intelligence community and the Department
of Defense, including each of the following:
(A) Defense intelligence enterprise.
(B) Enterprise manager.
(C) Executive agent.
(D) Function.
(E) Functional manager.
(F) Mission.
(G) Mission manager.
(H) Responsibility.
(I) Role.
(J) Service of common concern.
(2) An assessment of the necessity of main-
taining separate designations for the intel-
ligence community and the Department of
Defense for intelligence functional or enter-
prise management constructs.
(3) A repeatable process for evaluating the
addition, transfer, or elimination of defense
intelligence missions, roles, and functions,
currently performed or to be performed in
the future by the Defense Intelligence Agen-
cy, which includes each of the following:
(A) A justification for the addition, trans-
fer, or elimination of a mission, role, or func-
tion.
(B) The identification of which, if any, ele-
ment of the Federal Government performs
the considered mission, role, or function.
(C) In the case of any new mission, role, or
function—
(i) an assessment of the most appropriate
agency or element to perform such mission,
role, or function, taking into account the re-
source profiles, scope of responsibilities, pri-
mary customers, and existing infrastructure
necessary to support such mission, role, or
function; and
(ii) a determination of the appropriate re-
source profile and an identification of the
projected resources needed and the proposed
source of such resources over the future-
years defense program, to be provided in
writing to any elements of the intelligence
community or the Department of Defense af-
fected by the assumption, transfer, or elimi-
nation of any mission, role, or function.
(D) In the case of any mission, role, or
function proposed to be assumed, trans-
ferred, or eliminated, an assessment, which
shall be completed jointly by the heads of
each element affected by such assumption,
transfer, or elimination, of the risks that
would be assumed by the intelligence com-
munity and the Department if such mission,
role, or function is assumed, transferred, or
eliminated.
(E) A description of how determinations
are made regarding the funding of programs
and activities under the National Intel-
ligence Program and the Military Intel-
ligence Program, including—
(i) which programs or activities are funded
under each such Program;
(ii) which programs or activities should be
jointly funded under both such Programs and
how determinations are made with respect to
funding allocations for such programs and
activities; and
(iii) the thresholds and process for chang-
ing a program or activity from being funded
under one such Program to being funded
under the other such Program.
SEC. 434. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY BOARD
FOR NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE
OFFICE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Section 106A of the
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3041a) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(d) ADVISORY BOARD.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the National Reconnaissance Office an ad-
visory board (in this section referred to as
the ‘Board’).
‘‘(2) DUTIES.—The Board shall—
‘‘(A) study matters relating to the mission
of the National Reconnaissance Office, in-
cluding with respect to promoting innova-
tion, competition, and resilience in space,
overhead reconnaissance, acquisition, and
other matters; and
‘‘(B) advise and report directly to the Di-
rector with respect to such matters.
‘‘(3) MEMBERS.—
‘‘(A) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall be com-
posed of 5 members appointed by the Direc-
tor from among individuals with dem-
onstrated academic, government, business,
or other expertise relevant to the mission
and functions of the National Reconnais-
sance Office.
‘‘(ii) NOTIFICATION.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Director ap-
points a member to the Board, the Director
shall notify the congressional intelligence
committees and the congressional defense
committees (as defined in section 101(a) of
title 10, United States Code) of such appoint-
ment.
‘‘(B) TERMS.—Each member shall be ap-
pointed for a term of 2 years. Except as pro-
vided by subparagraph (C), a member may
not serve more than 3 terms.
‘‘(C) VACANCY.—Any member appointed to
fill a vacancy occurring before the expira-
tion of the term for which the member’s
predecessor was appointed shall be appointed
only for the remainder of that term. A mem-
ber may serve after the expiration of that
member’s term until a successor has taken
office.
‘‘(D) CHAIR.—The Board shall have a Chair,
who shall be appointed by the Director from
among the members.
‘‘(E) TRAVEL EXPENSES.—Each member
shall receive travel expenses, including per
diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance
with applicable provisions under subchapter
I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
‘‘(F) EXECUTIVE SECRETARY.—The Director
may appoint an executive secretary, who
shall be an employee of the National Recon-
naissance Office, to support the Board.
‘‘(4) MEETINGS.—The Board shall meet not
less than quarterly, but may meet more fre-
quently at the call of the Director.
‘‘(5) REPORTS.—Not later than March 31 of
each year, the Board shall submit to the Di-
rector and to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on the activities and
significant findings of the Board during the
preceding year.
‘‘(6) NONAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The Federal Advisory Committee
Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the
Board.
‘‘(7) TERMINATION.—The Board shall termi-
nate on the date that is 3 years after the
date of the first meeting of the Board.’’.
(b) INITIAL APPOINTMENTS.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of the National Recon-
naissance Office shall appoint the initial 5
members to the advisory board under sub-
section (d) of section 106A of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041a), as
added by subsection (a).
SEC. 435. COLLOCATION OF CERTAIN DEPART-
MENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
PERSONNEL AT FIELD LOCATIONS.
(a) IDENTIFICATION OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR
COLLOCATION.—Not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Under Secretary of Homeland Security for
Intelligence and Analysis shall identify, in
consultation with the Commissioner of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, the Admin-
istrator of the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration, the Director of U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement, and the
heads of such other elements of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security as the Under
Secretary considers appropriate, opportuni-
ties for collocation of officers of the Office of
Intelligence and Analysis in the field outside
of the greater Washington, District of Co-
lumbia, area in order to support operational
units from U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion, the Transportation Security Adminis-
tration, U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement, and other elements of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
(b) PLAN FOR COLLOCATION.—Not later than
120 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit
to the congressional intelligence committees
a report that includes a plan for collocation
as described in subsection (a).
TITLE V—ELECTION MATTERS
SEC. 501. REPORT ON CYBER ATTACKS BY FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST
UNITED STATES ELECTION INFRA-
STRUCTURE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives;
(D) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate; and
(E) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means any
State of the United States, the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, and any territory or possession of the
United States.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Under Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity for Intelligence and Analysis shall sub-
mit to congressional leadership and the ap-
propriate congressional committees a report
on cyber attacks and attempted cyber at-
tacks by foreign governments on United
States election infrastructure in States and
localities in connection with the 2016 Presi-
dential election in the United States and
such cyber attacks or attempted cyber at-
tacks as the Under Secretary anticipates
against such infrastructure. Such report
shall identify the States and localities af-
fected and shall include cyber attacks and
attempted cyber attacks against voter reg-
istration databases, voting machines, voting-
related computer networks, and the net-
works of Secretaries of State and other elec-
tion officials of the various States.
(c) FORM.—The report submitted under
subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 502. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY’S POSTURE TO COLLECT
AGAINST AND ANALYZE RUSSIAN EF-
FORTS TO INFLUENCE THE PRESI-
DENTIAL ELECTION.
(a) REVIEW REQUIRED.—Not later than 1
year after the date of the enactment of this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S710 January 28, 2019
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall—
(1) complete an after action review of the
posture of the intelligence community to
collect against and analyze efforts of the
Government of Russia to interfere in the 2016
Presidential election in the United States;
and
(2) submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report on the findings of the
Director with respect to such review.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The review required by
subsection (a) shall include, with respect to
the posture and efforts described in para-
graph (1) of such subsection, the following:
(1) An assessment of whether the resources
of the intelligence community were properly
aligned to detect and respond to the efforts
described in subsection (a)(1).
(2) An assessment of the information shar-
ing that occurred within elements of the in-
telligence community.
(3) An assessment of the information shar-
ing that occurred between elements of the
intelligence community.
(4) An assessment of applicable authorities
necessary to collect on any such efforts and
any deficiencies in those authorities.
(5) A review of the use of open source mate-
rial to inform analysis and warning of such
efforts.
(6) A review of the use of alternative and
predictive analysis.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by subsection (a)(2) shall be submitted to the
congressional intelligence committees in a
classified form.
SEC. 503. ASSESSMENT OF FOREIGN INTEL-
LIGENCE THREATS TO FEDERAL
ELECTIONS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(3) SECURITY VULNERABILITY.—The term
‘‘security vulnerability’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 102 of the Cyber-
security Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6
U.S.C. 1501).
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence, in coordination with the Direc-
tor of the Central Intelligence Agency, the
Director of the National Security Agency,
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation, the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, and the heads of other relevant ele-
ments of the intelligence community, shall—
(1) commence not later than 1 year before
any regularly scheduled Federal election oc-
curring after December 31, 2018, and com-
plete not later than 180 days before such
election, an assessment of security
vulnerabilities of State election systems;
and
(2) not later than 180 days before any regu-
larly scheduled Federal election occurring
after December 31, 2018, submit a report on
such security vulnerabilities and an assess-
ment of foreign intelligence threats to the
election to—
(A) congressional leadership; and
(B) the appropriate congressional commit-
tees.
(c) UPDATE.—Not later than 90 days before
any regularly scheduled Federal election oc-
curring after December 31, 2018, the Director
of National Intelligence shall—
(1) update the assessment of foreign intel-
ligence threats to that election; and
(2) submit the updated assessment to—
(A) congressional leadership; and
(B) the appropriate congressional commit-
tees.
SEC. 504. STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING RUSSIAN
CYBER THREATS TO UNITED STATES
ELECTIONS.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(4) The Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate.
(5) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR A STRATEGY.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Director of National
Intelligence, in coordination with the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, the Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Di-
rector of the Central Intelligence Agency,
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of De-
fense, and the Secretary of the Treasury,
shall develop a whole-of-government strat-
egy for countering the threat of Russian
cyber attacks and attempted cyber attacks
against electoral systems and processes in
the United States, including Federal, State,
and local election systems, voter registra-
tion databases, voting tabulation equipment,
and equipment and processes for the secure
transmission of election results.
(c) ELEMENTS OF THE STRATEGY.—The
strategy required by subsection (b) shall in-
clude the following elements:
(1) A whole-of-government approach to pro-
tecting United States electoral systems and
processes that includes the agencies and de-
partments indicated in subsection (b) as well
as any other agencies and departments of the
United States, as determined appropriate by
the Director of National Intelligence and the
Secretary of Homeland Security.
(2) Input solicited from Secretaries of
State of the various States and the chief
election officials of the States.
(3) Technical security measures, including
auditable paper trails for voting machines,
securing wireless and Internet connections,
and other technical safeguards.
(4) Detection of cyber threats, including
attacks and attempted attacks by Russian
government or nongovernment cyber threat
actors.
(5) Improvements in the identification and
attribution of Russian government or non-
government cyber threat actors.
(6) Deterrence, including actions and meas-
ures that could or should be undertaken
against or communicated to the Government
of Russia or other entities to deter attacks
against, or interference with, United States
election systems and processes.
(7) Improvements in Federal Government
communications with State and local elec-
tion officials.
(8) Public education and communication
efforts.
(9) Benchmarks and milestones to enable
the measurement of concrete steps taken
and progress made in the implementation of
the strategy.
(d) CONGRESSIONAL BRIEFING.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence and the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity shall jointly brief the appropriate con-
gressional committees on the strategy devel-
oped under subsection (b).
SEC. 505. ASSESSMENT OF SIGNIFICANT RUSSIAN
INFLUENCE CAMPAIGNS DIRECTED
AT FOREIGN ELECTIONS AND
REFERENDA.
(a) RUSSIAN INFLUENCE CAMPAIGN DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘Russian
influence campaign’’ means any effort, cov-
ert or overt, and by any means, attributable
to the Russian Federation directed at an
election, referendum, or similar process in a
country other than the Russian Federation
or the United States.
(b) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
60 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a report containing an
analytical assessment of the most signifi-
cant Russian influence campaigns, if any,
conducted during the 3-year period preceding
the date of the enactment of this Act, as well
as the most significant current or planned
such Russian influence campaigns, if any.
Such assessment shall include—
(1) a summary of such significant Russian
influence campaigns, including, at a min-
imum, the specific means by which such
campaigns were conducted, are being con-
ducted, or likely will be conducted, as appro-
priate, and the specific goal of each such
campaign;
(2) a summary of any defenses against or
responses to such Russian influence cam-
paigns by the foreign state holding the elec-
tions or referenda;
(3) a summary of any relevant activities by
elements of the intelligence community un-
dertaken for the purpose of assisting the
government of such foreign state in defend-
ing against or responding to such Russian in-
fluence campaigns; and
(4) an assessment of the effectiveness of
such defenses and responses described in
paragraphs (2) and (3).
(c) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (b) may be submitted in classified
form, but if so submitted, shall contain an
unclassified summary.
SEC. 506. FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND
CYBERSECURITY THREATS TO FED-
ERAL ELECTION CAMPAIGNS.
(a) REPORTS REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As provided in paragraph
(2), for each Federal election, the Director of
National Intelligence, in coordination with
the Under Secretary of Homeland Security
for Intelligence and Analysis and the Direc-
tor of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
shall make publicly available on an Internet
website an advisory report on foreign coun-
terintelligence and cybersecurity threats to
election campaigns for Federal offices. Each
such report shall include, consistent with
the protection of sources and methods, each
of the following:
(A) A description of foreign counterintel-
ligence and cybersecurity threats to election
campaigns for Federal offices.
(B) A summary of best practices that elec-
tion campaigns for Federal offices can em-
ploy in seeking to counter such threats.
(C) An identification of any publicly avail-
able resources, including United States Gov-
ernment resources, for countering such
threats.
(2) SCHEDULE FOR SUBMITTAL.—A report
under this subsection shall be made avail-
able as follows:
(A) In the case of a report regarding an
election held for the office of Senator or
Member of the House of Representatives dur-
ing 2018, not later than the date that is 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S711
January 28, 2019
(B) In the case of a report regarding an
election for a Federal office during any sub-
sequent year, not later than the date that is
1 year before the date of the election.
(3) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED.—A report
under this subsection shall reflect the most
current information available to the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence regarding for-
eign counterintelligence and cybersecurity
threats.
(b) TREATMENT OF CAMPAIGNS SUBJECT TO
HEIGHTENED THREATS.—If the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the
Under Secretary of Homeland Security for
Intelligence and Analysis jointly determine
that an election campaign for Federal office
is subject to a heightened foreign counter-
intelligence or cybersecurity threat, the Di-
rector and the Under Secretary, consistent
with the protection of sources and methods,
may make available additional information
to the appropriate representatives of such
campaign.
SEC. 507. INFORMATION SHARING WITH STATE
ELECTION OFFICIALS.
(a) STATE DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘‘State’’ means any State of the United
States, the District of Columbia, the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory
or possession of the United States.
(b) SECURITY CLEARANCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
support the Under Secretary of Homeland
Security for Intelligence and Analysis, and
any other official of the Department of
Homeland Security designated by the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, in sponsoring a
security clearance up to the top secret level
for each eligible chief election official of a
State or the District of Columbia, and addi-
tional eligible designees of such election offi-
cial as appropriate, at the time that such
election official assumes such position.
(2) INTERIM CLEARANCES.—Consistent with
applicable policies and directives, the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence may issue in-
terim clearances, for a period to be deter-
mined by the Director, to a chief election of-
ficial as described in paragraph (1) and up to
1 designee of such official under such para-
graph.
(c) INFORMATION SHARING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall assist the Under Secretary
of Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis and the Under Secretary respon-
sible for overseeing critical infrastructure
protection, cybersecurity, and other related
programs of the Department (as specified in
section 103(a)(1)(H) of the Homeland Security
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 113(a)(1)(H))) with shar-
ing any appropriate classified information
related to threats to election systems and to
the integrity of the election process with
chief election officials and such designees
who have received a security clearance under
subsection (b).
(2) COORDINATION.—The Under Secretary of
Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis shall coordinate with the Director
of National Intelligence and the Under Sec-
retary responsible for overseeing critical in-
frastructure protection, cybersecurity, and
other related programs of the Department
(as specified in section 103(a)(1)(H) of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
113(a)(1)(H))) to facilitate the sharing of in-
formation to the affected Secretaries of
State or States.
SEC. 508. NOTIFICATION OF SIGNIFICANT FOR-
EIGN CYBER INTRUSIONS AND AC-
TIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGNS DI-
RECTED AT ELECTIONS FOR FED-
ERAL OFFICES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ACTIVE MEASURES CAMPAIGN.—The term
‘‘active measures campaign’’ means a foreign
semi-covert or covert intelligence operation.
(2) CANDIDATE, ELECTION, AND POLITICAL
PARTY.—The terms ‘‘candidate’’, ‘‘election’’,
and ‘‘political party’’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 301 of the Fed-
eral Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30101).
(3) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(4) CYBER INTRUSION.—The term ‘‘cyber in-
trusion’’ means an electronic occurrence
that actually or imminently jeopardizes,
without lawful authority, electronic election
infrastructure, or the integrity, confiden-
tiality, or availability of information within
such infrastructure.
(5) ELECTRONIC ELECTION INFRASTRUC-
TURE.—The term ‘‘electronic election infra-
structure’’ means an electronic information
system of any of the following that is related
to an election for Federal office:
(A) The Federal Government.
(B) A State or local government.
(C) A political party.
(D) The election campaign of a candidate.
(6) FEDERAL OFFICE.—The term ‘‘Federal
office’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 301 of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101).
(7) HIGH CONFIDENCE.—The term ‘‘high con-
fidence’’, with respect to a determination,
means that the determination is based on
high-quality information from multiple
sources.
(8) MODERATE CONFIDENCE.—The term
‘‘moderate confidence’’, with respect to a de-
termination, means that a determination is
credibly sourced and plausible but not of suf-
ficient quality or corroborated sufficiently
to warrant a higher level of confidence.
(9) OTHER APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL
COMMITTEES.—The term ‘‘other appropriate
congressional committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs, and the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives.
(b) DETERMINATIONS OF SIGNIFICANT FOR-
EIGN CYBER INTRUSIONS AND ACTIVE MEAS-
URES CAMPAIGNS.—The Director of National
Intelligence, the Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall jointly carry out
subsection (c) if such Directors and the Sec-
retary jointly determine—
(1) that on or after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, a significant foreign cyber
intrusion or active measures campaign in-
tended to influence an upcoming election for
any Federal office has occurred or is occur-
ring; and
(2) with moderate or high confidence, that
such intrusion or campaign can be attributed
to a foreign state or to a foreign nonstate
person, group, or other entity.
(c) BRIEFING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 14 days
after making a determination under sub-
section (b), the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, and the Secretary of Home-
land Security shall jointly provide a briefing
to the congressional leadership, the congres-
sional intelligence committees and, con-
sistent with the protection of sources and
methods, the other appropriate congres-
sional committees. The briefing shall be
classified and address, at a minimum, the
following:
(A) A description of the significant foreign
cyber intrusion or active measures cam-
paign, as the case may be, covered by the de-
termination.
(B) An identification of the foreign state or
foreign nonstate person, group, or other enti-
ty, to which such intrusion or campaign has
been attributed.
(C) The desirability and feasibility of the
public release of information about the cyber
intrusion or active measures campaign.
(D) Any other information such Directors
and the Secretary jointly determine appro-
priate.
(2) ELECTRONIC ELECTION INFRASTRUCTURE
BRIEFINGS.—With respect to a significant for-
eign cyber intrusion covered by a determina-
tion under subsection (b), the Secretary of
Homeland Security, in consultation with the
Director of National Intelligence and the Di-
rector of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, shall offer to the owner or operator of
any electronic election infrastructure di-
rectly affected by such intrusion, a briefing
on such intrusion, including steps that may
be taken to mitigate such intrusion. Such
briefing may be classified and made avail-
able only to individuals with appropriate se-
curity clearances.
(3) PROTECTION OF SOURCES AND METHODS.—
This subsection shall be carried out in a
manner that is consistent with the protec-
tion of sources and methods.
SEC. 509. DESIGNATION OF COUNTERINTEL-
LIGENCE OFFICER TO LEAD ELEC-
TION SECURITY MATTERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall designate a national coun-
terintelligence officer within the National
Counterintelligence and Security Center to
lead, manage, and coordinate counterintel-
ligence matters relating to election security.
(b) ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.—The per-
son designated under subsection (a) shall
also lead, manage, and coordinate counter-
intelligence matters relating to risks posed
by interference from foreign powers (as de-
fined in section 101 of the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C.
1801)) to the following:
(1) The Federal Government election secu-
rity supply chain.
(2) Election voting systems and software.
(3) Voter registration databases.
(4) Critical infrastructure related to elec-
tions.
(5) Such other Government goods and serv-
ices as the Director of National Intelligence
considers appropriate.
TITLE VI—SECURITY CLEARANCES
SEC. 601. DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate;
(D) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
(E) the Committee on Armed Services of
the House of Representatives;
(F) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives;
(G) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives; and
(H) the Committee on Oversight and Gov-
ernment Reform of the House of Representa-
tives.
(2) APPROPRIATE INDUSTRY PARTNERS.—The
term ‘‘appropriate industry partner’’ means
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S712 January 28, 2019
a contractor, licensee, or grantee (as defined
in section 101(a) of Executive Order 12829 (50
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to National Indus-
trial Security Program)) that is partici-
pating in the National Industrial Security
Program established by such Executive
Order.
(3) CONTINUOUS VETTING.—The term ‘‘con-
tinuous vetting’’ has the meaning given such
term in Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161
note; relating to reforming processes related
to suitability for government employment,
fitness for contractor employees, and eligi-
bility for access to classified national secu-
rity information).
(4) COUNCIL.—The term ‘‘Council’’ means
the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing
Performance Accountability Council estab-
lished pursuant to such Executive Order, or
any successor entity.
(5) SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.—The term
‘‘Security Executive Agent’’ means the offi-
cer serving as the Security Executive Agent
pursuant to section 803 of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947, as added by section 605.
(6) SUITABILITY AND CREDENTIALING EXECU-
TIVE AGENT.—The term ‘‘Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent’’ means the
Director of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment acting as the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent in accordance
with Executive Order 13467 (50 U.S.C. 3161
note; relating to reforming processes related
to suitability for government employment,
fitness for contractor employees, and eligi-
bility for access to classified national secu-
rity information), or any successor entity.
SEC. 602. REPORTS AND PLANS RELATING TO SE-
CURITY CLEARANCES AND BACK-
GROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) ensuring the trustworthiness and secu-
rity of the workforce, facilities, and informa-
tion of the Federal Government is of the
highest priority to national security and
public safety;
(2) the President and Congress should
prioritize the modernization of the personnel
security framework to improve its effi-
ciency, effectiveness, and accountability;
(3) the current system for security clear-
ance, suitability and fitness for employment,
and credentialing lacks efficiencies and ca-
pabilities to meet the current threat envi-
ronment, recruit and retain a trusted work-
force, and capitalize on modern technologies;
and
(4) changes to policies or processes to im-
prove this system should be vetted through
the Council to ensure standardization, port-
ability, and reciprocity in security clear-
ances across the Federal Government.
(b) ACCOUNTABILITY PLANS AND REPORTS.—
(1) PLANS.—Not later than 90 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Coun-
cil shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners the following:
(A) A plan, with milestones, to reduce the
background investigation inventory to
200,000, or an otherwise sustainable steady-
level, by the end of year 2020. Such plan shall
include notes of any required changes in in-
vestigative and adjudicative standards or re-
sources.
(B) A plan to consolidate the conduct of
background investigations associated with
the processing for security clearances in the
most effective and efficient manner between
the National Background Investigation Bu-
reau and the Defense Security Service, or a
successor organization. Such plan shall ad-
dress required funding, personnel, contracts,
information technology, field office struc-
ture, policy, governance, schedule, transition
costs, and effects on stakeholders.
(2) REPORT ON THE FUTURE OF PERSONNEL
SECURITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Chairman of the Council, in coordination
with the members of the Council, shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report on the future of
personnel security to reflect changes in
threats, the workforce, and technology.
(B) CONTENTS.—The report submitted
under subparagraph (A) shall include the fol-
lowing:
(i) A risk framework for granting and re-
newing access to classified information.
(ii) A discussion of the use of technologies
to prevent, detect, and monitor threats.
(iii) A discussion of efforts to address reci-
procity and portability.
(iv) A discussion of the characteristics of
effective insider threat programs.
(v) An analysis of how to integrate data
from continuous evaluation, insider threat
programs, and human resources data.
(vi) Recommendations on interagency gov-
ernance.
(3) PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Chairman of the Council, in
coordination with the members of the Coun-
cil, shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners a plan to imple-
ment the report’s framework and rec-
ommendations submitted under paragraph
(2)(A).
(4) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATIONS.—Not less
frequently than quarterly, the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent shall make available to the
public a report regarding the status of the
disposition of requests received from depart-
ments and agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment for a change to, or approval under, the
Federal investigative standards, the national
adjudicative guidelines, continuous evalua-
tion, or other national policy regarding per-
sonnel security.
SEC. 603. IMPROVING THE PROCESS FOR SECU-
RITY CLEARANCES.
(a) REVIEWS.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Security Executive Agent, in coordination
with the members of the Council, shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report that includes the
following:
(1) A review of whether the information re-
quested on the Questionnaire for National
Security Positions (Standard Form 86) and
by the Federal Investigative Standards pre-
scribed by the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment and the Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence appropriately supports
the adjudicative guidelines under Security
Executive Agent Directive 4 (known as the
‘‘National Security Adjudicative Guide-
lines’’). Such review shall include identifica-
tion of whether any such information cur-
rently collected is unnecessary to support
the adjudicative guidelines.
(2) An assessment of whether such Ques-
tionnaire, Standards, and guidelines should
be revised to account for the prospect of a
holder of a security clearance becoming an
insider threat.
(3) Recommendations to improve the back-
ground investigation process by—
(A) simplifying the Questionnaire for Na-
tional Security Positions (Standard Form 86)
and increasing customer support to appli-
cants completing such Questionnaire;
(B) using remote techniques and central-
ized locations to support or replace field in-
vestigation work;
(C) using secure and reliable digitization of
information obtained during the clearance
process;
(D) building the capacity of the back-
ground investigation labor sector; and
(E) replacing periodic reinvestigations
with continuous evaluation techniques in all
appropriate circumstances.
(b) POLICY, STRATEGY, AND IMPLEMENTA-
TION.—Not later than 180 days after the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Security
Executive Agent shall, in coordination with
the members of the Council, establish the
following:
(1) A policy and implementation plan for
the issuance of interim security clearances.
(2) A policy and implementation plan to
ensure contractors are treated consistently
in the security clearance process across
agencies and departments of the United
States as compared to employees of such
agencies and departments. Such policy shall
address—
(A) prioritization of processing security
clearances based on the mission the contrac-
tors will be performing;
(B) standardization in the forms that agen-
cies issue to initiate the process for a secu-
rity clearance;
(C) digitization of background investiga-
tion-related forms;
(D) use of the polygraph;
(E) the application of the adjudicative
guidelines under Security Executive Agent
Directive 4 (known as the ‘‘National Secu-
rity Adjudicative Guidelines’’);
(F) reciprocal recognition of clearances
across agencies and departments of the
United States, regardless of status of peri-
odic reinvestigation;
(G) tracking of clearance files as individ-
uals move from employment with an agency
or department of the United States to em-
ployment in the private sector;
(H) collection of timelines for movement of
contractors across agencies and depart-
ments;
(I) reporting on security incidents and job
performance, consistent with section 552a of
title 5, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Privacy Act of 1974’’), that
may affect the ability to hold a security
clearance;
(J) any recommended changes to the Fed-
eral Acquisition Regulations (FAR) nec-
essary to ensure that information affecting
contractor clearances or suitability is appro-
priately and expeditiously shared between
and among agencies and contractors; and
(K) portability of contractor security
clearances between or among contracts at
the same agency and between or among con-
tracts at different agencies that require the
same level of clearance.
(3) A strategy and implementation plan
that—
(A) provides for periodic reinvestigations
as part of a security clearance determination
only on an as-needed, risk-based basis;
(B) includes actions to assess the extent to
which automated records checks and other
continuous evaluation methods may be used
to expedite or focus reinvestigations; and
(C) provides an exception for certain popu-
lations if the Security Executive Agent—
(i) determines such populations require re-
investigations at regular intervals; and
(ii) provides written justification to the
appropriate congressional committees for
any such determination.
(4) A policy and implementation plan for
agencies and departments of the United
States, as a part of the security clearance
process, to accept automated records checks
generated pursuant to a security clearance
applicant’s employment with a prior em-
ployer.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S713
January 28, 2019
(5) A policy for the use of certain back-
ground materials on individuals collected by
the private sector for background investiga-
tion purposes.
(6) Uniform standards for agency contin-
uous evaluation programs to ensure quality
and reciprocity in accepting enrollment in a
continuous vetting program as a substitute
for a periodic investigation for continued ac-
cess to classified information.
SEC. 604. GOALS FOR PROMPTNESS OF DETER-
MINATIONS REGARDING SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
(a) RECIPROCITY DEFINED.—In this section,
the term ‘‘reciprocity’’ means reciprocal rec-
ognition by Federal departments and agen-
cies of eligibility for access to classified in-
formation.
(b) IN GENERAL.—The Council shall reform
the security clearance process with the ob-
jective that, by December 31, 2021, 90 percent
of all determinations, other than determina-
tions regarding populations identified under
section 603(b)(3)(C), regarding—
(1) security clearances—
(A) at the secret level are issued in 30 days
or fewer; and
(B) at the top secret level are issued in 90
days or fewer; and
(2) reciprocity of security clearances at the
same level are recognized in 2 weeks or
fewer.
(c) CERTAIN REINVESTIGATIONS.—The Coun-
cil shall reform the security clearance proc-
ess with the goal that by December 31, 2021,
reinvestigation on a set periodicity is not re-
quired for more than 10 percent of the popu-
lation that holds a security clearance.
(d) EQUIVALENT METRICS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Council develops a
set of performance metrics that it certifies
to the appropriate congressional committees
should achieve substantially equivalent out-
comes as those outlined in subsections (b)
and (c), the Council may use those metrics
for purposes of compliance within this provi-
sion.
(2) NOTICE.—If the Council uses the author-
ity provided by paragraph (1) to use metrics
as described in such paragraph, the Council
shall, not later than 30 days after commu-
nicating such metrics to departments and
agencies, notify the appropriate congres-
sional committees that it is using such au-
thority.
(e) PLAN.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Coun-
cil shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees and make available to ap-
propriate industry partners a plan to carry
out this section. Such plan shall include rec-
ommended interim milestones for the goals
set forth in subsections (b) and (c) for 2019,
2020, and 2021.
SEC. 605. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title VIII of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 803 and 804 as
sections 804 and 805, respectively; and
(2) by inserting after section 802 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 803. SECURITY EXECUTIVE AGENT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence, or such other officer of the
United States as the President may des-
ignate, shall serve as the Security Executive
Agent for all departments and agencies of
the United States.
‘‘(b) DUTIES.—The duties of the Security
Executive Agent are as follows:
‘‘(1) To direct the oversight of investiga-
tions, reinvestigations, adjudications, and,
as applicable, polygraphs for eligibility for
access to classified information or eligibility
to hold a sensitive position made by any
Federal agency.
‘‘(2) To review the national security back-
ground investigation and adjudication pro-
grams of Federal agencies to determine
whether such programs are being imple-
mented in accordance with this section.
‘‘(3) To develop and issue uniform and con-
sistent policies and procedures to ensure the
effective, efficient, timely, and secure com-
pletion of investigations, polygraphs, and ad-
judications relating to determinations of eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position.
‘‘(4) Unless otherwise designated by law, to
serve as the final authority to designate a
Federal agency or agencies to conduct inves-
tigations of persons who are proposed for ac-
cess to classified information or for eligi-
bility to hold a sensitive position to ascer-
tain whether such persons satisfy the cri-
teria for obtaining and retaining access to
classified information or eligibility to hold a
sensitive position, as applicable.
‘‘(5) Unless otherwise designated by law, to
serve as the final authority to designate a
Federal agency or agencies to determine eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position in
accordance with Executive Order 12968 (50
U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to access to classi-
fied information).
‘‘(6) To ensure reciprocal recognition of eli-
gibility for access to classified information
or eligibility to hold a sensitive position
among Federal agencies, including acting as
the final authority to arbitrate and resolve
disputes among such agencies involving the
reciprocity of investigations and adjudica-
tions of eligibility.
‘‘(7) To execute all other duties assigned to
the Security Executive Agent by law.
‘‘(c) AUTHORITIES.—The Security Executive
Agent shall—
‘‘(1) issue guidelines and instructions to
the heads of Federal agencies to ensure ap-
propriate uniformity, centralization, effi-
ciency, effectiveness, timeliness, and secu-
rity in processes relating to determinations
by such agencies of eligibility for access to
classified information or eligibility to hold a
sensitive position, including such matters as
investigations, polygraphs, adjudications,
and reciprocity;
‘‘(2) have the authority to grant exceptions
to, or waivers of, national security investiga-
tive requirements, including issuing imple-
menting or clarifying guidance, as necessary;
‘‘(3) have the authority to assign, in whole
or in part, to the head of any Federal agency
(solely or jointly) any of the duties of the Se-
curity Executive Agent described in sub-
section (b) or the authorities described in
paragraphs (1) and (2), provided that the ex-
ercise of such assigned duties or authorities
is subject to the oversight of the Security
Executive Agent, including such terms and
conditions (including approval by the Secu-
rity Executive Agent) as the Security Execu-
tive Agent determines appropriate; and
‘‘(4) define and set standards for contin-
uous evaluation for continued access to clas-
sified information and for eligibility to hold
a sensitive position.’’.
(b) REPORT ON RECOMMENDATIONS FOR RE-
VISING AUTHORITIES.—Not later than 30 days
after the date on which the Chairman of the
Council submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees the report required by
section 602(b)(2)(A), the Chairman shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees such recommendations as the Chair-
man may have for revising the authorities of
the Security Executive Agent.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
103H(j)(4)(A) of such Act (50 U.S.C.
3033(j)(4)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘in sec-
tion 804’’ and inserting ‘‘in section 805’’.
(d) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the matter preceding section 2 of
such Act (50 U.S.C. 3002) is amended by strik-
ing the items relating to sections 803 and 804
and inserting the following:
‘‘Sec. 803. Security Executive Agent.
‘‘Sec. 804. Exceptions.
‘‘Sec. 805. Definitions.’’.
SEC. 606. REPORT ON UNIFIED, SIMPLIFIED, GOV-
ERNMENTWIDE STANDARDS FOR PO-
SITIONS OF TRUST AND SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Security Execu-
tive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent, in coordina-
tion with the other members of the Council,
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a report re-
garding the advisability and the risks, bene-
fits, and costs to the Government and to in-
dustry of consolidating to not more than 3
tiers for positions of trust and security
clearances.
SEC. 607. REPORT ON CLEARANCE IN PERSON
CONCEPT.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that to reflect the greater mobility
of the modern workforce, alternative meth-
odologies merit analysis to allow greater
flexibility for individuals moving in and out
of positions that require access to classified
information, while still preserving security.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Security Executive Agent shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and make available to appropriate
industry partners a report that describes the
requirements, feasibility, and advisability of
implementing a clearance in person concept
described in subsection (c).
(c) CLEARANCE IN PERSON CONCEPT.—The
clearance in person concept—
(1) permits an individual who once held a
security clearance to maintain his or her eli-
gibility for access to classified information,
networks, and facilities for up to 3 years
after the individual’s eligibility for access to
classified information would otherwise lapse;
and
(2) recognizes, unless otherwise directed by
the Security Executive Agent, an individ-
ual’s security clearance and background in-
vestigation as current, regardless of employ-
ment status, contingent on enrollment in a
continuous vetting program.
(d) CONTENTS.—The report required under
subsection (b) shall address—
(1) requirements for an individual to volun-
tarily remain in a continuous evaluation
program validated by the Security Executive
Agent even if the individual is not in a posi-
tion requiring access to classified informa-
tion;
(2) appropriate safeguards for privacy;
(3) advantages to government and indus-
try;
(4) the costs and savings associated with
implementation;
(5) the risks of such implementation, in-
cluding security and counterintelligence
risks;
(6) an appropriate funding model; and
(7) fairness to small companies and inde-
pendent contractors.
SEC. 608. BUDGET REQUEST DOCUMENTATION
ON FUNDING FOR BACKGROUND IN-
VESTIGATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—As part of the fiscal year
2020 budget request submitted to Congress
pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United
States Code, the President shall include ex-
hibits that identify the resources expended
by each agency during the prior fiscal year
for processing background investigations and
continuous evaluation programs,
disaggregated by tier and whether the indi-
vidual was a Government employee or con-
tractor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S714 January 28, 2019
(b) CONTENTS.—Each exhibit submitted
under subsection (a) shall include details
on—
(1) the costs of background investigations
or reinvestigations;
(2) the costs associated with background
investigations for Government or contract
personnel;
(3) costs associated with continuous eval-
uation initiatives monitoring for each person
for whom a background investigation or re-
investigation was conducted, other than
costs associated with adjudication;
(4) the average per person cost for each
type of background investigation; and
(5) a summary of transfers and
reprogrammings that were executed in the
previous year to support the processing of se-
curity clearances.
SEC. 609. REPORTS ON RECIPROCITY FOR SECU-
RITY CLEARANCES INSIDE OF DE-
PARTMENTS AND AGENCIES.
(a) RECIPROCALLY RECOGNIZED DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘reciprocally recog-
nized’’ means reciprocal recognition by Fed-
eral departments and agencies of eligibility
for access to classified information.
(b) REPORTS TO SECURITY EXECUTIVE
AGENT.—The head of each Federal depart-
ment or agency shall submit an annual re-
port to the Security Executive Agent that—
(1) identifies the number of individuals
whose security clearances take more than 2
weeks to be reciprocally recognized after
such individuals move to another part of
such department or agency; and
(2) breaks out the information described in
paragraph (1) by type of clearance and the
reasons for any delays.
(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not less frequently
than once each year, the Security Executive
Agent shall submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
industry partners an annual report that sum-
marizes the information received pursuant
to subsection (b) during the period covered
by such report.
SEC. 610. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORTS
ON SECURITY CLEARANCES.
Section 506H of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3104) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by adding
‘‘and’’ at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ‘‘;
and’’ and inserting a period; and
(C) by striking subparagraph (C);
(2) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c);
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORTS.—
(1)(A) Not later than March 1 of each year,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit a report to the congressional intel-
ligence committees, the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate, the Committee on Home-
land Security of the House of Representa-
tives, and the Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform of the House of Rep-
resentatives regarding the security clear-
ances processed by each element of the intel-
ligence community during the preceding fis-
cal year.
‘‘(B) The Director shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the Senate and
the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives such portions of
the report submitted under subparagraph (A)
as the Director determines address elements
of the intelligence community that are with-
in the Department of Defense.
‘‘(C) Each report submitted under this
paragraph shall separately identify security
clearances processed for Federal employees
and contractor employees sponsored by each
such element.
‘‘(2) Each report submitted under para-
graph (1)(A) shall include, for each element
of the intelligence community for the fiscal
year covered by the report, the following:
‘‘(A) The total number of initial security
clearance background investigations spon-
sored for new applicants.
‘‘(B) The total number of security clear-
ance periodic reinvestigations sponsored for
existing employees.
‘‘(C) The total number of initial security
clearance background investigations for new
applicants that were adjudicated with notice
of a determination provided to the prospec-
tive applicant, including—
‘‘(i) the total number of such adjudications
that were adjudicated favorably and granted
access to classified information; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of such adjudica-
tions that were adjudicated unfavorably and
resulted in a denial or revocation of a secu-
rity clearance.
‘‘(D) The total number of security clear-
ance periodic background investigations
that were adjudicated with notice of a deter-
mination provided to the existing employee,
including—
‘‘(i) the total number of such adjudications
that were adjudicated favorably; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of such adjudica-
tions that were adjudicated unfavorably and
resulted in a denial or revocation of a secu-
rity clearance.
‘‘(E) The total number of pending security
clearance background investigations, includ-
ing initial applicant investigations and peri-
odic reinvestigations, that were not adju-
dicated as of the last day of such year and
that remained pending, categorized as fol-
lows:
‘‘(i) For 180 days or shorter.
‘‘(ii) For longer than 180 days, but shorter
than 12 months.
‘‘(iii) For 12 months or longer, but shorter
than 18 months.
‘‘(iv) For 18 months or longer, but shorter
than 24 months.
‘‘(v) For 24 months or longer.
‘‘(F) For any security clearance determina-
tions completed or pending during the year
preceding the year for which the report is
submitted that have taken longer than 12
months to complete—
‘‘(i) an explanation of the causes for the
delays incurred during the period covered by
the report; and
‘‘(ii) the number of such delays involving a
polygraph requirement.
‘‘(G) The percentage of security clearance
investigations, including initial and periodic
reinvestigations, that resulted in a denial or
revocation of a security clearance.
‘‘(H) The percentage of security clearance
investigations that resulted in incomplete
information.
‘‘(I) The percentage of security clearance
investigations that did not result in enough
information to make a decision on poten-
tially adverse information.
‘‘(3) The report required under this sub-
section shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.’’;
and
(4) in subsection (c), as redesignated, by
striking ‘‘subsection (a)(1)’’ and inserting
‘‘subsections (a)(1) and (b)’’.
SEC. 611. PERIODIC REPORT ON POSITIONS IN
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
THAT CAN BE CONDUCTED WITHOUT
ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMA-
TION, NETWORKS, OR FACILITIES.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act and not less fre-
quently than once every 5 years thereafter,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a report that reviews the intel-
ligence community for which positions can
be conducted without access to classified in-
formation, networks, or facilities, or may
only require a security clearance at the se-
cret level.
SEC. 612. INFORMATION SHARING PROGRAM FOR
POSITIONS OF TRUST AND SECURITY
CLEARANCES.
(a) PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall establish and implement a program to
share between and among agencies of the
Federal Government and industry partners
of the Federal Government relevant back-
ground information regarding individuals ap-
plying for and currently occupying national
security positions and positions of trust, in
order to ensure the Federal Government
maintains a trusted workforce.
(2) DESIGNATION.—The program established
under paragraph (1) shall be known as the
‘‘Trusted Information Provider Program’’ (in
this section referred to as the ‘‘Program’’).
(b) PRIVACY SAFEGUARDS.—The Security
Executive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent shall ensure
that the Program includes such safeguards
for privacy as the Security Executive Agent
and the Suitability and Credentialing Execu-
tive Agent consider appropriate.
(c) PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO THE FED-
ERAL GOVERNMENT.—The Program shall in-
clude requirements that enable investigative
service providers and agencies of the Federal
Government to leverage certain pre-employ-
ment information gathered during the em-
ployment or military recruiting process, and
other relevant security or human resources
information obtained during employment
with or for the Federal Government, that
satisfy Federal investigative standards,
while safeguarding personnel privacy.
(d) INFORMATION AND RECORDS.—The infor-
mation and records considered under the
Program shall include the following:
(1) Date and place of birth.
(2) Citizenship or immigration and natu-
ralization information.
(3) Education records.
(4) Employment records.
(5) Employment or social references.
(6) Military service records.
(7) State and local law enforcement
checks.
(8) Criminal history checks.
(9) Financial records or information.
(10) Foreign travel, relatives, or associa-
tions.
(11) Social media checks.
(12) Such other information or records as
may be relevant to obtaining or maintaining
national security, suitability, fitness, or
credentialing eligibility.
(e) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a plan for the
implementation of the Program.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) Mechanisms that address privacy, na-
tional security, suitability or fitness,
credentialing, and human resources or mili-
tary recruitment processes.
(B) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent consider ap-
propriate to carry out or improve the Pro-
gram.
(f) PLAN FOR PILOT PROGRAM ON TWO-WAY
INFORMATION SHARING.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S715
January 28, 2019
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a plan for the
implementation of a pilot program to assess
the feasibility and advisability of expanding
the Program to include the sharing of infor-
mation held by the Federal Government re-
lated to contract personnel with the security
office of the employers of those contractor
personnel.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include the following:
(A) Mechanisms that address privacy, na-
tional security, suitability or fitness,
credentialing, and human resources or mili-
tary recruitment processes.
(B) Such recommendations for legislative
or administrative action as the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent and the Suitability and
Credentialing Executive Agent consider ap-
propriate to carry out or improve the pilot
program.
(g) REVIEW.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Security Executive Agent and the Suit-
ability and Credentialing Executive Agent
shall jointly submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees and make available to
appropriate industry partners a review of the
plans submitted under subsections (e)(1) and
(f)(1) and utility and effectiveness of the pro-
grams described in such plans.
SEC. 613. REPORT ON PROTECTIONS FOR CON-
FIDENTIALITY OF WHISTLEBLOWER-
RELATED COMMUNICATIONS.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Security Ex-
ecutive Agent shall, in coordination with the
Inspector General of the Intelligence Com-
munity, submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report detailing the
controls employed by the intelligence com-
munity to ensure that continuous vetting
programs, including those involving user ac-
tivity monitoring, protect the confiden-
tiality of whistleblower-related communica-
tions.
TITLE VII—REPORTS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Subtitle A—Matters Relating to Russia and
Other Foreign Powers
SEC. 701. LIMITATION RELATING TO ESTABLISH-
MENT OR SUPPORT OF CYBERSECU-
RITY UNIT WITH THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(2) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives;
and
(3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(b) LIMITATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No amount may be ex-
pended by the Federal Government, other
than the Department of Defense, to enter
into or implement any bilateral agreement
between the United States and the Russian
Federation regarding cybersecurity, includ-
ing the establishment or support of any cy-
bersecurity unit, unless, at least 30 days
prior to the conclusion of any such agree-
ment, the Director of National Intelligence
submits to the appropriate congressional
committees a report on such agreement that
includes the elements required by subsection
(c).
(2) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AGREEMENTS.—
Any agreement between the Department of
Defense and the Russian Federation regard-
ing cybersecurity shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 1232 of the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (Public Law 114–328), as amended by sec-
tion 1231 of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law
115–91).
(c) ELEMENTS.—If the Director submits a
report under subsection (b) with respect to
an agreement, such report shall include a de-
scription of each of the following:
(1) The purpose of the agreement.
(2) The nature of any intelligence to be
shared pursuant to the agreement.
(3) The expected value to national security
resulting from the implementation of the
agreement.
(4) Such counterintelligence concerns asso-
ciated with the agreement as the Director
may have and such measures as the Director
expects to be taken to mitigate such con-
cerns.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This section
shall not be construed to affect any existing
authority of the Director of National Intel-
ligence, the Director of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency, or another head of an ele-
ment of the intelligence community, to
share or receive foreign intelligence on a
case-by-case basis.
SEC. 702. REPORT ON RETURNING RUSSIAN COM-
POUNDS.
(a) COVERED COMPOUNDS DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘‘covered compounds’’
means the real property in New York, the
real property in Maryland, and the real prop-
erty in San Francisco, California, that were
under the control of the Government of Rus-
sia in 2016 and were removed from such con-
trol in response to various transgressions by
the Government of Russia, including the in-
terference by the Government of Russia in
the 2016 election in the United States.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR REPORT.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees, and the Committee
on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
of Representatives (only with respect to the
unclassified report), a report on the intel-
ligence risks of returning the covered com-
pounds to Russian control.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by this section shall be submitted in classi-
fied and unclassified forms.
SEC. 703. ASSESSMENT OF THREAT FINANCE RE-
LATING TO RUSSIA.
(a) THREAT FINANCE DEFINED.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘threat finance’’ means—
(1) the financing of cyber operations, glob-
al influence campaigns, intelligence service
activities, proliferation, terrorism, or
transnational crime and drug organizations;
(2) the methods and entities used to spend,
store, move, raise, conceal, or launder money
or value, on behalf of threat actors;
(3) sanctions evasion; and
(4) other forms of threat finance activity
domestically or internationally, as defined
by the President.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in
coordination with the Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury for Intelligence and Analysis,
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report containing an
assessment of Russian threat finance. The
assessment shall be based on intelligence
from all sources, including from the Office of
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence of the
Department of the Treasury.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include each of the fol-
lowing:
(1) A summary of leading examples from
the 3-year period preceding the date of the
submittal of the report of threat finance ac-
tivities conducted by, for the benefit of, or at
the behest of—
(A) officials of the Government of Russia;
(B) persons subject to sanctions under any
provision of law imposing sanctions with re-
spect to Russia;
(C) Russian nationals subject to sanctions
under any other provision of law; or
(D) Russian oligarchs or organized crimi-
nals.
(2) An assessment with respect to any
trends or patterns in threat finance activi-
ties relating to Russia, including common
methods of conducting such activities and
global nodes of money laundering used by
Russian threat actors described in paragraph
(1) and associated entities.
(3) An assessment of any connections be-
tween Russian individuals involved in money
laundering and the Government of Russia.
(4) A summary of engagement and coordi-
nation with international partners on threat
finance relating to Russia, especially in Eu-
rope, including examples of such engagement
and coordination.
(5) An identification of any resource and
collection gaps.
(6) An identification of—
(A) entry points of money laundering by
Russian and associated entities into the
United States;
(B) any vulnerabilities within the United
States legal and financial system, including
specific sectors, which have been or could be
exploited in connection with Russian threat
finance activities; and
(C) the counterintelligence threat posed by
Russian money laundering and other forms
of threat finance, as well as the threat to the
United States financial system and United
States efforts to enforce sanctions and com-
bat organized crime.
(7) Any other matters the Director deter-
mines appropriate.
(d) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
under subsection (b) may be submitted in
classified form.
SEC. 704. NOTIFICATION OF AN ACTIVE MEAS-
URES CAMPAIGN.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of
the Senate and the Committee on Armed
Services of the House of Representatives;
and
(C) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP.—The term
‘‘congressional leadership’’ includes the fol-
lowing:
(A) The majority leader of the Senate.
(B) The minority leader of the Senate.
(C) The Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
(D) The minority leader of the House of
Representatives.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR NOTIFICATION.—The
Director of National Intelligence, in coopera-
tion with the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and the head of any other
relevant agency, shall notify the congres-
sional leadership and the Chairman and Vice
Chairman or Ranking Member of each of the
appropriate congressional committees, and
of other relevant committees of jurisdiction,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S716 January 28, 2019
each time the Director of National Intel-
ligence determines there is credible informa-
tion that a foreign power has, is, or will at-
tempt to employ a covert influence or active
measures campaign with regard to the mod-
ernization, employment, doctrine, or force
posture of the nuclear deterrent or missile
defense.
(c) CONTENT OF NOTIFICATION.—Each notifi-
cation required by subsection (b) shall in-
clude information concerning actions taken
by the United States to expose or halt an at-
tempt referred to in subsection (b).
SEC. 705. NOTIFICATION OF TRAVEL BY ACCRED-
ITED DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR
PERSONNEL OF THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION IN THE UNITED STATES.
In carrying out the advance notification
requirements set out in section 502 of the In-
telligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017 (division N of Public Law 115–31; 131
Stat. 825; 22 U.S.C. 254a note), the Secretary
of State shall—
(1) ensure that the Russian Federation pro-
vides notification to the Secretary of State
at least 2 business days in advance of all
travel that is subject to such requirements
by accredited diplomatic and consular per-
sonnel of the Russian Federation in the
United States, and take necessary action to
secure full compliance by Russian personnel
and address any noncompliance; and
(2) provide notice of travel described in
paragraph (1) to the Director of National In-
telligence and the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation within 1 hour of re-
ceiving notice of such travel.
SEC. 706. REPORT ON OUTREACH STRATEGY AD-
DRESSING THREATS FROM UNITED
STATES ADVERSARIES TO THE
UNITED STATES TECHNOLOGY SEC-
TOR.
(a) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate committees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(3) the Committee on Armed Services,
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform of the House of Representatives.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report detailing outreach by
the intelligence community and the Defense
Intelligence Enterprise to United States in-
dustrial, commercial, scientific, technical,
and academic communities on matters relat-
ing to the efforts of adversaries of the United
States to acquire critical United States
technology, intellectual property, and re-
search and development information.
(c) CONTENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include the following:
(1) A review of the current outreach efforts
of the intelligence community and the De-
fense Intelligence Enterprise described in
subsection (b), including the type of informa-
tion conveyed in the outreach.
(2) A determination of the appropriate ele-
ment of the intelligence community to lead
such outreach efforts.
(3) An assessment of potential methods for
improving the effectiveness of such out-
reach, including an assessment of the fol-
lowing:
(A) Those critical technologies, infrastruc-
ture, or related supply chains that are at
risk from the efforts of adversaries described
in subsection (b).
(B) The necessity and advisability of grant-
ing security clearances to company or com-
munity leadership, when necessary and ap-
propriate, to allow for tailored classified
briefings on specific targeted threats.
(C) The advisability of partnering with en-
tities of the Federal Government that are
not elements of the intelligence community
and relevant regulatory and industry groups
described in subsection (b), to convey key
messages across sectors targeted by United
States adversaries.
(D) Strategies to assist affected elements
of the communities described in subpara-
graph (C) in mitigating, deterring, and pro-
tecting against the broad range of threats
from the efforts of adversaries described in
subsection (b), with focus on producing infor-
mation that enables private entities to jus-
tify business decisions related to national se-
curity concerns.
(E) The advisability of the establishment
of a United States Government-wide task
force to coordinate outreach and activities
to combat the threats from efforts of adver-
saries described in subsection (b).
(F) Such other matters as the Director of
National Intelligence may consider nec-
essary.
(d) CONSULTATION ENCOURAGED.—In pre-
paring the report required by subsection (b),
the Director is encouraged to consult with
other government agencies, think tanks,
academia, representatives of the financial
industry, or such other entities as the Direc-
tor considers appropriate.
(e) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex as
necessary.
SEC. 707. REPORT ON IRANIAN SUPPORT OF
PROXY FORCES IN SYRIA AND LEB-
ANON.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence of
the House of Representatives.
(2) ARMS OR RELATED MATERIAL.—The term
‘‘arms or related material’’ means—
(A) nuclear, biological, chemical, or radio-
logical weapons or materials or components
of such weapons;
(B) ballistic or cruise missile weapons or
materials or components of such weapons;
(C) destabilizing numbers and types of ad-
vanced conventional weapons;
(D) defense articles or defense services, as
those terms are defined in paragraphs (3) and
(4), respectively, of section 47 of the Arms
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794);
(E) defense information, as that term is de-
fined in section 644 of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2403); or
(F) items designated by the President for
purposes of the United States Munitions List
under section 38(a)(1) of the Arms Export
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(1)).
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit to the appropriate committees
of Congress a report on Iranian support of
proxy forces in Syria and Lebanon and the
threat posed to Israel, other United States
regional allies, and other specified interests
of the United States as a result of such sup-
port.
(c) MATTERS FOR INCLUSION.—The report
required under subsection (b) shall include
information relating to the following mat-
ters with respect to both the strategic and
tactical implications for the United States
and its allies:
(1) A description of arms or related mate-
riel transferred by Iran to Hizballah since
March 2011, including the number of such
arms or related materiel and whether such
transfer was by land, sea, or air, as well as fi-
nancial and additional technological capa-
bilities transferred by Iran to Hizballah.
(2) A description of Iranian and Iranian-
controlled personnel, including Hizballah,
Shiite militias, and Iran’s Revolutionary
Guard Corps forces, operating within Syria,
including the number and geographic dis-
tribution of such personnel operating within
30 kilometers of the Israeli borders with
Syria and Lebanon.
(3) An assessment of Hizballah’s oper-
ational lessons learned based on its recent
experiences in Syria.
(4) A description of any rocket-producing
facilities in Lebanon for nonstate actors, in-
cluding whether such facilities were assessed
to be built at the direction of Hizballah lead-
ership, Iranian leadership, or in consultation
between Iranian leadership and Hizballah
leadership.
(5) An analysis of the foreign and domestic
supply chains that significantly facilitate,
support, or otherwise aid Hizballah’s acquisi-
tion or development of missile production fa-
cilities, including the geographic distribu-
tion of such foreign and domestic supply
chains.
(6) An assessment of the provision of goods,
services, or technology transferred by Iran
or its affiliates to Hizballah to indigenously
manufacture or otherwise produce missiles.
(7) An identification of foreign persons
that are based on credible information, fa-
cilitating the transfer of significant finan-
cial support or arms or related materiel to
Hizballah.
(8) A description of the threat posed to
Israel and other United States allies in the
Middle East by the transfer of arms or re-
lated material or other support offered to
Hizballah and other proxies from Iran.
(d) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
under subsection (b) shall be submitted in
unclassified form, but may include a classi-
fied annex.
SEC. 708. ANNUAL REPORT ON IRANIAN EXPENDI-
TURES SUPPORTING FOREIGN MILI-
TARY AND TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act and not less frequently than once
each year thereafter, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to Congress
a report describing Iranian expenditures in
the previous calendar year on military and
terrorist activities outside the country, in-
cluding each of the following:
(1) The amount spent in such calendar year
on activities by the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps, including activities providing
support for—
(A) Hizballah;
(B) Houthi rebels in Yemen;
(C) Hamas;
(D) proxy forces in Iraq and Syria; or
(E) any other entity or country the Direc-
tor determines to be relevant.
(2) The amount spent in such calendar year
for ballistic missile research and testing or
other activities that the Director determines
are destabilizing to the Middle East region.
(b) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 709. EXPANSION OF SCOPE OF COMMITTEE
TO COUNTER ACTIVE MEASURES
AND REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT
OF FOREIGN MALIGN INFLUENCE
CENTER.
(a) SCOPE OF COMMITTEE TO COUNTER AC-
TIVE MEASURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 501 of the Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S717
January 28, 2019
2017 (Public Law 115–31; 50 U.S.C. 3001 note) is
amended—
(A) in subsections (a) through (h)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, the People’s Republic of
China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, or
other nation state’’ after ‘‘Russian Federa-
tion’’ each place it appears; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, China, Iran, North
Korea, or other nation state’’ after ‘‘Russia’’
each place it appears; and
(B) in the section heading, by inserting ‘‘,
THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, THE ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF IRAN, THE DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE’S
REPUBLIC OF KOREA, OR OTHER NATION STATE’’
after ‘‘RUSSIAN FEDERATION’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of such Act is
amended by striking the item relating to
section 501 and inserting the following new
item:
‘‘Sec. 501. Committee to counter active
measures by the Russian Fed-
eration, the People’s Republic
of China, the Islamic Republic
of Iran, the Democratic Peo-
ple’s Republic of Korea, and
other nation states to exert
covert influence over peoples
and governments.’’.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
ordination with such elements of the intel-
ligence community as the Director considers
relevant, shall submit to the congressional
intelligence committees a report on the fea-
sibility and advisability of establishing a
center, to be known as the ‘‘Foreign Malign
Influence Response Center’’, that—
(A) is comprised of analysts from all appro-
priate elements of the intelligence commu-
nity, including elements with related diplo-
matic and law enforcement functions;
(B) has access to all intelligence and other
reporting acquired by the United States Gov-
ernment on foreign efforts to influence,
through overt and covert malign activities,
United States political processes and elec-
tions;
(C) provides comprehensive assessment,
and indications and warning, of such activi-
ties; and
(D) provides for enhanced dissemination of
such assessment to United States policy
makers.
(2) CONTENTS.—The Report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) A discussion of the desirability of the
establishment of such center and any bar-
riers to such establishment.
(B) Such recommendations and other mat-
ters as the Director considers appropriate.
Subtitle B—Reports
SEC. 711. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO INSPEC-
TOR GENERAL STUDY.
Section 11001(d) of title 5, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘AUDIT’’ and inserting ‘‘REVIEW’’;
(2) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘audit’’
and inserting ‘‘review’’; and
(3) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘audit’’
and inserting ‘‘review’’.
SEC. 712. REPORTS ON AUTHORITIES OF THE
CHIEF INTELLIGENCE OFFICER OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives.
(2) HOMELAND SECURITY INTELLIGENCE EN-
TERPRISE.—The term ‘‘Homeland Security
Intelligence Enterprise’’ has the meaning
given such term in Department of Homeland
Security Instruction Number 264–01–001, or
successor authority.
(b) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 120
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
consultation with the Under Secretary of
Homeland Security for Intelligence and
Analysis, shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on the au-
thorities of the Under Secretary.
(c) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (b) shall include each of the fol-
lowing:
(1) An analysis of whether the Under Sec-
retary has the legal and policy authority
necessary to organize and lead the Homeland
Security Intelligence Enterprise, with re-
spect to intelligence, and, if not, a descrip-
tion of—
(A) the obstacles to exercising the authori-
ties of the Chief Intelligence Officer of the
Department and the Homeland Security In-
telligence Council, of which the Chief Intel-
ligence Officer is the chair; and
(B) the legal and policy changes necessary
to effectively coordinate, organize, and lead
intelligence activities of the Department of
Homeland Security.
(2) A description of the actions that the
Secretary has taken to address the inability
of the Under Secretary to require compo-
nents of the Department, other than the Of-
fice of Intelligence and Analysis of the De-
partment to—
(A) coordinate intelligence programs; and
(B) integrate and standardize intelligence
products produced by such other compo-
nents.
SEC. 713. REPORT ON CYBER EXCHANGE PRO-
GRAM.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall sub-
mit to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a report on the potential establish-
ment of a fully voluntary exchange program
between elements of the intelligence commu-
nity and private technology companies under
which—
(1) an employee of an element of the intel-
ligence community with demonstrated ex-
pertise and work experience in cybersecurity
or related disciplines may elect to be tempo-
rarily detailed to a private technology com-
pany that has elected to receive the detailee;
and
(2) an employee of a private technology
company with demonstrated expertise and
work experience in cybersecurity or related
disciplines may elect to be temporarily de-
tailed to an element of the intelligence com-
munity that has elected to receive the
detailee.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) An assessment of the feasibility of es-
tablishing the exchange program described
in such subsection.
(2) Identification of any challenges in es-
tablishing the exchange program.
(3) An evaluation of the benefits to the in-
telligence community that would result
from the exchange program.
SEC. 714. REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS.
(a) REVIEW OF WHISTLEBLOWER MATTERS.—
The Inspector General of the Intelligence
Community, in consultation with the inspec-
tors general for the Central Intelligence
Agency, the National Security Agency, the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, the
Defense Intelligence Agency, and the Na-
tional Reconnaissance Office, shall conduct a
review of the authorities, policies, investiga-
tory standards, and other practices and pro-
cedures relating to intelligence community
whistleblower matters, with respect to such
inspectors general.
(b) OBJECTIVE OF REVIEW.—The objective of
the review required under subsection (a) is to
identify any discrepancies, inconsistencies,
or other issues, which frustrate the timely
and effective reporting of intelligence com-
munity whistleblower matters to appro-
priate inspectors general and to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, and the fair
and expeditious investigation and resolution
of such matters.
(c) CONDUCT OF REVIEW.—The Inspector
General of the Intelligence Community shall
take such measures as the Inspector General
determines necessary in order to ensure that
the review required by subsection (a) is con-
ducted in an independent and objective fash-
ion.
(d) REPORT.—Not later than 270 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a written report con-
taining the results of the review required
under subsection (a), along with rec-
ommendations to improve the timely and ef-
fective reporting of intelligence community
whistleblower matters to inspectors general
and to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees and the fair and expeditious inves-
tigation and resolution of such matters.
SEC. 715. REPORT ON ROLE OF DIRECTOR OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE WITH RE-
SPECT TO CERTAIN FOREIGN IN-
VESTMENTS.
(a) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the heads of the elements of
the intelligence community determined ap-
propriate by the Director, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on the role of the Director in pre-
paring analytic materials in connection with
the evaluation by the Federal Government of
national security risks associated with po-
tential foreign investments into the United
States.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include—
(1) a description of the current process for
the provision of the analytic materials de-
scribed in subsection (a);
(2) an identification of the most significant
benefits and drawbacks of such process with
respect to the role of the Director, including
the sufficiency of resources and personnel to
prepare such materials; and
(3) recommendations to improve such proc-
ess.
SEC. 716. REPORT ON SURVEILLANCE BY FOR-
EIGN GOVERNMENTS AGAINST
UNITED STATES TELECOMMUNI-
CATIONS NETWORKS.
(a) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means the following:
(1) The congressional intelligence commit-
tees.
(2) The Committee on the Judiciary and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on the Judiciary and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall, in co-
ordination with the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, the Director of the Na-
tional Security Agency, the Director of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S718 January 28, 2019
Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the
Secretary of Homeland Security, submit to
the appropriate congressional committees a
report describing—
(1) any attempts known to the intelligence
community by foreign governments to ex-
ploit cybersecurity vulnerabilities in United
States telecommunications networks (in-
cluding Signaling System No. 7) to target for
surveillance United States persons, includ-
ing employees of the Federal Government;
and
(2) any actions, as of the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, taken by the intelligence
community to protect agencies and per-
sonnel of the United States Government
from surveillance conducted by foreign gov-
ernments.
SEC. 717. BIENNIAL REPORT ON FOREIGN IN-
VESTMENT RISKS.
(a) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY INTERAGENCY
WORKING GROUP.—
(1) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH.—The Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall establish
an intelligence community interagency
working group to prepare the biennial re-
ports required by subsection (b).
(2) CHAIRPERSON.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall serve as the chairperson of
such interagency working group.
(3) MEMBERSHIP.—Such interagency work-
ing group shall be composed of representa-
tives of each element of the intelligence
community that the Director of National In-
telligence determines appropriate.
(b) BIENNIAL REPORT ON FOREIGN INVEST-
MENT RISKS.—
(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and not less frequently than once every
2 years thereafter, the Director of National
Intelligence shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security of the House of
Representatives a report on foreign invest-
ment risks prepared by the interagency
working group established under subsection
(a).
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report required by
paragraph (1) shall include identification,
analysis, and explanation of the following:
(A) Any current or projected major threats
to the national security of the United States
with respect to foreign investment.
(B) Any strategy used by a foreign country
that such interagency working group has
identified to be a country of special concern
to use foreign investment to target the ac-
quisition of critical technologies, critical
materials, or critical infrastructure.
(C) Any economic espionage efforts di-
rected at the United States by a foreign
country, particularly such a country of spe-
cial concern.
SEC. 718. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REPORT-
ING REQUIREMENT ON TRAVEL OF
FOREIGN DIPLOMATS.
Section 502(d)(2) of the Intelligence Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public
Law 115–31) is amended by striking ‘‘the
number’’ and inserting ‘‘a best estimate’’.
SEC. 719. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVESTIGA-
TIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED DISCLO-
SURES OF CLASSIFIED INFORMA-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title XI of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3231 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new section:
‘‘SEC. 1105. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON INVES-
TIGATIONS OF UNAUTHORIZED DIS-
CLOSURES OF CLASSIFIED INFOR-
MATION.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) COVERED OFFICIAL.—The term ‘covered
official’ means—
‘‘(A) the heads of each element of the intel-
ligence community; and
‘‘(B) the inspectors general with oversight
responsibility for an element of the intel-
ligence community.
‘‘(2) INVESTIGATION.—The term ‘investiga-
tion’ means any inquiry, whether formal or
informal, into the existence of an unauthor-
ized public disclosure of classified informa-
tion.
‘‘(3) UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE OF CLASSI-
FIED INFORMATION.—The term ‘unauthorized
disclosure of classified information’ means
any unauthorized disclosure of classified in-
formation to any recipient.
‘‘(4) UNAUTHORIZED PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—The term ‘unau-
thorized public disclosure of classified infor-
mation’ means the unauthorized disclosure
of classified information to a journalist or
media organization.
‘‘(b) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORT-
ING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 6 months, each covered official
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on investiga-
tions of unauthorized public disclosures of
classified information.
‘‘(2) ELEMENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include, with re-
spect to the preceding 6-month period, the
following:
‘‘(A) The number of investigations opened
by the covered official regarding an unau-
thorized public disclosure of classified infor-
mation.
‘‘(B) The number of investigations com-
pleted by the covered official regarding an
unauthorized public disclosure of classified
information.
‘‘(C) Of the number of such completed in-
vestigations identified under subparagraph
(B), the number referred to the Attorney
General for criminal investigation.
‘‘(c) DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE REPORTING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 6 months, the Assistant Attorney
General for National Security of the Depart-
ment of Justice, in consultation with the Di-
rector of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees, the Committee on the
Judiciary of the Senate, and the Committee
on the Judiciary of the House of Representa-
tives a report on the status of each referral
made to the Department of Justice from any
element of the intelligence community re-
garding an unauthorized disclosure of classi-
fied information made during the most re-
cent 365-day period or any referral that has
not yet been closed, regardless of the date
the referral was made.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include, for each
referral covered by the report, at a min-
imum, the following:
‘‘(A) The date the referral was received.
‘‘(B) A statement indicating whether the
alleged unauthorized disclosure described in
the referral was substantiated by the Depart-
ment of Justice.
‘‘(C) A statement indicating the highest
level of classification of the information
that was revealed in the unauthorized disclo-
sure.
‘‘(D) A statement indicating whether an
open criminal investigation related to the
referral is active.
‘‘(E) A statement indicating whether any
criminal charges have been filed related to
the referral.
‘‘(F) A statement indicating whether the
Department of Justice has been able to at-
tribute the unauthorized disclosure to a par-
ticular entity or individual.
‘‘(d) FORM OF REPORTS.—Each report sub-
mitted under this section shall be submitted
in unclassified form, but may have a classi-
fied annex.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in the first section of the National
Security Act of 1947 is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 1104 the
following new item:
‘‘Sec. 1105. Semiannual reports on investiga-
tions of unauthorized disclo-
sures of classified informa-
tion.’’.
SEC. 720. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF
DESIGNATION OF COVERED INTEL-
LIGENCE OFFICER AS PERSONA NON
GRATA.
(a) COVERED INTELLIGENCE OFFICER DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘covered
intelligence officer’’ means—
(1) a United States intelligence officer
serving in a post in a foreign country; or
(2) a known or suspected foreign intel-
ligence officer serving in a United States
post.
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR REPORTS.—Not later
than 72 hours after a covered intelligence of-
ficer is designated as a persona non grata,
the Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of State, shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees, the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations of the Senate, and the Committee on
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives a notification of that designation. Each
such notification shall include—
(1) the date of the designation;
(2) the basis for the designation; and
(3) a justification for the expulsion.
SEC. 721. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY PARTICIPATION IN
VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES PROC-
ESS OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES POLICY AND
PROCESS DOCUMENT.—The term
‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document’’ means the executive branch doc-
ument entitled ‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities
Policy and Process’’ dated November 15, 2017.
(2) VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES PROCESS.—
The term ‘‘Vulnerabilities Equities Process’’
means the interagency review of
vulnerabilities, pursuant to the
Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document or any successor document.
(3) VULNERABILITY.—The term ‘‘vulner-
ability’’ means a weakness in an information
system or its components (for example, sys-
tem security procedures, hardware design,
and internal controls) that could be ex-
ploited or could affect confidentiality, integ-
rity, or availability of information.
(b) REPORTS ON PROCESS AND CRITERIA
UNDER VULNERABILITIES EQUITIES POLICY AND
PROCESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the congressional intelligence
committees a written report describing—
(A) with respect to each element of the in-
telligence community—
(i) the title of the official or officials re-
sponsible for determining whether, pursuant
to criteria contained in the Vulnerabilities
Equities Policy and Process document or any
successor document, a vulnerability must be
submitted for review under the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
(ii) the process used by such element to
make such determination; and
(B) the roles or responsibilities of that ele-
ment during a review of a vulnerability sub-
mitted to the Vulnerabilities Equities Proc-
ess.
(2) CHANGES TO PROCESS OR CRITERIA.—Not
later than 30 days after any significant
change is made to the process and criteria
used by any element of the intelligence com-
munity for determining whether to submit a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S719
January 28, 2019
vulnerability for review under the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process, such ele-
ment shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report describing such
change.
(3) FORM OF REPORTS.—Each report sub-
mitted under this subsection shall be sub-
mitted in unclassified form, but may include
a classified annex.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once each calendar year, the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall submit to the con-
gressional intelligence committees a classi-
fied report containing, with respect to the
previous year—
(A) the number of vulnerabilities sub-
mitted for review under the Vulnerabilities
Equities Process;
(B) the number of vulnerabilities described
in subparagraph (A) disclosed to each vendor
responsible for correcting the vulnerability,
or to the public, pursuant to the
Vulnerabilities Equities Process; and
(C) the aggregate number, by category, of
the vulnerabilities excluded from review
under the Vulnerabilities Equities Process,
as described in paragraph 5.4 of the
Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process
document.
(2) UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—Each re-
port submitted under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an unclassified appendix that con-
tains—
(A) the aggregate number of
vulnerabilities disclosed to vendors or the
public pursuant to the Vulnerabilities Equi-
ties Process; and
(B) the aggregate number of vulnerabilities
disclosed to vendors or the public pursuant
to the Vulnerabilities Equities Process
known to have been patched.
(3) NON-DUPLICATION.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence may forgo submission of
an annual report required under this sub-
section for a calendar year, if the Director
notifies the intelligence committees in writ-
ing that, with respect to the same calendar
year, an annual report required by paragraph
4.3 of the Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and
Process document already has been sub-
mitted to Congress, and such annual report
contains the information that would other-
wise be required to be included in an annual
report under this subsection.
SEC. 722. INSPECTORS GENERAL REPORTS ON
CLASSIFICATION.
(a) REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not later than Oc-
tober 1, 2019, each Inspector General listed in
subsection (b) shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a report that
includes, with respect to the department or
agency of the Inspector General, analyses of
the following:
(1) The accuracy of the application of clas-
sification and handling markers on a rep-
resentative sample of finished reports, in-
cluding such reports that are compart-
mented.
(2) Compliance with declassification proce-
dures.
(3) The effectiveness of processes for iden-
tifying topics of public or historical impor-
tance that merit prioritization for a declas-
sification review.
(b) INSPECTORS GENERAL LISTED.—The In-
spectors General listed in this subsection are
as follows:
(1) The Inspector General of the Intel-
ligence Community.
(2) The Inspector General of the Central In-
telligence Agency.
(3) The Inspector General of the National
Security Agency.
(4) The Inspector General of the Defense
Intelligence Agency.
(5) The Inspector General of the National
Reconnaissance Office.
(6) The Inspector General of the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
SEC. 723. REPORTS ON GLOBAL WATER INSECU-
RITY AND NATIONAL SECURITY IM-
PLICATIONS AND BRIEFING ON
EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASE
AND PANDEMICS.
(a) REPORTS ON GLOBAL WATER INSECURITY
AND NATIONAL SECURITY IMPLICATIONS.—
(1) REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act and not less frequently than once every
5 years thereafter, the Director of National
Intelligence shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees a report on
the implications of water insecurity on the
national security interest of the United
States, including consideration of social,
economic, agricultural, and environmental
factors.
(2) ASSESSMENT SCOPE AND FOCUS.—Each re-
port submitted under paragraph (1) shall in-
clude an assessment of water insecurity de-
scribed in such subsection with a global
scope, but focus on areas of the world—
(A) of strategic, economic, or humani-
tarian interest to the United States—
(i) that are, as of the date of the report, at
the greatest risk of instability, conflict,
human insecurity, or mass displacement; or
(ii) where challenges relating to water in-
security are likely to emerge and become
significant during the 5-year or the 20-year
period beginning on the date of the report;
and
(B) where challenges relating to water in-
security are likely to imperil the national
security interests of the United States or al-
lies of the United States.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In researching a report
required by paragraph (1), the Director shall
consult with—
(A) such stakeholders within the intel-
ligence community, the Department of De-
fense, and the Department of State as the
Director considers appropriate; and
(B) such additional Federal agencies and
persons in the private sector as the Director
considers appropriate.
(4) FORM.—Each report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
(b) BRIEFING ON EMERGING INFECTIOUS DIS-
EASE AND PANDEMICS.—
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on Armed Services, and the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives; and
(C) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on Armed Services, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
(2) BRIEFING.—Not later than 120 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence shall pro-
vide to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees a briefing on the anticipated geo-
political effects of emerging infectious dis-
ease (including deliberate, accidental, and
naturally occurring infectious disease
threats) and pandemics, and their implica-
tions on the national security of the United
States.
(3) CONTENT.—The briefing under para-
graph (2) shall include an assessment of—
(A) the economic, social, political, and se-
curity risks, costs, and impacts of emerging
infectious diseases on the United States and
the international political and economic sys-
tem;
(B) the economic, social, political, and se-
curity risks, costs, and impacts of a major
transnational pandemic on the United States
and the international political and economic
system; and
(C) contributing trends and factors to the
matters assessed under subparagraphs (A)
and (B).
(4) EXAMINATION OF RESPONSE CAPACITY.—In
examining the risks, costs, and impacts of
emerging infectious disease and a possible
transnational pandemic under paragraph (3),
the Director of National Intelligence shall
also examine in the briefing under paragraph
(2) the response capacity within affected
countries and the international system. In
considering response capacity, the Director
shall include—
(A) the ability of affected nations to effec-
tively detect and manage emerging infec-
tious diseases and a possible transnational
pandemic;
(B) the role and capacity of international
organizations and nongovernmental organi-
zations to respond to emerging infectious
disease and a possible pandemic, and their
ability to coordinate with affected and donor
nations; and
(C) the effectiveness of current inter-
national frameworks, agreements, and
health systems to respond to emerging infec-
tious diseases and a possible transnational
pandemic.
(5) FORM.—The briefing under paragraph (2)
may be classified.
SEC. 724. ANNUAL REPORT ON MEMORANDA OF
UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN ELE-
MENTS OF INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY AND OTHER ENTITIES OF THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT RE-
GARDING SIGNIFICANT OPER-
ATIONAL ACTIVITIES OR POLICY.
Section 311 of the Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (50 U.S.C. 3313)
is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c); and
(2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Each year, concurrent
with the annual budget request submitted by
the President to Congress under section 1105
of title 31, United States Code, each head of
an element of the intelligence community
shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report that lists each
memorandum of understanding or other
agreement regarding significant operational
activities or policy entered into during the
most recently completed fiscal year between
or among such element and any other entity
of the United States Government.
‘‘(b) PROVISION OF DOCUMENTS.—Each head
of an element of an intelligence community
who receives a request from the Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the Senate or the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
of the House of Representatives for a copy of
a memorandum of understanding or other
document listed in a report submitted by the
head under subsection (a) shall submit to
such committee the requested copy as soon
as practicable after receiving such request.’’.
SEC. 725. STUDY ON THE FEASIBILITY OF
ENCRYPTING UNCLASSIFIED
WIRELINE AND WIRELESS TELE-
PHONE CALLS.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall complete a study on the feasibility of
encrypting unclassified wireline and wireless
telephone calls between personnel in the in-
telligence community.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date on which the Director completes the
study required by subsection (a), the Direc-
tor shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the Direc-
tor’s findings with respect to such study.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S720 January 28, 2019
SEC. 726. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR
ANNUAL REPORT ON HIRING AND
RETENTION OF MINORITY EMPLOY-
EES.
(a) EXPANSION OF PERIOD OF REPORT.—Sub-
section (a) of section 114 of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3050) is amended
by inserting ‘‘and the preceding 5 fiscal
years’’ after ‘‘fiscal year’’.
(b) CLARIFICATION ON DISAGGREGATION OF
DATA.—Subsection (b) of such section is
amended, in the matter before paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘disaggregated data by category
of covered person from each element of the
intelligence community’’ and inserting
‘‘data, disaggregated by category of covered
person and by element of the intelligence
community,’’.
SEC. 727. REPORTS ON INTELLIGENCE COMMU-
NITY LOAN REPAYMENT AND RE-
LATED PROGRAMS.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) there should be established, through the
issuing of an Intelligence Community Direc-
tive or otherwise, an intelligence commu-
nity-wide program for student loan repay-
ment, student loan forgiveness, financial
counseling, and related matters, for employ-
ees of the intelligence community;
(2) creating such a program would enhance
the ability of the elements of the intel-
ligence community to recruit, hire, and re-
tain highly qualified personnel, including
with respect to mission-critical and hard-to-
fill positions;
(3) such a program, including with respect
to eligibility requirements, should be de-
signed so as to maximize the ability of the
elements of the intelligence community to
recruit, hire, and retain highly qualified per-
sonnel, including with respect to mission-
critical and hard-to-fill positions; and
(4) to the extent possible, such a program
should be uniform throughout the intel-
ligence community and publicly promoted
by each element of the intelligence commu-
nity to both current employees of the ele-
ment as well as to prospective employees of
the element.
(b) REPORT ON POTENTIAL INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY-WIDE PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence, in co-
operation with the heads of the elements of
the intelligence community and the heads of
any other appropriate department or agency
of the Federal Government, shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report on potentially establishing and car-
rying out an intelligence community-wide
program for student loan repayment, student
loan forgiveness, financial counseling, and
related matters, as described in subsection
(a).
(2) MATTERS INCLUDED.—The report under
paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
(A) A description of the financial resources
that the elements of the intelligence com-
munity would require to establish and ini-
tially carry out the program specified in
paragraph (1).
(B) A description of the practical steps to
establish and carry out such a program.
(C) The identification of any legislative ac-
tion the Director determines necessary to es-
tablish and carry out such a program.
(c) ANNUAL REPORTS ON ESTABLISHED PRO-
GRAMS.—
(1) COVERED PROGRAMS DEFINED.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘covered programs’’
means any loan repayment program, loan
forgiveness program, financial counseling
program, or similar program, established
pursuant to title X of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3191 et seq.) or any
other provision of law that may be adminis-
tered or used by an element of the intel-
ligence community.
(2) ANNUAL REPORTS REQUIRED.—Not less
frequently than once each year, the Director
of National Intelligence shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees a re-
port on the covered programs. Each such re-
port shall include, with respect to the period
covered by the report, the following:
(A) The number of personnel from each ele-
ment of the intelligence community who
used each covered program.
(B) The total amount of funds each ele-
ment expended for each such program.
(C) A description of the efforts made by
each element to promote each covered pro-
gram pursuant to both the personnel of the
element of the intelligence community and
to prospective personnel.
SEC. 728. REPEAL OF CERTAIN REPORTING RE-
QUIREMENTS.
(a) CORRECTING LONG-STANDING MATERIAL
WEAKNESSES.—Section 368 of the Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Pub-
lic Law 110–259; 50 U.S.C. 3051 note) is hereby
repealed.
(b) INTERAGENCY THREAT ASSESSMENT AND
COORDINATION GROUP.—Section 210D of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 124k)
is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (c); and
(2) by redesignating subsections (d)
through (i) as subsections (c) through (h), re-
spectively; and
(3) in subsection (c), as so redesignated—
(A) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a period; and
(B) by striking paragraph (9).
(c) INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT.—Section
8H of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5
U.S.C. App.) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (g); and
(2) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i)
as subsections (g) and (h), respectively.
SEC. 729. INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMUNITY REPORT ON
SENIOR EXECUTIVES OF THE OF-
FICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
(a) SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE POSITION
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘Senior
Executive Service position’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 3132(a)(2) of title
5, United States Code, and includes any posi-
tion above the GS–15, step 10, level of the
General Schedule under section 5332 of such
title.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity shall submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees a report on the number
of Senior Executive Service positions in the
Office of the Director of National Intel-
ligence.
(c) MATTERS INCLUDED.—The report under
subsection (b) shall include the following:
(1) The number of required Senior Execu-
tive Service positions for the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence.
(2) Whether such requirements are reason-
ably based on the mission of the Office.
(3) A discussion of how the number of the
Senior Executive Service positions in the Of-
fice compare to the number of senior posi-
tions at comparable organizations.
(d) COOPERATION.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall provide to the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity any information requested by the In-
spector General of the Intelligence Commu-
nity that is necessary to carry out this sec-
tion by not later than 14 calendar days after
the date on which the Inspector General of
the Intelligence Community makes such re-
quest.
SEC. 730. BRIEFING ON FEDERAL BUREAU OF IN-
VESTIGATION OFFERING PERMA-
NENT RESIDENCE TO SOURCES AND
COOPERATORS.
Not later than 30 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation shall pro-
vide to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees a briefing on the ability of the Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation to offer, as an
inducement to assisting the Bureau, perma-
nent residence within the United States to
foreign individuals who are sources or co-
operators in counterintelligence or other na-
tional security-related investigations. The
briefing shall address the following:
(1) The extent to which the Bureau may
make such offers, whether independently or
in conjunction with other agencies and de-
partments of the United States Government,
including a discussion of the authorities pro-
vided by section 101(a)(15)(S) of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(15)(S)), section 7 of the Central Intel-
ligence Agency Act (50 U.S.C. 3508), and any
other provision of law under which the Bu-
reau may make such offers.
(2) An overview of the policies and oper-
ational practices of the Bureau with respect
to making such offers.
(3) The sufficiency of such policies and
practices with respect to inducing individ-
uals to cooperate with, serve as sources for
such investigations, or both.
(4) Whether the Director recommends any
legislative actions to improve such policies
and practices, particularly with respect to
the counterintelligence efforts of the Bu-
reau.
SEC. 731. INTELLIGENCE ASSESSMENT OF NORTH
KOREA REVENUE SOURCES.
(a) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED.—Not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Director of National Intel-
ligence, in coordination with the Assistant
Secretary of State for Intelligence and Re-
search and the Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury for Intelligence and Analysis, shall
produce an intelligence assessment of the
revenue sources of the North Korean regime.
Such assessment shall include revenue from
the following sources:
(1) Trade in coal, iron, and iron ore.
(2) The provision of fishing rights to North
Korean territorial waters.
(3) Trade in gold, titanium ore, vanadium
ore, copper, silver, nickel, zinc, or rare earth
minerals, and other stores of value.
(4) Trade in textiles.
(5) Sales of conventional defense articles
and services.
(6) Sales of controlled goods, ballistic mis-
siles, and other associated items.
(7) Other types of manufacturing for ex-
port, as the Director of National Intelligence
considers appropriate.
(8) The exportation of workers from North
Korea in a manner intended to generate sig-
nificant revenue, directly or indirectly, for
use by the government of North Korea.
(9) The provision of nonhumanitarian
goods (such as food, medicine, and medical
devices) and services by other countries.
(10) The provision of services, including
banking and other support, including by en-
tities located in the Russian Federation,
China, and Iran.
(11) Online commercial activities of the
Government of North Korea, including on-
line gambling.
(12) Criminal activities, including cyber-
enabled crime and counterfeit goods.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The assessment required
under subsection (a) shall include an identi-
fication of each of the following:
(1) The sources of North Korea’s funding.
(2) Financial and non-financial networks,
including supply chain management, trans-
portation, and facilitation, through which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S721
January 28, 2019
North Korea accesses the United States and
international financial systems and repatri-
ates and exports capital, goods, and services;
and
(3) the global financial institutions, money
services business, and payment systems that
assist North Korea with financial trans-
actions.
(c) SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS.—Upon com-
pletion of the assessment required under sub-
section (a), the Director of National Intel-
ligence shall submit to the congressional in-
telligence committees a copy of such assess-
ment.
SEC. 732. REPORT ON POSSIBLE EXPLOITATION
OF VIRTUAL CURRENCIES BY TER-
RORIST ACTORS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Stop Terrorist Use of Virtual
Currencies Act’’.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Director of National Intelligence, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, shall submit to Congress a report on the
possible exploitation of virtual currencies by
terrorist actors. Such report shall include
the following elements:
(1) An assessment of the means and meth-
ods by which international terrorist organi-
zations and State sponsors of terrorism use
virtual currencies.
(2) An assessment of the use by terrorist
organizations and State sponsors of ter-
rorism of virtual currencies compared to the
use by such organizations and States of
other forms of financing to support oper-
ations, including an assessment of the collec-
tion posture of the intelligence community
on the use of virtual currencies by such orga-
nizations and States.
(3) A description of any existing legal im-
pediments that inhibit or prevent the intel-
ligence community from collecting informa-
tion on or helping prevent the use of virtual
currencies by international terrorist organi-
zations and State sponsors of terrorism and
an identification of any gaps in existing law
that could be exploited for illicit funding by
such organizations and States.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
by subsection (b) shall be submitted in un-
classified form, but may include a classified
annex.
SEC. 733. INCLUSION OF DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
IN ANNUAL REPORT RELATING TO
SECTION 702 OF THE FOREIGN IN-
TELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT OF
1978.
Section 707(b)(1)(G)(ii) of the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C.
1881f(b)(1)(G)(ii)) is amended by inserting be-
fore the semicolon the following: ‘‘, includ-
ing whether disciplinary actions were taken
as a result of such an incident of noncompli-
ance and the extent of such disciplinary ac-
tions’’.
Subtitle C—Other Matters
SEC. 741. PUBLIC INTEREST DECLASSIFICATION
BOARD.
Section 710(b) of the Public Interest De-
classification Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–567;
50 U.S.C. 3161 note) is amended by striking
‘‘December 31, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘Decem-
ber 31, 2028’’.
SEC. 742. SECURING ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs and the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources of
the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Homeland Security
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives.
(2) COVERED ENTITY.—The term ‘‘covered
entity’’ means an entity identified pursuant
to section 9(a) of Executive Order 13636 of
February 12, 2013 (78 Fed. Reg. 11742), relat-
ing to identification of critical infrastruc-
ture where a cybersecurity incident could
reasonably result in catastrophic regional or
national effects on public health or safety,
economic security, or national security.
(3) EXPLOIT.—The term ‘‘exploit’’ means a
software tool designed to take advantage of
a security vulnerability.
(4) INDUSTRIAL CONTROL SYSTEM.—The term
‘‘industrial control system’’ means an oper-
ational technology used to measure, control,
or manage industrial functions, and includes
supervisory control and data acquisition sys-
tems, distributed control systems, and pro-
grammable logic or embedded controllers.
(5) NATIONAL LABORATORY.—The term ‘‘Na-
tional Laboratory’’ has the meaning given
the term in section 2 of the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
(6) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘Program’’ means
the pilot program established under sub-
section (b).
(7) SECRETARY.—Except as otherwise spe-
cifically provided, the term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Energy.
(8) SECURITY VULNERABILITY.—The term
‘‘security vulnerability’’ means any at-
tribute of hardware, software, process, or
procedure that could enable or facilitate the
defeat of a security control.
(b) PILOT PROGRAM FOR SECURING ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall establish a 2-year control
systems implementation pilot program with-
in the National Laboratories for the pur-
poses of—
(1) partnering with covered entities in the
energy sector (including critical component
manufacturers in the supply chain) that vol-
untarily participate in the Program to iden-
tify new classes of security vulnerabilities of
the covered entities; and
(2) evaluating technology and standards, in
partnership with covered entities, to isolate
and defend industrial control systems of cov-
ered entities from security vulnerabilities
and exploits in the most critical systems of
the covered entities, including—
(A) analog and nondigital control systems;
(B) purpose-built control systems; and
(C) physical controls.
(c) WORKING GROUP TO EVALUATE PROGRAM
STANDARDS AND DEVELOP STRATEGY.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish a working group—
(A) to evaluate the technology and stand-
ards used in the Program under subsection
(b)(2); and
(B) to develop a national cyber-informed
engineering strategy to isolate and defend
covered entities from security
vulnerabilities and exploits in the most crit-
ical systems of the covered entities.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The working group es-
tablished under paragraph (1) shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 10 members, to be ap-
pointed by the Secretary, at least 1 member
of which shall represent each of the fol-
lowing:
(A) The Department of Energy.
(B) The energy industry, including electric
utilities and manufacturers recommended by
the Energy Sector coordinating councils.
(C)(i) The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity; or
(ii) the Industrial Control Systems Cyber
Emergency Response Team.
(D) The North American Electric Reli-
ability Corporation.
(E) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
(F)(i) The Office of the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence; or
(ii) the intelligence community (as defined
in section 3 of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)).
(G)(i) The Department of Defense; or
(ii) the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Homeland Security and America’s Security
Affairs.
(H) A State or regional energy agency.
(I) A national research body or academic
institution.
(J) The National Laboratories.
(d) REPORTS ON THE PROGRAM.—
(1) INTERIM REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date on which funds are first
disbursed under the Program, the Secretary
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees an interim report that—
(A) describes the results of the Program;
(B) includes an analysis of the feasibility
of each method studied under the Program;
and
(C) describes the results of the evaluations
conducted by the working group established
under subsection (c)(1).
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 2 years
after the date on which funds are first dis-
bursed under the Program, the Secretary
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a final report that—
(A) describes the results of the Program;
(B) includes an analysis of the feasibility
of each method studied under the Program;
and
(C) describes the results of the evaluations
conducted by the working group established
under subsection (c)(1).
(e) EXEMPTION FROM DISCLOSURE.—Infor-
mation shared by or with the Federal Gov-
ernment or a State, Tribal, or local govern-
ment under this section—
(1) shall be deemed to be voluntarily
shared information;
(2) shall be exempt from disclosure under
section 552 of title 5, United States Code, or
any provision of any State, Tribal, or local
freedom of information law, open govern-
ment law, open meetings law, open records
law, sunshine law, or similar law requiring
the disclosure of information or records; and
(3) shall be withheld from the public, with-
out discretion, under section 552(b)(3) of title
5, United States Code, and any provision of
any State, Tribal, or local law requiring the
disclosure of information or records.
(f) PROTECTION FROM LIABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A cause of action against
a covered entity for engaging in the vol-
untary activities authorized under sub-
section (b)—
(A) shall not lie or be maintained in any
court; and
(B) shall be promptly dismissed by the ap-
plicable court.
(2) VOLUNTARY ACTIVITIES.—Nothing in this
section subjects any covered entity to liabil-
ity for not engaging in the voluntary activi-
ties authorized under subsection (b).
(g) NO NEW REGULATORY AUTHORITY FOR
FEDERAL AGENCIES.—Nothing in this section
authorizes the Secretary or the head of any
other department or agency of the Federal
Government to issue new regulations.
(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) PILOT PROGRAM.—There is authorized to
be appropriated $10,000,000 to carry out sub-
section (b).
(2) WORKING GROUP AND REPORT.—There is
authorized to be appropriated $1,500,000 to
carry out subsections (c) and (d).
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts made avail-
able under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall re-
main available until expended.
SEC. 743. BUG BOUNTY PROGRAMS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S722 January 28, 2019
(A) the congressional intelligence commit-
tees;
(B) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Armed Services and
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives.
(2) BUG BOUNTY PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘bug
bounty program’’ means a program under
which an approved computer security spe-
cialist or security researcher is temporarily
authorized to identify and report
vulnerabilities within the information sys-
tem of an agency or department of the
United States in exchange for compensation.
(3) INFORMATION SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘infor-
mation system’’ has the meaning given that
term in section 3502 of title 44, United States
Code.
(b) BUG BOUNTY PROGRAM PLAN.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Defense,
shall submit to appropriate committees of
Congress a strategic plan for appropriate
agencies and departments of the United
States to implement bug bounty programs.
(2) CONTENTS.—The plan required by para-
graph (1) shall include—
(A) an assessment of—
(i) the ‘‘Hack the Pentagon’’ pilot program
carried out by the Department of Defense in
2016 and subsequent bug bounty programs in
identifying and reporting vulnerabilities
within the information systems of the De-
partment of Defense; and
(ii) private sector bug bounty programs, in-
cluding such programs implemented by lead-
ing technology companies in the United
States; and
(B) recommendations on the feasibility of
initiating bug bounty programs at appro-
priate agencies and departments of the
United States.
SEC. 744. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES RE-
LATING TO THE NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE UNIVERSITY.
(a) CIVILIAN FACULTY MEMBERS; EMPLOY-
MENT AND COMPENSATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1595(c) of title 10,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(5) The National Intelligence Univer-
sity.’’.
(2) COMPENSATION PLAN.—The Secretary of
Defense shall provide each person employed
as a full-time professor, instructor, or lec-
turer at the National Intelligence University
on the date of the enactment of this Act an
opportunity to elect to be paid under the
compensation plan in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this Act
(with no reduction in pay) or under the au-
thority of section 1595 of title 10, United
States Code, as amended by paragraph (1).
(b) ACCEPTANCE OF FACULTY RESEARCH
GRANTS.—Section 2161 of such title is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) ACCEPTANCE OF FACULTY RESEARCH
GRANTS.—The Secretary of Defense may au-
thorize the President of the National Intel-
ligence University to accept qualifying re-
search grants in the same manner and to the
same degree as the President of the National
Defense University under section 2165(e) of
this title.’’.
(c) PILOT PROGRAM ON ADMISSION OF PRI-
VATE SECTOR CIVILIANS TO RECEIVE INSTRUC-
TION.—
(1) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Defense shall commence
carrying out a pilot program to assess the
feasability and advisability of permitting el-
igible private sector employees who work in
organizations relevant to national security
to receive instruction at the National Intel-
ligence University.
(B) DURATION.—The Secretary shall carry
out the pilot program during the 3-year pe-
riod beginning on the date of the commence-
ment of the pilot program.
(C) EXISTING PROGRAM.—The Secretary
shall carry out the pilot program in a man-
ner that is consistent with section 2167 of
title 10, United States Code.
(D) NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS.—No more
than the equivalent of 35 full-time student
positions may be filled at any one time by
private sector employees enrolled under the
pilot program.
(E) DIPLOMAS AND DEGREES.—Upon success-
ful completion of the course of instruction in
which enrolled, any such private sector em-
ployee may be awarded an appropriate di-
ploma or degree under section 2161 of title 10,
United States Code.
(2) ELIGIBLE PRIVATE SECTOR EMPLOYEES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sub-
section, an eligible private sector employee
is an individual employed by a private firm
that is engaged in providing to the Depart-
ment of Defense, the intelligence commu-
nity, or other Government departments or
agencies significant and substantial intel-
ligence or defense-related systems, products,
or services or whose work product is relevant
to national security policy or strategy.
(B) LIMITATION.—Under this subsection, a
private sector employee admitted for in-
struction at the National Intelligence Uni-
versity remains eligible for such instruction
only so long as that person remains em-
ployed by the same firm, holds appropriate
security clearances, and complies with any
other applicable security protocols.
(3) ANNUAL CERTIFICATION BY SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE.—Under the pilot program, private
sector employees may receive instruction at
the National Intelligence University during
any academic year only if, before the start of
that academic year, the Secretary of Defense
determines, and certifies to the Committee
on Armed Services of the Senate and the
Committee on Armed Services of the House
of Representatives, that providing instruc-
tion to private sector employees under this
section during that year will further the na-
tional security interests of the United
States.
(4) PILOT PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—The
Secretary of Defense shall ensure that—
(A) the curriculum in which private sector
employees may be enrolled under the pilot
program is not readily available through
other schools and concentrates on national
security-relevant issues; and
(B) the course offerings at the National In-
telligence University are determined by the
needs of the Department of Defense and the
intelligence community.
(5) TUITION.—The President of the National
Intelligence University shall charge students
enrolled under the pilot program a rate
that—
(A) is at least the rate charged for employ-
ees of the United States outside the Depart-
ment of Defense, less infrastructure costs;
and
(B) considers the value to the school and
course of the private sector student.
(6) STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.—While receiv-
ing instruction at the National Intelligence
University, students enrolled under the pilot
program, to the extent practicable, are sub-
ject to the same regulations governing aca-
demic performance, attendance, norms of be-
havior, and enrollment as apply to Govern-
ment civilian employees receiving instruc-
tion at the university.
(7) USE OF FUNDS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts received by the
National Intelligence University for instruc-
tion of students enrolled under the pilot pro-
gram shall be retained by the university to
defray the costs of such instruction.
(B) RECORDS.—The source, and the disposi-
tion, of such funds shall be specifically iden-
tified in records of the university.
(8) REPORTS.—
(A) ANNUAL REPORTS.—Each academic year
in which the pilot program is carried out,
the Secretary shall submit to the congres-
sional intelligence committees, the Com-
mittee on Armed Services of the Senate, and
the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives a report on the
number of eligible private sector employees
participating in the pilot program.
(B) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the conclusion of the pilot
program, the Secretary shall submit to the
congressional intelligence committees, the
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate,
and the Committee on Armed Services of the
House of Representatives a report on the
findings of the Secretary with respect to the
pilot program. Such report shall include—
(i) the findings of the Secretary with re-
spect to the feasability and advisability of
permitting eligible private sector employees
who work in organizations relevant to na-
tional security to receive instruction at the
National Intelligence University; and
(ii) a recommendation as to whether the
pilot program should be extended.
SEC. 745. TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL AMEND-
MENTS TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY
ACT OF 1947.
(a) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents at the beginning of the National Secu-
rity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) by inserting after the item relating to
section 2 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 3. Definitions.’’;
(2) by striking the item relating to section
107;
(3) by striking the item relating to section
113B and inserting the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 113B. Special pay authority for
science, technology, engineer-
ing, or mathematics posi-
tions.’’;
(4) by striking the items relating to sec-
tions 202, 203, 204, 208, 209, 210, 211, 212, 213,
and 214; and
(5) by inserting after the item relating to
section 311 the following new item:
‘‘Sec. 312. Repealing and saving provisions.’’.
(b) OTHER TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Such
Act is further amended—
(1) in section 102A—
(A) in subparagraph (G) of paragraph (1) of
subsection (g), by moving the margins of
such subparagraph 2 ems to the left; and
(B) in paragraph (3) of subsection (v), by
moving the margins of such paragraph 2 ems
to the left;
(2) in section 106—
(A) by inserting ‘‘SEC. 106’’ before ‘‘(a)’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (I) of paragraph (2) of
subsection (b), by moving the margins of
such subparagraph 2 ems to the left;
(3) by striking section 107;
(4) in section 108(c), by striking ‘‘in both a
classified and an unclassified form’’ and in-
serting ‘‘to Congress in classified form, but
may include an unclassified summary’’;
(5) in section 112(c)(1), by striking ‘‘section
103(c)(7)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 102A(i)’’;
(6) by amending section 201 to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘SEC. 201. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
‘‘Except to the extent inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or other provisions
of law, the provisions of title 5, United
States Code, shall be applicable to the De-
partment of Defense.’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S723
January 28, 2019
(7) in section 205, by redesignating sub-
sections (b) and (c) as subsections (a) and (b),
respectively;
(8) in section 206, by striking ‘‘(a)’’;
(9) in section 207, by striking ‘‘(c)’’;
(10) in section 308(a), by striking ‘‘this
Act’’ and inserting ‘‘sections 2, 101, 102, 103,
and 303 of this Act’’;
(11) by redesignating section 411 as section
312;
(12) in section 503—
(A) in paragraph (5) of subsection (c)—
(i) by moving the margins of such para-
graph 2 ems to the left; and
(ii) by moving the margins of subparagraph
(B) of such paragraph 2 ems to the left; and
(B) in paragraph (2) of subsection (d), by
moving the margins of such paragraph 2 ems
to the left; and
(13) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of
subsection (a) of section 504, by moving the
margins of such subparagraph 2 ems to the
right.
SEC. 746. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATED TO
THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.
(a) NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINIS-
TRATION ACT.—
(1) CLARIFICATION OF FUNCTIONS OF THE AD-
MINISTRATOR FOR NUCLEAR SECURITY.—Sub-
section (b) of section 3212 of the National Nu-
clear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C.
2402(b)) is amended—
(A) by striking paragraphs (11) and (12);
and
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (13)
through (19) as paragraphs (11) through (17),
respectively.
(2) COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS.—Sec-
tion 3233(b) of the National Nuclear Security
Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2423(b)) is
amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘Administration’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Department’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘Intelligence and’’ after
‘‘the Office of’’.
(b) ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACT.—Section
4524(b)(2) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act
(50 U.S.C. 2674(b)(2)) is amended by inserting
‘‘Intelligence and’’ after ‘‘The Director of’’.
(c) NATIONAL SECURITY ACT OF 1947.—Para-
graph (2) of section 106(b) of the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3041(b)(2)) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ‘‘and
Counterintelligence’’ after ‘‘Office of Intel-
ligence’’;
(2) by striking subparagraph (F);
(3) by redesignating subparagraphs (G), (H),
and (I) as subparagraphs (F), (G), and (H), re-
spectively; and
(4) in subparagraph (H), as so redesignated,
by realigning the margin of such subpara-
graph 2 ems to the left.
SEC. 747. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NOTIFICATION
OF CERTAIN DISCLOSURES OF CLAS-
SIFIED INFORMATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ADVERSARY FOREIGN GOVERNMENT.—The
term ‘‘adversary foreign government’’ means
the government of any of the following for-
eign countries:
(A) North Korea.
(B) Iran.
(C) China.
(D) Russia.
(E) Cuba.
(2) COVERED CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.—The
term ‘‘covered classified information’’ means
classified information that was—
(A) collected by an element of the intel-
ligence community; or
(B) provided by the intelligence service or
military of a foreign country to an element
of the intelligence community.
(3) ESTABLISHED INTELLIGENCE CHANNELS.—
The term ‘‘established intelligence chan-
nels’’ means methods to exchange intel-
ligence to coordinate foreign intelligence re-
lationships, as established pursuant to law
by the Director of National Intelligence, the
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency,
the Director of the National Security Agen-
cy, or other head of an element of the intel-
ligence community.
(4) INDIVIDUAL IN THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH.—
The term ‘‘individual in the executive
branch’’ means any officer or employee of
the executive branch, including individuals—
(A) occupying a position specified in arti-
cle II of the Constitution;
(B) appointed to a position by an indi-
vidual described in subparagraph (A); or
(C) serving in the civil service or the Sen-
ior Executive Service (or similar service for
senior executives of particular departments
or agencies).
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that section
502 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3092) requires elements of the intel-
ligence community to keep the congres-
sional intelligence committees ‘‘fully and
currently informed’’ about all ‘‘intelligence
activities’’ of the United States, and to ‘‘fur-
nish to the congressional intelligence com-
mittees any information or material con-
cerning intelligence activities * * * which is
requested by either of the congressional in-
telligence committees in order to carry out
its authorized responsibilities.’’.
(c) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) section 502 of the National Security Act
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3092), together with other
intelligence community authorities, obli-
gates an element of the intelligence commu-
nity to submit to the congressional intel-
ligence committees written notification, by
not later than 7 days after becoming aware,
that an individual in the executive branch
has disclosed covered classified information
to an official of an adversary foreign govern-
ment using methods other than established
intelligence channels; and
(2) each such notification should include—
(A) the date and place of the disclosure of
classified information covered by the notifi-
cation;
(B) a description of such classified infor-
mation;
(C) identification of the individual who
made such disclosure and the individual to
whom such disclosure was made; and
(D) a summary of the circumstances of
such disclosure.
SEC. 748. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CONSIDER-
ATION OF ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES
WHEN CONSIDERING WHETHER OR
NOT TO PROVIDE VISAS TO FOREIGN
INDIVIDUALS TO BE ACCREDITED
TO A UNITED NATIONS MISSION IN
THE UNITED STATES.
It is the sense of the Congress that the
Secretary of State, in considering whether or
not to provide a visa to a foreign individual
to be accredited to a United Nations mission
in the United States, should consider—
(1) known and suspected intelligence ac-
tivities, espionage activities, including ac-
tivities constituting precursors to espionage,
carried out by the individual against the
United States, foreign allies of the United
States, or foreign partners of the United
States; and
(2) the status of an individual as a known
or suspected intelligence officer for a foreign
adversary.
SEC. 749. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON WIKILEAKS.
It is the sense of Congress that WikiLeaks
and the senior leadership of WikiLeaks re-
semble a nonstate hostile intelligence serv-
ice often abetted by state actors and should
be treated as such a service by the United
States.
SA 58. Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill S. 1, to
make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and
to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. ANTI-SEMITISM AWARENESS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Anti-Semitism Awareness Act
of 2019’’.
(b) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
(1) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
(referred to in the subsection as ‘‘title VI’’)
is one of the principal antidiscrimination
statutes enforced by the Department of Edu-
cation’s Office for Civil Rights.
(2) Title VI prohibits discrimination on the
basis of race, color, or national origin.
(3) Both the Department of Justice and the
Department of Education have properly con-
cluded that title VI prohibits discrimination
against Jews, Muslims, Sikhs, and members
of other religious groups when the discrimi-
nation is based on the group’s actual or per-
ceived shared ancestry or ethnic characteris-
tics or when the discrimination is based on
actual or perceived citizenship or residence
in a country whose residents share a domi-
nant religion or a distinct religious identity.
(4) A September 8, 2010, letter from Assist-
ant Attorney General Thomas E. Perez to
Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights
Russlynn H. Ali stated that ‘‘[a]lthough
Title VI does not prohibit discrimination on
the basis of religion, discrimination against
Jews, Muslims, Sikhs, and members of other
groups violates Title VI when that discrimi-
nation is based on the group’s actual or per-
ceived shared ancestry or ethnic characteris-
tics’’.
(5) To assist State and local educational
agencies and schools in their efforts to com-
ply with Federal law, the Department of
Education periodically issues Dear Colleague
letters. On a number of occasions, these let-
ters set forth the Department of Education’s
interpretation of the statutory and regu-
latory obligations of schools under title VI.
(6) On September 13, 2004, the Department
of Education issued a Dear Colleague letter
regarding the obligations of schools (includ-
ing colleges) under title VI to address inci-
dents involving religious discrimination. The
2004 letter specifically notes that ‘‘since the
attacks of September 11, 2001, OCR has re-
ceived complaints of race or national origin
harassment commingled with aspects of reli-
gious discrimination against Arab Muslim,
Sikh, and Jewish students.’’.
(7) An October 26, 2010, Dear Colleague let-
ter issued by the Department of Education
stated, ‘‘While Title VI does not cover dis-
crimination based solely on religion, groups
that face discrimination on the basis of ac-
tual or perceived shared ancestry or ethnic
characteristics may not be denied protection
under Title VI on the ground that they also
share a common faith. These principles apply
not just to Jewish students, but also to stu-
dents from any discrete religious group that
shares, or is perceived to share, ancestry or
ethnic characteristics (e.g., Muslims or
Sikhs).’’.
(8) Anti-Semitism, and harassment on the
basis of actual or perceived shared ancestry
or ethnic characteristics with a religious
group, remains a persistent, disturbing prob-
lem in elementary and secondary schools and
on college campuses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.023 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S724 January 28, 2019
(9) Students from a range of diverse back-
grounds, including Jewish, Arab Muslim, and
Sikh students, are being threatened, har-
assed, or intimidated in their schools (in-
cluding on their campuses) on the basis of
their shared ancestry or ethnic characteris-
tics including through harassing conduct
that creates a hostile environment so severe,
pervasive, or persistent so as to interfere
with or limit some students’ ability to par-
ticipate in or benefit from the services, ac-
tivities, or opportunities offered by schools.
(10) The 2010 Dear Colleague letter cau-
tioned schools that they ‘‘must take prompt
and effective steps reasonably calculated to
end the harassment, eliminate any hostile
environment, and its effects, and prevent the
harassment from recurring,’’ but did not pro-
vide guidance on current manifestations of
anti-Semitism, including discriminatory
anti-Semitic conduct that is couched as anti-
Israel or anti-Zionist.
(11) The definition and examples referred
to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (c)
have been valuable tools to help identify
contemporary manifestations of anti-Semi-
tism, and include useful examples of dis-
criminatory anti-Israel conduct that crosses
the line into anti-Semitism.
(12) Awareness of this definition of anti-
Semitism will increase understanding of the
parameters of contemporary anti-Jewish
conduct and will assist the Department of
Education in determining whether an inves-
tigation of anti-Semitism under title VI is
warranted.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘definition of anti-Semi-
tism’’—
(1) includes the definition of anti-Semitism
set forth by the Special Envoy to Monitor
and Combat Anti-Semitism of the Depart-
ment of State in the Fact Sheet issued on
June 8, 2010; and
(2) includes the examples set forth under
the headings ‘‘Contemporary Examples of
Anti-Semitism’’ and ‘‘What is Anti-Semi-
tism Relative to Israel?’’ of the Fact Sheet.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION FOR TITLE VI OF
THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964.—In reviewing,
investigating, or deciding whether there has
been a violation of title VI of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.) on
the basis of race, color, or national origin,
based on an individual’s actual or perceived
shared Jewish ancestry or Jewish ethnic
characteristics, the Department of Edu-
cation shall take into consideration the defi-
nition of anti-Semitism as part of the De-
partment’s assessment of whether the prac-
tice was motivated by anti-Semitic intent.
(e) ADMINISTRATION.—The Assistant Sec-
retary for Civil Rights shall administer and
enforce title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.) and title IX of
the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C.
1681 et seq.) in a manner that is consistent
with the manner of administration and en-
forcement described in the Dear Colleague
letter issued on September 13, 2004, by the
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Enforcement
of the Department of Education, entitled
‘‘Title VI and Title IX Religious Discrimina-
tion in Schools and Colleges’’.
(f) OTHER RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—
(1) GENERAL RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Noth-
ing in this section shall be construed—
(A) to expand the authority of the Sec-
retary of Education;
(B) to alter the standards pursuant to
which the Department of Education makes a
determination that harassing conduct
amounts to actionable discrimination; or
(C) to diminish or infringe upon the rights
protected under any other provision of law
that is in effect as of the date of enactment
of this Act.
(2) CONSTITUTIONAL PROTECTIONS.—Nothing
in this section shall be construed to diminish
or infringe upon any right protected under
the First Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, JANUARY
29, 2019
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m., Tuesday, January
29; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, I ask that the
Senate recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15
p.m. to allow for the weekly conference
meetings; finally, I ask that all time
during adjournment, recess, morning
business, and leader remarks count
postcloture on the motion to proceed
to S. 1.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. BOOZMAN. If there is no further
business to come before the Senate, I
ask unanimous consent that it stand
adjourned under the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:52 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday,
January 29, 2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:39 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA6.024 S28JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E97
January 28, 2019
RECOGNIZING INTERNATIONAL
HOLOCAUST REMEMBRANCE DAY
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize International Holocaust Remem-
brance Day which marks the anniversary of
the 1945 liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau. I
join with people around the world to com-
memorate the millions of lives lost to Nazism,
especially the six million Jewish lives lost.
It is imperative that we remember the loss
of those six million people and, also, the peo-
ple who survived and those who helped them
survive. Of the 1.3 million people taken to
Auschwitz, an estimated 1.1 million were
killed.
In 1984, as a young State Senator, I spon-
sored legislation to create the Tennessee Hol-
ocaust Commission, one of the first such state
Commissions. I’m very proud of the work of
the Tennessee Holocaust Commission, much
of which is educating Tennessee teachers so
they can teach children about the Holocaust.
As we remember the lives lost, we should
also remember those who survived and, also,
the military that liberated the camps and the
hundreds of thousands of righteous gentiles
who risked their own lives to save Jews. The
Holocaust showed that a society that tolerates
antisemitism is susceptible to other forms of
racism, hatred, and oppression.
I urge all Americans visiting Washington to
visit the U.S. Holocaust Museum and I urge all
Tennesseans and those visiting Nashville to
go to the Memorial on the State Capitol
Grounds, situated alongside six cedar trees
representing six million people, to remember
and to understand why we must always re-
member and stand up against antisemitism,
racism, hatred and oppression wherever and
whenever it occurs.
f
HONORING EVA MARGARITA
BRAVO
HON. DEBBIE LESKO
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and celebrate a life well-lived by Eva
Margarita Bravo. At 58 years old, Eva passed
away in a Mesa, Arizona hospital with her
family by her side on December 7, 2018.
Eva was a native Arizonan, born on July 21,
1961 and was raised with seven brothers and
sisters. She lived in Mesa for over thirty years
of her life, where she raised two children,
Cealia Bravo and Roberto Bravo III (Bobby),
with her husband of thirty years, Roberto
Bravo Jr. Eva faithfully served her community
as a Medical Assistant, then a Certified Nurs-
ing Assistant. She proceeded to follow her
passion and had a long, successful career in
baking and cake decorating.
Her son, Bobby, has served on my staff
both in Washington, D.C. and Arizona for five
years while taking care of his mother in her
last few years of life. His dedication to his
mother and family while working with distinc-
tion on my staff is admirable and inspiring.
Eva was a great mother to her children. She
leaves behind a legacy of love for her family
and committed service to her community. It is
impossible to write into words the impact and
value a person’s life has on another, but Eva
will be greatly missed by her family, friends
and the Mesa community. On behalf of Arizo-
na’s Eighth Congressional District, I extend my
deepest condolences to Eva’s children, Cealia
and Bobby, their family, and their friends who
mourn this loss.
f
COMMEMORATING THE BICENTEN-
NIAL OF THE FOUNDING OF
SIMPSON COUNTY AND THE CITY
OF FRANKLIN
HON. JAMES COMER
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the bicentennial of the found-
ing of Simpson County and the City of Frank-
lin in the 1st Congressional District of Ken-
tucky.
Simpson County was founded on January
28, 1819 with the City of Franklin formally in-
corporated in 1820. To honor both, the local
community is beginning a year-long celebra-
tion on Monday, which will highlight their
shared past and anticipate their bright future.
Simpson County’s namesake, Captain John
Simpson, was elected to the U.S. House of
Representatives in 1812, but postponed serv-
ice in the House to fight in the War of 1812.
Although Captain Simpson died before return-
ing home from the war, his legacy carries on
in the selfless service displayed daily by the
residents of Simpson County. I appreciate the
generations of local officials, military veterans
and citizens of Franklin-Simpson who have
steadfastly devoted themselves to the better-
ment of others. I am also grateful for all who
have assisted with the planning of the celebra-
tion. This historic milestone is a culmination of
their efforts and a testament to their collective
pride for their beloved community.
I look forward to continuing to work with
local leaders and residents to further the eco-
nomic and industrial prosperity of Simpson
County and the City of Franklin for genera-
tions to come. I join with the county’s current
and former residents in honoring this tight-knit,
culturally rich community.
HONORING GWEN SHELTON OF
FAYETTEVILLE, TN FOR TWEN-
TY YEAR CAREER IN PUBLIC
SERVICE
HON. SCOTT DesJARLAIS
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mr. DESJARLAIS. Madam Speaker, today I
would like to take a moment to honor the well-
served career in public service of Gwen
Shelton. Gwen is stepping away from her role
as Fayetteville city alderman after a 20-year
career of holding public office and serving in
several roles for the city of Fayetteville.
Since 1998, she has served as an elected
official on the city school board, twice as city
alderman (First from 2004 to 2006, then again
from 2012 to 2018), and as Mayor from 2006
to 2010. Along with these duties, Gwen has
also served as the Industrial Development
Board director for Fayetteville-Lincoln County,
in which she led many efforts to increase in-
vestment and job growth within the commu-
nity.
Perhaps the best thing you can say of
Gwen’s time as a public official in Fayetteville
is that whether you agreed with her positions
and policies or you didn’t, you always knew
where she stood on an issue and you always
knew she was working to do what she felt was
in the best interest of the city of Fayetteville
and its people. That trust in her as a leader
provides understanding as to the secret of her
success and gives all elected officials a stand-
ard to strive for.
Gwen Shelton has served her family and
her community well, and while she will be
deeply missed in Fayetteville, her success will
not stop here. She and her husband, Scott,
have both been presented with promising new
opportunities in Huntsville, Alabama and I am
confident that the next chapter for these two
will be just as good if not better than the last.
We wish her and her family the absolute best,
and again, I would like to personally thank her
for her outstanding service to the city of Fay-
etteville, Lincoln County and the state of Ten-
nessee.
f
INTRODUCING THE TRANSITION-
TO-SUCCESS MENTORING ACT
HON. ANDRÉ CARSON
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I
am introducing the Transition-To-Success
Mentoring Act to help local education agencies
prepare at-risk students for the transition from
middle school to high school.
The Transition-To-Success Mentoring Act
would establish a grant program for school-
based mentoring programs targeted at helping
at-risk middle school students transition from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K28JA8.001 E28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E98 January 28, 2019
middle to high school. Under my legislation,
participating students would develop and exe-
cute a formalized plan for success in high
school and beyond, and be supported by a
school faculty member or volunteer from the
community known as a ‘‘Success Coach.’’
Middle school is a uniquely challenging time
for students, and ensuring a smooth transition
from middle to high school is critical to their
long-term success. School-based mentoring is
an innovative supplement to the traditional
learning that takes place in the classroom,
providing underserved and at-risk students
with attention and support to keep them en-
gaged in school. This legislation is a small
step towards providing some of the most vul-
nerable students with individual attention to
help cross the bridge towards high school, col-
lege, and career. I urge you to join me.
f
TRIBUTE TO JOYCE SIBLEY
HON. CHIP ROY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mr. ROY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
pay tribute to one of Texas’s longest tenured
and most respected staffers, Mrs. Joyce Sib-
ley of Austin. For 32 years, Joyce has served
the United States Senate. During that time,
Joyce earned a reputation as a problem solver
who always went the extra mile for those she
served.
Joyce’s resume stands among the most im-
pressive in modem Texas history. She began
working in government in 1971 by answering
phones for Senator John Tower’s Austin of-
fice. She later went on to work for Governor
Bill Clements, Governor George W. Bush, and
the Honorable Kay Bailey Hutchison.
There are countless stories demonstrating
her willingness to go above and beyond for
Texans facing difficult challenges at home and
abroad. During my tenure as Chief of Staff for
Senator TED CRUZ, I had the good fortune of
witnessing Joyce’s invaluable expertise. It is
often difficult to deal with the bureaucracy of
the Federal Government, but Joyce brought
confidence and a tenacious attitude to our
team, and made tedious work look easy.
Of all the people with whom I have worked
in my career, none surpass Joyce with regard
to her servant’s heart, her grace, and her hu-
mility. She was the kind of colleague you
could count on to support the Senator, myself,
and all the staff. She called to offer support
when you needed it—personally or profes-
sionally. She truly was one of the best in the
business.
She will now have more time to do the
things she loves. We happen to share a love
of blues and outlaw country that is unique to
Austin’s storied music scene—from Stevie Ray
and Jimmie Vaughan to James Cotton. I am
certain retirement will be filled with many live
shows in Austin, where I look forward to cele-
brating the next chapter in your life.
Again, I want to congratulate Joyce on her
decades of service and extend my sincere,
heartfelt thanks for the dedication and skill she
has brought to the people of Texas. Without
question, she will have a long-lasting impact
on the State of Texas and Congressional staff
for years to come.
Joyce is a blessing to all who know her and
while I am sad to see her leave this post of
service, I know the Lord has much more in
store for that great heart of hers. Godspeed,
my friend.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF JACK SHIFREL
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and legacy of Mr. Jack
Shifrel. For decades, Jack was a tireless voice
for our veterans, the Democratic Party, and for
countless other causes close to his heart. I
was blessed to count him as a close friend.
He was one of the very first people to endorse
me for public office. He supported me in three
losing causes, and in 1992 when I was first
elected to Congress. I will always be eternally
grateful to my dear, dear friend.
Jack dedicated his life to serving our com-
munity. As a proud veteran, he worked tire-
lessly to ensure that his fellow veterans had
access to the services they rightfully deserved.
He was deeply committed to improving access
to health services, and his advocacy helped
make it safer and easier for veterans to ac-
cess the VA Clinic in Sunrise, Florida. Among
the many hats Jack wore was that of the
President of the Broward Veterans Coalition,
where the good work he did continues to posi-
tively affect the lives of those who have
served our country.
Jack was also known for going out of his
way to mentor the next generation of Demo-
cratic activists, and was always available for
advice and counsel. As a leader in the
Broward Democratic Party, he was a delegate
to five Democratic national conventions and
an outspoken advocate for equal rights and
what he considered our collective responsi-
bility to each other. He was serving his 10th
four-year term as a Democratic Party com-
mitteeman, and was just as committed to mak-
ing our community and country stronger as the
day he began. That’s who Jack was, and he
was one of a kind. He made our entire com-
munity a better place, and every life he
touched was made better. His loss will be felt
in Broward County for years to come.
I extend my deepest condolences to Jack’s
wife, Laurie, his children Darrin, David, and
Jillian, his siblings Lori, Myke, and Scott, his
grandchildren, and his entire family during this
extremely difficult time.
f
HONORING THE MIDDLETOWN
LIONS CLUB ON THE CELEBRA-
TION OF THEIR 90TH ANNIVER-
SARY
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, it is with
great pride that I rise today to extend my
heartfelt congratulations to the Middletown
Lions Club as they celebrate their 90th Anni-
versary. Striving to always meet the Lions’
motto, ‘‘We Serve,’’ the Middletown Lions
have served our community and the families
they serve with pride and distinction.
The second oldest chartered Lions Club in
Connecticut, the impact that the Middletown
Lions have had in the community is immeas-
urable. In 1961, the Club volunteered for and
helped to establish Big Brothers Big Sisters;
they created Lions Park in 1963, a space that
families continue to enjoy today; they have
managed the vendor services for the Middle-
town Regatta; and helped to coordinate the
first ‘‘After Ball’’ which provided a safe envi-
ronment for graduating high school seniors to
eat, dance, and socialize on prom night. The
Club continues to strengthen our community
through their support of the food bank and
service projects for the hungry and homeless
at the St. Vincent DePaul soup kitchen and
the New Horizon’s Women Shelter.
At the heart of any Lion’s Club is their mis-
sion to supporting individuals with vision im-
pairments. To that end, the Middletown Lions
have conducted medical and eye screenings
for countless adults, seniors and children. Ad-
ditionally, their work with and support of
KidSight USA has helped to save the vision of
some of our most vulnerable children six
months to six years of age. For the Middle-
town Lions, their service projects extend be-
yond supporting those facing visual impair-
ments. Their work on behalf of the Clara Bar-
ton Diabetes Camp Rising Sun, a camp for
children with cancer, the Connecticut Radio In-
formation System for the blind or print chal-
lenged, as well as their fundraising efforts to
provide hearing aids and service dogs have
made all the difference in the lives of thou-
sands of families and children.
Over the course of the last ninety years, the
Middletown Lions have not only met their mis-
sion but have set the standard for what it
means to live up to the motto ‘‘We Serve.’’
Today, as they celebrate their 90th Anniver-
sary, I am honored to stand today to pay trib-
ute to the Middletown Lions Club for the myr-
iad of ways that they have improved the qual-
ity of life for children, adults, and seniors as
well for all of their efforts to enrich the Middle-
town community. Congratulations on this re-
markable milestone and best wishes for many
more years of success.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE PRO-
MOTING ACCESS TO DIABETIC
SHOES ACT
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, today
I am pleased to introduce the Promoting Ac-
cess to Diabetic Shoes Act, which would re-
move an unnecessary burden, allowing a
nurse practitioner or physician assistant to
prescribe diabetic shoes.
According to the American Diabetes Asso-
ciation, 1.5 million Americans are diagnosed
with diabetes every year, and it is a condition
that affects approximately 9 percent of the
population. Both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetics
are faced with a high lifetime risk of devel-
oping foot ulcers. Specialized insoles and foot-
wear are required to prevent further break-
down and injury, and to ensure that recurring
ulcers do not develop. If these ulcers are al-
lowed to recur multiple times, patients can
lose toes or feet entirely.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28JA8.004 E28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E99
January 28, 2019
Currently, nurse practitioners and physician
assistants, who often act as primary care pro-
viders for many patients with diabetes, are re-
quired to refer diabetic Medicare patients who
need therapeutic shoes to a physician for fur-
ther certification. The patient must then refer
to the physician going forward. In addition to
accruing unnecessary fees, this process
delays patients from getting efficient and time-
sensitive care.
Timely access to diabetic shoes is crucial,
and is well within the scope of treatment that
nurse practitioners and physician assistants
should be able to prescribe. That is why I am
proud to sponsor the Promoting Access to Di-
abetic Shoes Act, and I urge all of my col-
leagues to join me to pass this important piece
of legislation.
f
CELEBRATING BOONE DRUG’S
100TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. VIRGINIA FOXX
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise to congratulate Boone Drug in
Boone, North Carolina, on celebrating the
100th anniversary of the founding of its origi-
nal store, opened in North Carolina’s Fifth Dis-
trict by Dr. George Kelly Moose. With this lon-
gevity of service in the community, Boone
Drug can truly claim to be a neighborhood in-
stitution. When it opened, it was one of only
two drugstores in Boone, and it has thrived in
the midst of the changes of the pharma-
ceutical industry through the last century.
For 50 years, customers went to see Dr.
Moose, walking from miles away to buy their
medicine at Boone Drug. The upstairs of the
building was occupied by a group of doctors
and a dentist, which kept constant traffic mov-
ing in and out of the store. Dr. Moose even
kept his drugstore open until each doctor had
seen his last patient, often late into the night.
In 1947, two brothers, Dr. Odell Kelly—
‘‘O.K.’’ for Odell Kelly—and Dr. Wayne Rich-
ardson, joined Dr. Moose at the pharmacy.
The space was expanded for a soda fountain
and grill, where many locals socialized, and
the town’s movers and shakers talked politics.
Joe Miller was next to join the Boone Drug
ownership. Having worked at the fountain in
high school, the Richardson brothers con-
vinced him to go to pharmacy school and
eventually made him a fourth owner.
Dr. Miller was joined by Dr. John Stacy and
Dr. Jim Furman. They have kept alive the leg-
acy of customer service, philanthropy, and
business expansion of their predecessors. The
Boone Drug pharmacists often volunteered
their services, staying open until 9 p.m.; so
that physicians could work long hours and pa-
tients could fill their prescriptions after a late-
night doctor’s visit. The store’s philosophy was
that anyone who came in with a prescription
left with medicine, even if one didn’t have the
means to cover the entire prescription’s cost
right away.
In the mid-1980s, Dr. Miller broadened the
store’s horizons, selling art supplies. The pop-
ular art supply store, named Cheap Joe’s Art
Stuff, began in the upstairs of the drugstore.
At first, art supplies were placed on shelves
between over-the-counter medicines down-
stairs. Eventually, what started as Dr. Miller’s
hobby outgrew the drugstore and Cheap Joe’s
Art Stuff moved into its own location, serving
customers worldwide.
Although the drugstore’s fountain and grill
closed in 2011, the owners have filled its
former space with a nonprofit community kitch-
en that feeds the hungry. Today, there are 17
Boone Drug locations in North Carolina, South
Carolina, and Tennessee. The pharmacists in
these pharmacies serve as direct contacts for
medical information without an appointment or
the expense of a doctor’s visit. Boone Drug
provides a shining example of the important
role that pharmacies play in supporting healthy
communities. They provide immunizations, du-
rable medical equipment, counseling, and ex-
pertise in healthcare.
I have been a patron of Boone Drug since
moving to Boone as a student at Appalachian
State University and always enjoy my visits to
the store. I continue to love all the wonderful
employees and am privileged to represent this
small business and local pharmacy. It treats
clients like family, which is the hallmark of a
small-town drugstore that lasts a century, and
I wish Boone Drug another 100 years of suc-
cess.
f
IN HONOR OF THE 88TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE AMERICAN LEGION
FLETCHER MCCOLLISTER POST
135
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize the 88th Anniversary of The
American Legion—Fletcher McCollister Post
135.
The American Legion Post—Fletcher
McCollister 135 in Phenix City, Alabama was
chartered on April 3, 1931. It was named for
Robert Fletcher and Theodore McCollister,
both of Phenix City, who were killed in action
during World War I.
In September of 1919, Congress chartered
The American Legion. The organization cele-
brates is 100th Anniversary this year.
On March 16, 2019, The American Legion—
Fletcher McCollister Post 135 will host an
event to commemorate their 88th Anniversary.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating The American Legion Post—Fletch-
er McCollister Post 135 on their 88th Anniver-
sary.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. VICKY HARTZLER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, on
Thursday, January 24, 2019, I was unable to
vote. Had I been present, I would have voted
as follows:
on roll call no. 50: YEA, and
on roll call no. 51: NAY.
HONORING PEGGY TURK BOYER
HON. ANN KIRKPATRICK
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Peggy Turk Boyer, Executive
Director of the Intercultural Center for the
Study of Deserts and Oceans (CEDO), a bi-
national, non-profit organization whose mis-
sion is the protection of the marine life in the
Northern Gulf of California region. She is retir-
ing from her position in 2019 after 40 years of
service.
Peggy has devoted her life to preserving the
marine environment of the northern Gulf of
California and the livelihoods of the people
who live there. Her work started in 1980 in
Puerto Penasco, Sonora, Mexico, when Peggy
began managing a marine research field sta-
tion with her husband. That field station grew
into the headquarters of CEDO.
Peggy recognized early on that the Gulf of
California region is impacted by the social dy-
namics and conservation efforts on both sides
of the border. This insight produced a govern-
ance structure for CEDO composed of two
independent boards—one Mexican and one
American—to share responsibility for finding
resources, developing strategies and insuring
the financial stability of the organization.
Peggy has raised millions of dollars in Mexico
and the United States from international foun-
dations, government agencies, research con-
tracts, individual donors, and events to support
CEDO’s work.
CEDO has established trust with local fish-
ing communities and the Mexican government.
From developing fishing gear that reduces
harmful by-catch to providing training on moni-
toring populations and regulations, CEDO has
been in a partnership with fishermen and
women, supporting local communities while
also giving these communities the tools to
make their livelihoods sustainable and envi-
ronmentally responsible. CEDO’s ongoing
educational programs for children and adults,
including natural history talks, ecotours, envi-
ronmental contests, beach clean-ups, and a
binational marine biology camp for youth, have
helped develop a culture of environmental
stewardship.
Peggy’s vision also included environmental
protection. She served on the management
planning committees for both the Upper Gulf
of California and Colorado River Delta Bio-
sphere Reserve and the Pinacate and Gran
Desierto de Altar Biosphere Reserve. She was
one of four individuals who were recognized
by both the Mexican and U.S. Government for
her invaluable contributions to the creation of
these two Biosphere Reserves. Peggy and
CEDO have received numerous awards on
both sides of the border for their work in con-
servation, education, and tourism. Most re-
cently, CEDO received first place among re-
cipients of the first National Award for Sustain-
able Fisheries and Aquaculture. The award
was for CEDO’s work in developing coopera-
tive, grass-roots stewardship of the fishing
communities of the Sonoran Corridor.
Peggy Turk Boyer and CEDO have been
agents for meaningful change, working tire-
lessly towards goals of conservation and pro-
tection for vulnerable communities both human
and marine. We honor her life’s work and her
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28JA8.008 E28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E100 January 28, 2019
dedication. Her visionary ideas and many ac-
complishments have inspired us all.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BOB GIBBS
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mr. GIBBS. Madam Speaker, I was unable
to attend votes the week of January 22–24
due to a medical procedure performed in my
home State of Ohio.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 044, YEA on Roll Call
No. 045, NAY on Roll Call No. 046, NAY on
Roll Call No. 047, YEA on Roll Call No. 048,
NAY on Roll Call No. 049, YEA on Roll Call
No. 050, and NAY on Roll Call No. 051.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. VICKY HARTZLER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, on
Wednesday, January 23, 2019, I was unable
to vote. Had I been present, I would have
voted as follows: on roll call No. 46: NAY; on
roll call No. 47: NAY; on roll call No. 48: YEA;
and on roll call No. 49: NAY.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF DR. REV.
EVERETT B. KELLEY’S RETIRE-
MENT
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize Dr. Rev. Everett B. Kelley
as he retires after 31 years as a pastor.
Everett, a native of Goodwater, Alabama,
rededicated his life to Christ and united with
the Greater New Hope Baptist Church in
Sylacauga, Alabama in 1982. In 1985, he ac-
cepted his call into the ministry and preached
his first sermon in December. He was called
to pastor at St. Mary Missionary Baptist
Church in August 1987.
Rev. Kelley enlisted in the United States
Army and served three years. He established
B & K Cabinets and K & G Cabinets in Ox-
ford, Alabama. He is a retired employee of An-
niston Army Depot. From 2002 to 2016, he
served as President of American Federation of
Government Employees (AFGE) Local 1945
and Chaplain for Alabama State Councils of
AFGE. From 2011 to 2018, he served as Na-
tional Vice President of AFGE District 5 and in
August of 2018, was elected as National Sec-
retary Treasurer of AFGE.
He is married to Elizabeth Kelley and has
been blessed with four children and six grand-
children. His education includes: Hannah J.
Mallory Elementary, Sylacauga High School,
Central Alabama Community College, Selma
University, Birmingham Baptist Bible College
and Rushing Spring School of Theology where
he has earned his Bachelor and Master’s of
Theology. In 2014, he earned a Doctorate of
Philosophy in Christian Counseling, and an
honorary Doctorate of Divinity at St. Thomas
Christian University.
Rev. Kelley is the former instructor at Rush-
ing Springs School of Theology and former in-
structor of Christian Education and Evan-
gelism at the Birmingham Estonian Bible Col-
lege at the Anniston campus. In July 2005, he
was certified in the E. K. Bailey Expository
Preaching Conference and in 2011, received
his advanced certification in the E. K. Bailey
Exposition Preaching Conference.
He serves on the board for Habitat for Hu-
manity CBTU, and a member of the Labor
Roundtable. He has served on Supervisory
Committee of the AOD Federal Credit Union
board, Calhoun County Economic Develop-
ment Council, former board member of AUSA
and member of East Alabama Planning Board.
He is President and founder of ‘‘Cruzin for
Jesus Motor Club, Inc.’’, and President/CEO of
E. B. Kelley Ministries, LLC, Kelley’s Photog-
raphy, and President of Project Hope Out-
reach Ministries INC.
He’s a 2014 graduate of Leadership Ala-
bama, recipient of the 2014 Lifetime Achieve-
ment Award, 2016 and 2017 NAACP Image
Award, 2017 graduate of NLLI and 2019 NAN
‘‘Labor Leader of the Year Award’’. He is the
author of 31 Day Walk by Faith to Better
Health.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating my friend Everett on his retirement
and thanking him for his service to the Lord.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KATIE PORTER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Ms. PORTER. Madam Speaker, I was un-
able to be present for votes on Tuesday, Jan-
uary 22, 2019. Had I been present, I would
have voted as follows: Roll Call Vote Number
44 (Passage of H.R. 676, the NATO Support
Act): YES; and Roll Call Vote Number 45
(Passage of H.R. 328, the Hack Your State
Department Act): YES.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. VICKY HARTZLER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, January 28, 2019
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, on
Tuesday, January 22, 2019, I was unable to
vote. Had I been present, I would have voted
as follows: on roll call no. 44: YEA, and on roll
call no. 45: YEA.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, Jan-
uary 29, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JANUARY 30
1:30 p.m.
Conferees
Meeting of conferees on H.J. Res. 31,
making further continuing appropria-
tions for the Department of Homeland
Security for fiscal year 2019.
HC–5
FEBRUARY 5
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the outlook
for energy and minerals markets in the
116th Congress.
SD–366
FEBRUARY 6
10 a.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Organizational business meeting to con-
sider committee rules and an original
resolution authorizing expenditures by
the committee during the 116th Con-
gress.
SD–342
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28JA8.012 E28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D84
Monday, January 28, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S687–S724
Measures Introduced: Seventeen bills and two res-
olutions were introduced, as follows: S. 232–248,
and S. Res. 32–33. Page S698
Measures Considered:
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act—Agreement: Senate resumed consider-
ation of the motion to proceed to consideration of S.
1, to make improvements to certain defense and se-
curity assistance provisions and to authorize the ap-
propriation of funds to Israel, to reauthorize the
United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syr-
ian people. Pages S688–96
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
Pursuant to the order of January 25, 2019, the
motion to proceed to the motion to reconsider the
vote by which cloture was not invoked on January
8, 2019, was agreed to. Page S693
Pursuant to the order of January 25, 2019, the
motion to reconsider the vote by which cloture was
not invoked on January 8, 2019, was agreed to.
Page S693
By 74 yeas to 19 nays (Vote No. 11), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate upon reconsideration
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
motion to proceed to consideration of the bill.
Page S693
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that all time during adjournment, recess,
morning business, and Leader remarks count post-
cloture on the motion to proceed to consideration of
the bill. Page S724
Message From the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the issuance of an Executive Order with respect to
Venezuela that takes additional steps with respect to
the national emergency declared in Executive Order
13692 on March 8, 2015; which was referred to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
(PM–2) Page S697
Messages from the House: Page S698
Measures Placed on the Calendar:
Pages S687, S698
Additional Cosponsors: Page S699
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S699–S701
Additional Statements: Page S697
Amendments Submitted: Pages S702–S724
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—11) Page S693
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 6:52 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, Jan-
uary 29, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S724.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No Committee Meetings were held.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28JA9.REC D28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D85
January 28, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 26 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 804–829, and 6 resolutions, H. Res.
79–84, were introduced. Pages H1241–43
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H1244–45
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Kildee to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H1219
Recess: The House recessed at 12:06 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H1220
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by a yea-and-nay vote of 234 yeas to
170 nays with two answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No.
54. Pages H1220, H1233–34
Recess: The House recessed at 2:06 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4:47 p.m. Page H1220
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Promoting Transparent Standards for Corporate
Insiders Act: H.R. 624, to require the Securities and
Exchange Commission to carry out a study of Rule
10b5–1 trading plans, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of
413 yeas to 3 nays, Roll No. 52;
Pages H1221–23, H1232
Fight Illicit Networks and Detect Trafficking
Act: H.R. 502, to require the Comptroller General
of the United States to carry out a study on how vir-
tual currencies and online marketplaces are used to
buy, sell, or facilitate the financing of goods or serv-
ices associated with sex trafficking or drug traf-
ficking, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 412 yeas to 3
nays, Roll No. 53; and Pages H1223–27, H1232–33
Financial Technology Protection Act: H.R. 56,
amended, to establish an Independent Financial
Technology Task Force to Combat Terrorism and Il-
licit Financing, to provide rewards for information
leading to convictions related to terrorist use of dig-
ital currencies, to establish a Fintech Leadership in
Innovation and Financial Intelligence Program to en-
courage the development of tools and programs to
combat terrorist and illicit use of digital currencies.
Pages H1227–31
Recess: The House recessed at 6:10 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H1231
Committee Ranking: The House agreed to H. Res.
80, ranking certain Members of a certain standing
committees of the House of Representatives.
Page H1234
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified the Congress of taking
additional steps with regard to the National Emer-
gency with Respect to Venezuela. Referred to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs and ordered to be
printed (H. Doc. 116–8). Page H1221
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H1221.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes
developed during the proceedings of today and ap-
pear on pages H1232, H1232–33, and H1233–34.
There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 8:30 p.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D1317)
H.R. 1162, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to carry out a pilot program to provide access
to magnetic EEG/EKG-guided resonance therapy to
veterans. Signed on December 21, 2018. (Public Law
115–339)
H.R. 1210, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 122 W. Goodwin
Street, Pleasanton, Texas, as the ‘‘Pleasanton Vet-
erans Post Office’’. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–340)
H.R. 1211, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 400 N. Main Street,
Encinal, Texas, as the ‘‘Encinal Veterans Post Of-
fice’’. Signed on December 21, 2018. Signed on De-
cember 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–341)
H.R. 1222, to amend the Public Health Service
Act to coordinate Federal congenital heart disease re-
search efforts and to improve public education and
awareness of congenital heart disease. Signed on De-
cember 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–342)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28JA9.REC D28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D86 January 28, 2019
H.R. 1235, to require the Secretary of the Treas-
ury to mint coins in recognition of the 60th Anni-
versary of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of
Fame. Signed on December 21, 2018. (Public Law
115–343)
H.R. 1318, to support States in their work to save
and sustain the health of mothers during pregnancy,
childbirth, and in the postpartum period, to elimi-
nate disparities in maternal health outcomes for
pregnancy-related and pregnancy-associated deaths,
to identify solutions to improve health care quality
and health outcomes for mothers. Signed on Decem-
ber 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–344)
H.R. 1733, to direct the Secretary of Energy to
review and update a report on the energy and envi-
ronmental benefits of the re-refining of used lubri-
cating oil. Signed on December 21, 2018. (Public
Law 115–345)
H.R. 1850, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 907 Fourth Avenue
in Lake Odessa, Michigan, as the ‘‘Donna Sauers
Besko Post Office’’. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–346)
H.R. 3184, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 180 McCormick
Road in Charlottesville, Virginia, as the ‘‘Captain
Humayun Khan Post Office’’. Signed on December
21, 2018. (Public Law 115–347)
H.R. 3342, to impose sanctions with respect to
foreign persons that are responsible for using civil-
ians as human shields. Signed on December 21,
2018. (Public Law 115–348)
H.R. 3383, to designate the flood control project
in Sedgwick County, Kansas, commonly known as
the Wichita-Valley Center Flood Control Project, as
the ‘‘M.S. ‘Mitch’ Mitchell Floodway’’. Signed on
December 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–349)
H.R. 4032, to confirm undocumented Federal
rights-of-way or easements on the Gila River Indian
Reservation, clarify the northern boundary of the
Gila River Indian Community’s Reservation, to take
certain land located in Maricopa County and Pinal
County, Arizona, into trust for the benefit of the
Gila River Indian Community. Signed on December
21, 2018. (Public Law 115–350)
H.R. 4326, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 200 West North
Street in Normal, Illinois, as the ‘‘Sgt. Josh Rodgers
Post Office’’. Signed on December 21, 2018. (Public
Law 115–351)
H.R. 4431, to amend title 5, United States Code,
to provide for interest payments by agencies in the
case of administrative error in processing certain an-
nuity deposits for prior military service or certain
volunteer service. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–352)
H.R. 4819, to promote inclusive economic growth
through conservation and biodiversity programs that
facilitate transboundary cooperation, improve natural
resource management, and build local capacity to
protect and preserve threatened wildlife species in
the greater Okavango River Basin of southern Africa.
Signed on December 21, 2018. (Public Law
115–353)
H.R. 5205, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 701 6th Street in
Hawthorne, Nevada, as the ‘‘Sergeant Kenneth Eric
Bostic Post Office’’. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–354)
H.R. 5395, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 116 Main Street in
Dansville, New York, as the ‘‘Staff Sergeant Alexan-
dria Gleason-Morrow Post Office Building’’. Signed
on December 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–355)
H.R. 5412, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 25 2nd Avenue in
Brentwood, New York, as the ‘‘Army Specialist Jose
L. Ruiz Post Office Building’’. Signed on December
21, 2018. (Public Law 115–356)
H.R. 5475, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 108 North Macon
Street in Bevier, Missouri, as the ‘‘SO2 Navy SEAL
Adam Olin Smith Post Office’’. Signed on December
21, 2018. (Public Law 115–357)
H.R. 5787, to amend the Coastal Barrier Re-
sources Act to give effect to more accurate maps of
units of the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Re-
sources System that were produced by digital map-
ping of such units. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–358)
H.R. 5791, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 9609 South Univer-
sity Boulevard in Highlands Ranch, Colorado, as the
‘‘Deputy Sheriff Zackari Spurlock Parrish, III, Post
Office Building’’. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–359)
H.R. 5792, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 90 North 4th Avenue
in Brighton, Colorado, as the ‘‘Detective Heath
McDonald Gumm Post Office’’. Signed on December
21, 2018. (Public Law 115–360)
H.R. 5923, to direct the Secretary of Agriculture
to exchange certain public lands in Ouachita Na-
tional Forest. Signed on December 21, 2018. (Public
Law 115–361)
H.R. 6020, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 325 South Michigan
Avenue in Howell, Michigan, as the ‘‘Sergeant Don-
ald Burgett Post Office Building’’. Signed on De-
cember 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–362)
H.R. 6059, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 51 Willow Street in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28JA9.REC D28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D87
January 28, 2019
Lynn, Massachusetts, as the ‘‘Thomas P. Costin, Jr.
Post Office Building’’. Signed on December 21,
2018. (Public Law 115–363)
H.R. 6160, to amend title 5, United States Code,
to clarify the sources of the authority to issue regula-
tions regarding certifications and other criteria appli-
cable to legislative branch employees under Wound-
ed Warriors Federal Leave Act. Signed on December
21, 2018. (Public Law 115–364)
H.R. 6167, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 5707 South Cass Av-
enue in Westmont, Illinois, as the ‘‘James William
Robinson Jr. Memorial Post Office Building’’.
Signed on December 21, 2018. (Public Law
115–365)
H.R. 6216, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 3025 Woodgate Road
in Montrose, Colorado, as the ‘‘Sergeant David
Kinterknecht Post Office’’. Signed on December 21,
2018. (Public Law 115–366)
H.R. 6217, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 241 N 4th Street in
Grand Junction, Colorado, as the ‘‘Deputy Sheriff
Derek Geer Post Office Building’’. Signed on De-
cember 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–367)
H.R. 6227, to provide for a coordinated Federal
program to accelerate quantum research and develop-
ment for the economic and national security of the
United States. Signed on December 21, 2018. (Pub-
lic Law 115–368)
H.R. 6335, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 322 Main Street in
Oakville, Connecticut, as the ‘‘Oakville Veterans Me-
morial Post Office’’. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–369)
H.R. 6347, to adjust the real estate appraisal
thresholds under the 7(a) program to bring them
into line with the thresholds used by the Federal
banking regulators. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–370)
H.R. 6348, to adjust the real estate appraisal
thresholds under the section 504 program to bring
them into line with the thresholds used by the Fed-
eral banking regulators. Signed on December 21,
2018. (Public Law 115–371)
H.R. 6400, to require the Secretary of Homeland
Security to conduct a threat and operational analysis
of ports of entry. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–372)
H.R. 6405, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 2801 Mitchell Road
in Ceres, California, as the ‘‘Lance Corporal Juana
Navarro Arellano Post Office Building’’. Signed on
December 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–373)
H.R. 6428, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 332 Ramapo Valley
Road in Oakland, New Jersey, as the ‘‘Frank Leone
Post Office’’. Signed on December 21, 2018. (Public
Law 115–374)
H.R. 6513, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1110 West Market
Street in Athens, Alabama, as the ‘‘Judge James E.
Horton, Jr. Post Office Building’’. Signed on De-
cember 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–375)
H.R. 6591, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 501 South Kirkman
Road in Orlando, Florida, as the ‘‘Napoleon ‘Nap’
Ford Post Office Building’’. Signed on December 21,
2018. (Public Law 115–376)
H.R. 6615, to reauthorize the Traumatic Brain
Injury program. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–377)
H.R. 6621, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 530 East Main Street
in Johnson City, Tennessee, as the ‘‘Major Homer L.
Pease Post Office’’. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–378)
H.R. 6628, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 4301 Northeast 4th
Street in Renton, Washington, as the ‘‘James Mar-
shall ‘Jimi’ Hendrix Post Office Building’’. Signed
on December 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–379)
H.R. 6655, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 44160 State Highway
299 East Suite 1 in McArthur, California, as the
‘‘Janet Lucille Oilar Post Office’’. Signed on Decem-
ber 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–380)
H.R. 6780, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 7521 Paula Drive in
Tampa, Florida, as the ‘‘Major Andreas O’Keeffe
Post Office Building’’. Signed on December 21,
2018. (Public Law 115–381)
H.R. 6831, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 35 West Main Street
in Frisco, Colorado, as the ‘‘Patrick E. Mahany, Jr.,
Post Office Building’’. Signed on December 21,
2018. (Public Law 115–382)
H.R. 6893, to amend the Overtime Pay for Pro-
tective Services Act of 2016 to extend the Secret
Service overtime pay exception through 2020. Signed
on December 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–383)
H.R. 6930, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 10 Miller Street in
Plattsburgh, New York, as the ‘‘Ross Bouyea Post
Office Building’’. Signed on December 21, 2018.
(Public Law 115–384)
H.R. 6964, to reauthorize and improve the Juve-
nile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of
1974. Signed on December 21, 2018. (Public Law
115–385)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28JA9.REC D28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D88 January 28, 2019
H.R. 7120, to amend the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 to extend through 2023 the au-
thority of the Federal Election Commission to im-
pose civil money penalties on the basis of a schedule
of penalties established and published by the Com-
mission. Signed on December 21, 2018. (Public Law
115–386)
H.R. 7213, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to establish the Countering Weapons of
Mass Destruction Office. Signed on December 21,
2018. (Public Law 115–387)
H.R. 7230, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 226 West Main
Street in Lake City, South Carolina, as the ‘‘Post-
master Frazier B. Baker Post Office’’. Signed on De-
cember 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–388)
H.R. 7243, to amend Public Law 115–217 to
change the address of the postal facility designated
by such Public Law in honor of Sergeant First Class
Alwyn Crendall Cashe. Signed on December 21,
2018. (Public Law 115–389)
H.R. 7327, to require the Secretary of Homeland
Security to establish a security vulnerability disclo-
sure policy, to establish a bug bounty program for
the Department of Homeland Security, to amend
title 41, United States Code, to provide for Federal
acquisition supply chain security. Signed on Decem-
ber 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–390)
S. 756, to reauthorize and amend the Marine De-
bris Act to promote international action to reduce
marine debris. Signed on December 21, 2018. (Pub-
lic Law 115–391)
S. 1311, to provide assistance in abolishing
human trafficking in the United States. Signed on
December 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–392)
S. 1312, to prioritize the fight against human
trafficking in the United States. Signed on December
21, 2018. (Public Law 115–393)
S. 2511, to require the Under Secretary of Com-
merce for Oceans and Atmosphere to carry out a
program on coordinating the assessment and acquisi-
tion by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration of unmanned maritime systems, to
make available to the public data collected by the
Administration using such systems. Signed on De-
cember 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–394)
S. 3170, to amend title 18, United States Code,
to make certain changes to the reporting require-
ment of certain service providers regarding child sex-
ual exploitation visual depictions. Signed on Decem-
ber 21, 2018. (Public Law 115–395)
S. 3628, to reauthorize the National Flood Insur-
ance Program. Signed on December 21, 2018. (Pub-
lic Law 115–396)
S. 3749, to amend the Congressional Account-
ability Act of 1995 to reform the procedures pro-
vided under such Act for the initiation, review, and
resolution of claims alleging that employing offices
of the legislative branch have violated the rights and
protections provided to their employees under such
Act, including protections against sexual harassment.
Signed on December 21, 2018. (Public Law
115–397)
H.R. 767, to designate the Federal building and
United States courthouse located at 180 West Main
Street in Abingdon, Virginia, as the ‘‘H. Emory
Widener, Jr., Federal Building and United States
Courthouse’’. Signed on December 31, 2018. (Public
Law 115–398)
H.R. 2606, to amend the Act of August 4, 1947
(commonly known as the Stigler Act), with respect
to restrictions applicable to Indians of the Five Civ-
ilized Tribes of Oklahoma. Signed on December 31,
2018. (Public Law 115–399)
H.R. 4227, to require the Secretary of Homeland
Security to examine what actions the Department of
Homeland Security is undertaking to combat the
threat of vehicular terrorism. Signed on December
31, 2018. (Public Law 115–400)
H.R. 5075, to encourage, enhance, and integrate
Ashanti Alert plans throughout the United States.
Signed on December 31, 2018. (Public Law
115–401)
H.R. 5509, to direct the National Science Foun-
dation to provide grants for research about STEM
education approaches and the STEM-related work-
force. Signed on December 31, 2018. (Public Law
115–402)
S. 7, to amend title 51, United States Code, to
extend the authority of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration to enter into leases of non-ex-
cess property of the Administration. Signed on De-
cember 31, 2018. (Public Law 115–403)
S. 943, to direct the Secretary of the Interior to
conduct an accurate comprehensive student count for
the purposes of calculating formula allocations for
programs under the Johnson-O’Malley Act. Signed
on December 31, 2018. (Public Law 115–404)
S. 1520, to expand recreational fishing opportuni-
ties through enhanced marine fishery conservation
and management. Signed on December 31, 2018.
(Public Law 115–405)
S. 2076, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to authorize the expansion of activities related to
Alzheimer’s disease, cognitive decline, and brain
health under the Alzheimer’s Disease and Healthy
Aging Program. Signed on December 31, 2018.
(Public Law 115–406)
S. 2248, to amend title 38, United States Code,
to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to pro-
vide certain burial benefits for spouses and children
of veterans who are buried in tribal cemeteries.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28JA9.REC D28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D89
January 28, 2019
Signed on December 31, 2018. (Public Law
115–407)
S. 2278, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to provide grants to improve health care in rural
areas. Signed on December 31, 2018. (Public Law
115–408)
S. 2736, to develop a long-term strategic vision
and a comprehensive, multifaceted, and principled
United States policy for the Indo-Pacific region.
Signed on December 31, 2018. (Public Law
115–409)
S. 3530, to reauthorize the Museum and Library
Services Act. Signed on December 31, 2018. (Public
Law 115–410)
H.R. 1660, to direct the Administrator of the
United States Agency for International Development
to submit to Congress a report on the development
and use of global health innovations in the pro-
grams, projects, and activities of the Agency. Signed
on January 3, 2019. (Public Law 115–411)
H.R. 3460, to designate the United States court-
house located at 323 East Chapel Hill Street in Dur-
ham, North Carolina, as the ‘‘John Hervey Wheeler
United States Courthouse’’. Signed on January 3,
2019. (Public Law 115–412)
H.R. 6287, to provide competitive grants for the
operation, security, and maintenance of certain me-
morials to victims of the terrorist attacks of Sep-
tember 11, 2001. Signed on January 3, 2019. (Pub-
lic Law 115–413)
S. 2276, to require agencies to submit reports on
outstanding recommendations in the annual budget
justification submitted to Congress. Signed on Janu-
ary 3, 2019. (Public Law 115–414)
S. 2652, to award a Congressional Gold Medal to
Stephen Michael Gleason. Signed on January 3,
2019. (Public Law 115–415)
S. 2679, to provide access to and manage the dis-
tribution of excess or surplus property to veteran-
owned small businesses. Signed on January 3, 2019.
(Public Law 115–416)
S. 2765, to amend the Investment Advisers Act of
1940 to exempt investment advisers who solely ad-
vise certain rural business investment companies.
Signed on January 3, 2019. (Public Law 115–417)
S. 2896, to require disclosure by lobbyists of con-
victions for bribery, extortion, embezzlement, illegal
kickbacks, tax evasion, fraud, conflicts of interest,
making false statements, perjury, or money laun-
dering. Signed on January 3, 2019. (Public Law
115–418)
S. 3031, to amend chapter 5 of title 40, United
States Code, to improve the management of Federal
personal property. Signed on January 3, 2019. (Pub-
lic Law 115–419)
S. 3367, to amend certain transportation-related
reporting requirements to improve congressional
oversight, reduce reporting burdens, and promote
transparency. Signed on January 3, 2019. (Public
Law 115–420)
S. 3444, to designate the community-based out-
patient clinic of the Department of Veterans Affairs
in Lake Charles, Louisiana, as the ‘‘Douglas Fournet
Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic’’. Signed on
January 3, 2019. (Public Law 115–421)
S. 3777, to require the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to establish a tiger team dedicated to addressing
the difficulties encountered by the Department of
Veterans Affairs in carrying out section 3313 of title
38, United States Code, after the enactment of sec-
tions 107 and 501 of the Harry W. Colmery Vet-
erans Educational Assistance Act of 2017. Signed on
January 3, 2019. (Public Law 115–422)
S. 2200, to reauthorize the National Integrated
Drought Information System. Signed on January 7,
2019. (Public Law 115–423)
S. 2961, to reauthorize subtitle A of the Victims
of Child Abuse Act of 1990. Signed on January 7,
2019. (Public Law 115–424)
H.R. 2200, to reauthorize the Trafficking Victims
Protection Act of 2000. Signed on January 8, 2019.
(Public Law 115–425)
S. 3191, to provide for the expeditious disclosure
of records related to civil rights cold cases. Signed
on January 8, 2019. (Public Law 115–426)
S. 1862, to amend the Trafficking Victims Protec-
tion Act of 2000 to modify the criteria for deter-
mining whether countries are meeting the minimum
standards for the elimination of human trafficking.
Signed on January 9, 2019. (Public Law 115–427)
S. 3247, to improve programs and activities relat-
ing to women’s entrepreneurship and economic em-
powerment that are carried out by the United States
Agency for International Development. Signed on
January 9, 2019. (Public Law 115–428)
H.R. 4689, to authorize early repayment of obli-
gations to the Bureau of Reclamation within the
Northport Irrigation District in the State of Ne-
braska. Signed on January 10, 2019. (Public Law
115–429)
H.R. 5636, to designate additions to the Flatside
Wilderness on the Ouachita National Forest. Signed
on January 10, 2019. (Public Law 115–430)
H.R. 6602, to reauthorize the New Jersey Coastal
Heritage Trail Route. Signed on January 10, 2019.
(Public Law 115–431)
S. 3456, to redesignate Hobe Sound National
Wildlife Refuge as the Nathaniel P. Reed Hobe
Sound National Wildlife Refuge. Signed on January
10, 2019. (Public Law 115–432)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28JA9.REC D28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D90 January 28, 2019
S. 3661, to provide for a program of the Depart-
ment of Defense to commemorate the 75th anniver-
sary of World War II. Signed on January 10, 2019.
(Public Law 115–433)
H.R. 672, to require continued and enhanced an-
nual reporting to Congress in the Annual Report on
International Religious Freedom on anti-Semitic in-
cidents in Europe, the safety and security of Euro-
pean Jewish communities, and the efforts of the
United States to partner with European govern-
ments, the European Union, and civil society groups,
to combat anti-Semitism. Signed on January 14,
2019. (Public Law 115–434)
H.R. 4174, to amend titles 5 and 44, United
States Code, to require Federal evaluation activities,
improve Federal data management. Signed on Janu-
ary 14, 2019. (Public Law 115–435)
H.R. 7279, to amend the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act to provide for an integrated planning
process, to promote green infrastructure. Signed on
January 14, 2019. (Public Law 115–436)
H.R. 7318, to amend the Federal Assets Sale and
Transfer Act of 2016 to ensure that the Public
Buildings Reform Board has adequate time to carry
out the responsibilities of the Board. Signed on Jan-
uary 14, 2019. (Public Law 115–437)
H.R. 7319, to amend the Federal Assets Sale and
Transfer Act of 2016 to provide flexibility with re-
spect to the leaseback of certain Federal real prop-
erty. Signed on January 14, 2019. (Public Law
115–438)
S. 512, to modernize the regulation of nuclear en-
ergy. Signed on January 14, 2019. (Public Law
115–439)
S. 1023, to reauthorize the Tropical Forest Con-
servation Act of 1998 through fiscal year 2021.
Signed on January 14, 2019. (Public Law 115–440)
S. 1158, to help prevent acts of genocide and
other atrocity crimes, which threaten national and
international security, by enhancing United States
Government capacities to prevent, mitigate, and re-
spond to such crises. Signed on January 14, 2019.
(Public Law 115–441)
S. 1580, to enhance the transparency, improve the
coordination, and intensify the impact of assistance
to support access to primary and secondary education
for displaced children and persons, including women
and girls. Signed on January 14, 2019. (Public Law
115–442)
Committee Meetings FOR TUESDAY,
JANUARY 29, 2019
(Committee Meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
China and Russia, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, to hold hearings to
examine Department of Defense enterprise-wide cyberse-
curity policies and architecture, 2:30 p.m., SR–222.
Committee on the Budget: to hold hearings to examine the
Congressional Budget Office’s budget and economic out-
look, focusing on fiscal years 2019–2029, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–608.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine the nomination of Nicole R. Nason, of
New York, to be Administrator of the Federal Highway
Administration, Department of Transportation, 10 a.m.,
SD–406.
Committee on Finance: to hold hearings to examine drug
pricing in America, 10:15 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: to
hold hearings to examine access to care, focusing on
health centers and providers in underserved communities,
10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Indian Affairs: organizational business
meeting to consider committee rules and an original reso-
lution authorizing expenditures by the committee during
the 116th Congress; to be immediately followed by a
business meeting to consider S. 46, to repeal the Klamath
Tribe Judgment Fund Act, S. 50, to authorize the Sec-
retary of the Interior to assess sanitation and safety condi-
tions at Bureau of Indian Affairs facilities that were con-
structed to provide affected Columbia River Treaty tribes
access to traditional fishing grounds and expend funds on
construction of facilities and structures to improve those
conditions, S. 51, to extend the Federal recognition to the
Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians of Montana, S.
199, to provide for the transfer of certain Federal land in
the State of Minnesota for the benefit of the Leech Lake
Band of Ojibwe, S. 207, to enhance tribal road safety, S.
209, to amend the Indian Self-Determination and Edu-
cation Assistance Act to provide further self-governance
by Indian Tribes, S. 210, to amend the Tribal Law and
Order Act of 2010 and the Indian Law Enforcement Re-
form Act to provide for advancement in public safety
services to Indian communities, S. 211, to amend the
Victims of Crime Act of 1984 to secure urgent resources
vital to Indian victims of crime, S. 212, to amend the
Native American Business Development, Trade Pro-
motion, and Tourism Act of 2000, the Buy Indian Act,
and the Native American Programs Act of 1974 to pro-
vide industry and economic development opportunities to
Indian communities, S. 216, to provide for equitable
compensation to the Spokane Tribe of Indians of the Spo-
kane Reservation for the use of tribal land for the produc-
tion of hydropower by the Grand Coulee Dam, S. 224,
to provide for the conveyance of certain property to the
Tanana Tribal Council located in Tanana, Alaska, and to
the Bristol Bay Area Health Corporation located in
Dillingham, Alaska, and S. 226, to clarify the rights of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28JA9.REC D28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D91
January 28, 2019
Indians and Indian Tribes on Indian lands under the Na-
tional Labor Relations Act, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
the nominations of William Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to
be Attorney General, and Donald W. Washington, of
Texas, to be Director of the United States Marshals Serv-
ice, both of the Department of Justice, Bridget S. Bade,
of Arizona, and Eric D. Miller, of Washington, both to
be a United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit,
Paul B. Matey, of New Jersey, to be United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Third Circuit, Eric E. Murphy, of
Ohio, and Chad A. Readler, of Ohio, both to be a United
States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, Allison Jones
Rushing, of North Carolina, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Fourth Circuit, Rossie David Alston, Jr., to
be United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Virginia, Roy Kalman Altman, Rodolfo Armando Ruiz
II, and Rodney Smith, each to be a United States District
Judge for the Southern District of Florida, Raul M. Arias-
Marxuach, to be United States District Judge for the Dis-
trict of Puerto Rico, Thomas P. Barber, and Wendy Wil-
liams Berger, both to be a United States District Judge
for the Middle District of Florida, J. Campbell Barker,
and Michael J. Truncale, both to be a United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, Pamela A.
Barker, to be United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Ohio, Kenneth D. Bell, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of North
Carolina, Jean-Paul Boulee, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, Holly A.
Brady, and Damon Ray Leichty, both to be a United
States District Judge for the Northern District of Indiana,
Andrew Lynn Brasher, to be United States District Judge
for the Middle District of Alabama, Brian C. Buescher,
to be United States District Judge for the District of Ne-
braska, James David Cain, Jr., to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Western District of Louisiana, Stephen
R. Clark, Sr., to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Missouri, Clifton L. Corker, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Tennessee, Daniel Desmond Domenico, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Colorado, Karin
J. Immergut, to be United States District Judge for the
District of Oregon, Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas,
Corey Landon Maze, to be United States District Judge
for the Northern District of Alabama, David Steven Mo-
rales, to be United States District Judge for the Southern
District of Texas, Sarah Daggett Morrison, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio,
Carl J. Nichols, to be United States District Judge for
the District of Columbia, Howard C. Nielson, Jr., to be
United States District Judge for the District of Utah, J.
Nicholas Ranjan, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Pennsylvania, Wendy Vitter, to
be United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Louisiana, T. Kent Wetherell II, and Allen Cothrel
Winsor, both to be a United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Florida, Joshua Wolson, and John
Milton Younge, both to be a United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Patrick R.
Wyrick, to be United States District Judge for the West-
ern District of Oklahoma, M. Miller Baker, of Louisiana,
and Timothy M. Reif, of the District of Columbia, both
to be a Judge of the United States Court of International
Trade, and Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland, and Ryan
T. Holte, of Ohio, both to be a Judge of the United
States Court of Federal Claims, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold hearings to exam-
ine worldwide threats, 9:30 a.m., SH–216.
Full Committee, to hold closed hearings to examine
worldwide threats, 1 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Armed Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Department of Defense’s Support to the South-
ern Border’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, Full Committee, organizational
meeting, 9:30 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Congressional
Budget Office’s Budget and Economic Outlook’’, 10 a.m.,
1334 Longworth.
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee, orga-
nizational meeting, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, organiza-
tional meeting, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing on
H.R. 1, the ‘‘For the People Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2141
Rayburn.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee, or-
ganizational meeting, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Ac-
tions of Drug Companies in Raising Prescription Drug
Prices’’, 11 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
790, the ‘‘Federal Civilian Workforce Pay Raise Fairness
Act of 2019’’, 3 p.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Protecting Americans with Pre-Existing Condi-
tions’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28JA9.REC D28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D92 January 28, 2019
Next Meeting Of The SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, January 29
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the motion to proceed to consideration of S. 1,
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle East Act,
post-cloture.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting Of The HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, January 29
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of measures under
suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E98
Carson, André, Ind., E97
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E97
Comer, James, Ky., E97
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E98
DesJarlais, Scott, Tenn., E97
Foxx, Virginia, N.C., E99
Gibbs, Bob, Ohio, E100
Hartzler, Vicky, Mo., E99, E100, E100
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E98
Kirkpatrick, Ann, Ariz., E99
Lesko, Debbie, Ariz., E97
Porter, Katie, Calif., E100
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E99, E100
Roy, Chip, Tex., E98
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Jan 29, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D28JA9.REC D28JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
