Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H2749
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019 No. 48
Senate
The Senate was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Tuesday, March 19, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.
House of Representatives
MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. RASKIN).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
March 18, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JAMIE
RASKIN to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Gracious and Merciful God, we give
You thanks for giving us another day.
In this Chamber, where the people’s
House gathers, we pause to offer You
gratitude for the gift of this good land
on which we live, and for this great Na-
tion which You have inspired in devel-
oping over so many years. Continue to
inspire the American people, that
through the difficulties of these days,
we might keep liberty and justice alive
in our Nation, and in the world.
Bless all the Members who are home
meeting with constituents or traveling
to gather information and knowledge
about the issues that are pertinent to
their work in committees. May their
presence among others be an inspira-
tion for all considering public service.
May all that is done this week be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 2(a) of House Resolution
208, the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings is approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, March 14, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
March 14, 2019, at 3:02 p.m.:
That the Senate agreed to S.J. Res. 7.
That the Senate agreed to without amend-
ment H.J. Res. 46.
With best wishes, I am.
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 4 of rule I, the following
enrolled joint resolution was signed by
the Speaker on Thursday, March 14,
2019:
H.J. Res. 46, Relating to a national
emergency declared by the President
on February 15, 2019.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, March 15, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, I have the honor to transmit a sealed
envelope received from the White House on
March 15, 2019 at 4:42 p.m., said to contain a
message from the President returning with-
out his approval H.J. Res. 46, a Joint Resolu-
tion relating to a national emergency de-
clared by the President on February 15, 2019.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON,
Clerk of the House.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:36 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18MR7.000 H18MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2750 March 18, 2019
RELATING TO A NATIONAL EMER-
GENCY DECLARED BY THE
PRESIDENT ON FEBRUARY 15,
2019—VETO MESSAGE FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–22)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following veto mes-
sage from the President of the United
States:
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning herewith without my
approval H.J. Res. 46, a joint resolution
that would terminate the national
emergency I declared regarding the cri-
sis on our southern border in Procla-
mation 9844 on February 15, 2019, pursu-
ant to the National Emergencies Act.
As demonstrated by recent statistics
published by U.S. Customs and Border
Protection (CBP) and explained in tes-
timony given by the Secretary of
Homeland Security on March 6, 2019,
before the House Committee on Home-
land Security, our porous southern bor-
der continues to be a magnet for law-
less migration and criminals and has
created a border security and humani-
tarian crisis that endangers every
American. Last month alone, CBP ap-
prehended more than 76,000 aliens im-
properly attempting to enter the
United States along the southern bor-
der—the largest monthly total in the
last 5 years. In fiscal year 2018, CBP
seized more than 820,000 pounds of
drugs at our southern border, including
24,000 pounds of cocaine, 64,000 pounds
of methamphetamine, 5,000 pounds of
heroin, and 1,800 pounds of fentanyl. In
fiscal years 2017 and 2018, immigration
officers nationwide made 266,000 arrests
of aliens previously charged with or
convicted of crimes. These crimes in-
cluded approximately 100,000 assaults,
30,000 sex crimes, and 4,000 killings. In
other words, aliens coming across our
border have injured or killed thousands
of people, while drugs flowing through
the border have killed hundreds of
thousands of Americans.
The current situation requires our
frontline border enforcement personnel
to vastly increase their humanitarian
efforts. Along their dangerous trek to
the United States, 1 in 3 migrant
women experiences sexual abuse, and 7
in 10 migrants are victims of violence.
Fifty migrants per day are referred for
emergency medical care, and CBP res-
cues 4,300 people per year who are in
danger and distress. The efforts to ad-
dress this humanitarian catastrophe
draw resources away from enforcing
our Nation’s immigration laws and pro-
tecting the border, and place border se-
curity personnel at increased risk.
As troubling as these statistics are,
they reveal only part of the reality.
The situation at the southern border is
rapidly deteriorating because of who is
arriving and how they are arriving. For
many years, the majority of individ-
uals who arrived illegally were single
adults from Mexico. Under our existing
laws, we could detain and quickly re-
move most of these aliens. More re-
cently, however, illegal migrants have
organized into caravans that include
large numbers of families and unac-
companied children from Central
American countries. Last year, for ex-
ample, a record number of families
crossed the border illegally. If the cur-
rent trend holds, the number of fami-
lies crossing in fiscal year 2019 will
greatly surpass last year’s record total.
Criminal organizations are taking ad-
vantage of these large flows of families
and unaccompanied minors to conduct
dangerous illegal activity, including
human trafficking, drug smuggling,
and brutal killings.
Under current laws, court decisions,
and resource constraints, the Govern-
ment cannot detain families or undocu-
mented alien children from Central
American countries in significant num-
bers or quickly deport them. Instead,
the Government is forced to release
many of them into the interior of the
United States, pending lengthy judicial
proceedings. Although many fail ever
to establish any legal right to remain
in this country, they stay nonetheless.
This situation on our border cannot
be described as anything other than a
national emergency, and our Armed
Forces are needed to help confront it.
My highest obligation as President is
to protect the Nation and its people.
Every day, the crisis on our border is
deepening, and with new surges of mi-
grants expected in the coming months,
we are straining our border enforce-
ment personnel and resources to the
breaking point.
H.J. Res. 46 ignores these realities. It
is a dangerous resolution that would
undermine United States sovereignty
and threaten the lives and safety of
countless Americans. It is, therefore,
my duty to return it to the House of
Representatives without my approval.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, March 15, 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The ob-
jections of the President will be spread
at large upon the Journal, and the veto
message and the joint resolution will
be printed as a House document.
Without objection, further consider-
ation of the veto message and the joint
resolution, H.J. Res. 46, is postponed
until the legislative day of March 26,
2019.
There was no objection.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM STAFF
MEMBER, THE HONORABLE MAX-
INE WATERS, MEMBER OF CON-
GRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from Tiayana Walker, Staff
Member, the Honorable MAXINE
WATERS, Member of Congress:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, March 8, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: This is to notify
you formally, pursuant to Rule VIII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, that I
have been served with a subpoena for testi-
mony as a witness in a criminal trial issued
by the United States District Court for the
Northern District of New York.
After consultation with the Office of Gen-
eral Counsel, I will make the determinations
required by Rule VIII.
Sincerely,
TIAYANA WALKER.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
THE JOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to 15 U.S.C.
1024(a), and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, of the following Mem-
bers on the part of the House to the
Joint Economic Committee:
Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Arizona
Mr. LAHOOD, Illinois
Mr. MARCHANT, Texas
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Washington
f
APPOINTMENT OF INDIVIDUALS
TO GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL
ETHICS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to section 104(c)
of House Resolution 6, 116th Congress,
and the order of the House of January
3, 2019, of the following individuals to
serve as the Governing Board of the Of-
fice of Congressional Ethics:
Nominated by the Speaker after con-
sultation with the minority leader:
Mr. David Skaggs, Colorado, Chair
Brigadier General (retired) Belinda
Pinckney, Virginia
Ms. Karan English, Arizona
Mr. Mike Barnes, Maryland, alter-
nate
Nominated by the minority leader
after consultation with the Speaker:
Ms. Allison R. Hayward, Virginia, Co-
Chair
Mr. James M. Eagen, III, Colorado
Mr. Leon Acton Westmoreland, Geor-
gia
Mr. Paul D. Vinovich, District of Co-
lumbia, alternate
f
REAPPOINTMENT OF INDIVIDUAL
TO NATIONAL COMMITTEE ON
VITAL AND HEALTH STATISTICS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s re-
appointment, pursuant to section
306(k) of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 242k), and the order of the
House of January 3, 2019, of the fol-
lowing individual on the part of the
House to the National Committee on
Vital and Health Statistics for a term
of 4 years:
Dr. Vickie M. Mays, Los Angeles,
California
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:20 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18MR7.004 H18MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2751
March 18, 2019
PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE
RULES
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND
COMMERCE FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE,
Washington, DC, March 15, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to Rule
XI, Clause 2(a) of the Rules of the House of
Representatives, I respectfully submit the
rules of the 116th Congress for the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce for publica-
tion in the Congressional Record. The Com-
mittee adopted these rules by a voice vote, a
quorum being present, at our organizational
meeting on Thursday, January 24, 2019.
Sincerely,
FRANK PALLONE, JR.
Chairman.
RULE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a) Rules of the Committee. The Rules of
the House are the rules of the Committee on
Energy and Commerce (the ‘‘Committee’’)
and its subcommittees so far as is applicable.
(b) Rules of the Subcommittees. Each sub-
committee of the Committee is part of the
Committee and is subject to the authority
and direction of the Committee and to its
rules so far as is applicable. Written rules
adopted by the Committee, not inconsistent
with the Rules of the House, shall be binding
on each subcommittee of the Committee.
RULE 2. BUSINESS MEETINGS/MARKUPS
(a) Regular Meeting Days. The Committee
shall meet on the fourth Tuesday of each
month at 10 a.m., for the consideration of
bills, resolutions, and other business, if the
House is in session on that day. If the House
is not in session on that day and the Com-
mittee has not met during such month, the
Committee shall meet at the earliest prac-
ticable opportunity when the House is again
in session. The chairman of the Committee
may, at his or her discretion, cancel, delay,
or defer any meeting required under this sec-
tion, after consultation with the ranking mi-
nority member.
(b) Additional Meetings. The chairman
may call and convene, as he or she considers
necessary, additional meetings of the Com-
mittee for the consideration of any bill or
resolution pending before the Committee or
for the conduct of other Committee business.
The Committee shall meet for such purposes
pursuant to that call of the chairman.
(c) Notice. The date, time, place, and sub-
ject matter of any meeting of the Committee
(other than a hearing) shall be announced at
least 36 hours (exclusive of Saturdays, Sun-
days, and legal holidays except when the
House is in session on such days) in advance
of the commencement of such meeting. In no
event shall such meeting commence earlier
than the third calendar day (excluding Sat-
urdays, Sundays, or legal holidays except
when the House is in session on such a day)
on which members have notice thereof.
(d) Agenda. The agenda for each Com-
mittee meeting, setting out all items of busi-
ness to be considered, shall be provided to
each member of the Committee at least 36
hours in advance of such meeting.
(e) Availability of Texts. No bill, rec-
ommendation, or other matter shall be con-
sidered by the Committee unless the text of
the matter, together with an explanation,
has been available to members of the Com-
mittee for three days (or 24 hours in the case
of a substitute for introduced legislation).
Such explanation shall include a summary of
the major provisions of the legislation, an
explanation of the relationship of the matter
to present law, and a summary of the need
for the legislation.
(f) Waiver. The requirements of sub-
sections (c), (d), and (e) may be waived by a
majority of those present and voting (a ma-
jority being present) of the Committee or by
the chairman with the concurrence of the
ranking member, as the case may be.
RULE 3. HEARINGS
(a) Notice. The date, time, place, and sub-
ject matter of any hearing of the Committee
shall be announced at least one week in ad-
vance of the commencement of such hearing,
unless a determination is made in accord-
ance with clause 2(g)(3) of Rule XI of the
Rules of the House that there is good cause
to begin the hearing sooner.
(b) Memorandum. Each member of the
Committee shall be provided, except in the
case of unusual circumstances, with a memo-
randum at least 48 hours before each hearing
explaining (1) the purpose of the hearing and
(2) the names of any witnesses.
(c) Witnesses. (1) Each witness who is to
appear before the Committee shall file with
the clerk of the Committee, at least two
working days in advance of his or her ap-
pearance, sufficient copies, as determined by
the chairman of the Committee of a written
statement of his or her proposed testimony
to provide to members and staff of the Com-
mittee, the news media, and the general pub-
lic. Each witness shall, to the greatest ex-
tent practicable, also provide a copy of such
written testimony in an electronic format
prescribed by the chairman. Each witness
shall limit his or her oral presentation to a
brief summary of the argument. The chair-
man of the Committee or the presiding mem-
ber may waive the requirements of this para-
graph or any part thereof.
(2) To the greatest extent practicable, the
written testimony of each witness appearing
in a nongovernmental capacity shall include
a curriculum vitae and a disclosure of any
Federal grants or contracts or foreign gov-
ernment contracts and payments related to
the subject matter of the hearing received
during the current calendar year or either of
the two preceding calendar years by the wit-
ness or by an entity represented by the wit-
ness. The disclosure shall include (i) the
amount and source of each Federal grant (or
subgrant thereof) or contract (or subcontract
thereof) related to the subject matter of the
hearing; and (ii) the amount and country of
origin of any payment or contract related to
the subject matter of the hearing originating
with a foreign government.
(d) Questioning. (1) The right to interro-
gate the witnesses before the Committee
shall alternate between majority and minor-
ity members. Each member shall be limited
to 5 minutes in the interrogation of wit-
nesses until such time as each member who
so desires has had an opportunity to question
witnesses. No member shall be recognized for
a second period of 5 minutes to interrogate a
witness until each member of the Committee
present has been recognized once for that
purpose. The chairman shall recognize in
order of appearance members who were not
present when the meeting was called to order
after all members who were present when the
meeting was called to order have been recog-
nized in the order of seniority on the Com-
mittee or relevant subcommittee, as the case
may be.
(2) The chairman, with the concurrence of
the ranking minority member, or the Com-
mittee by motion, may permit an equal num-
ber of majority and minority members to
question a witness for a specified, total pe-
riod that is equal for each side and not
longer than 30 minutes for each side. The
chairman, with the concurrence of the rank-
ing minority member, or the Committee by
motion, may also permit committee staff of
the majority and minority to question a wit-
ness for a specified, total period that is equal
for each side and not longer than 30 minutes
for each side.
(3) Each member may submit to the chair-
man of the Committee additional questions
for the record, to be answered by the wit-
nesses who have appeared. Each member
shall provide a copy of the questions in an
electronic format to the clerk of the Com-
mittee no later than 10 business days fol-
lowing a hearing. The chairman shall trans-
mit all questions received from members of
the Committee to the appropriate witnesses
and include the transmittal letter and the
responses from the witnesses in the hearing
record. After consultation with the ranking
minority member, the chairman is author-
ized to close the hearing record no earlier
than 120 days from the date the questions
were transmitted to the appropriate wit-
nesses.
RULE 4. VICE CHAIRMEN; PRESIDING MEMBER
The chairman shall designate a member of
the majority party to serve as vice chairman
of the Committee, and shall designate a ma-
jority member of each subcommittee to
serve as vice chairman of each sub-
committee. The vice chairman of the Com-
mittee or subcommittee, as the case may be,
shall preside at any meeting or hearing dur-
ing the temporary absence of the chairman.
If the chairman and vice chairman of the
Committee or subcommittee are not present
at any meeting or hearing, the most senior
ranking member of the majority party who
is present shall preside at the meeting or
hearing.
RULE 5. OPEN PROCEEDINGS
Except as provided by the Rules of the
House, each meeting and hearing of the Com-
mittee for the transaction of business, in-
cluding the markup of legislation, and each
hearing, shall be open to the public, includ-
ing to radio, television, and still photog-
raphy coverage, consistent with the provi-
sions of Rule XI of the Rules of the House.
RULE 6. QUORUM
Testimony may be taken and evidence re-
ceived at any hearing at which there are
present not fewer than two members of the
Committee or subcommittee in question. A
majority of the members of the Committee
or subcommittee shall constitute a quorum
for those actions for which the House Rules
require a majority quorum. For the purposes
of taking any other action, one-third of the
members of the Committee shall constitute
a quorum.
RULE 7. OFFICIAL COMMITTEE RECORDS
(a)(1) Documents reflecting the pro-
ceedings of the Committee shall be made
publicly available in electronic form on the
Committee’s website and in the Committee
office for inspection by the public, as pro-
vided in Rule XI, clause 2(e) of the Rules of
the House not more than 24 hours after each
meeting has adjourned, including a record
showing those present at each meeting; and
a record of the vote on any question on
which a record vote is demanded, including a
description of the amendment, motion,
order, or other proposition, the name of each
member voting for and each member voting
against such amendment, motion, order, or
proposition, and the names of those members
of the committee present but not voting.
(2) Record Votes. A record vote may be de-
manded by one-fifth of the members present
or, in the apparent absence of a quorum, by
any one member. No demand for a record
vote shall be made or obtained except for the
purpose of procuring a record vote or in the
apparent absence of a quorum.
(b) Postponement of Votes. In accordance
with clause 2(h)(4) of Rule XI of the Rules of
the House, the chairman of the Committee
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18MR7.006 H18MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2752 March 18, 2019
or a subcommittee, after consultation with
the ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee or subcommittee, may (A) postpone
further proceedings when a record vote is or-
dered on the question of approving a measure
or matter or on adopting an amendment; and
(B) resume proceedings on a postponed ques-
tion at any time after reasonable notice.
When proceedings resume on a postponed
question, notwithstanding any intervening
order for the previous question, an under-
lying proposition shall remain subject to fur-
ther debate or amendment to the same ex-
tent as when the question was postponed.
(c) Archived Records. The records of the
Committee at the National Archives and
Records Administration shall be made avail-
able for public use in accordance with Rule
VII of the Rules of the House. The chairman
shall notify the ranking minority member of
any decision, pursuant to clause 3(b)(3) or
clause 4 of the Rule, to withhold a record
otherwise available, and the matter shall be
presented to the Committee for a determina-
tion on the written request of any member of
the Committee. The chairman shall consult
with the ranking minority member on any
communication from the Archivist of the
United States or the Clerk of the House con-
cerning the disposition of noncurrent records
pursuant to clause 3(b) of the Rule.
RULE 8. SUBCOMMITTEES
(a) Establishment. There shall be such
standing subcommittees with such jurisdic-
tion and size as determined by the majority
party caucus of the Committee. The jurisdic-
tion, number, and size of the subcommittees
shall be determined by the majority party
caucus prior to the start of the process for
establishing subcommittee chairmanships
and assignments.
(b) Powers and Duties. Each subcommittee
is authorized to meet, hold hearings, receive
testimony, mark up legislation, and report
to the Committee on all matters referred to
it. Subcommittee chairmen shall set hearing
and meeting dates only with the approval of
the chairman of the Committee with a view
toward assuring the availability of meeting
rooms and avoiding simultaneous scheduling
of Committee and subcommittee meetings or
hearings whenever possible.
(c) Ratio of Subcommittees. The majority
caucus of the Committee shall determine an
appropriate ratio of majority to minority
party members for each subcommittee and
the chairman shall negotiate that ratio with
the minority party, provided that the ratio
of party members on each subcommittee
shall be no less favorable to the majority
than that of the full Committee, nor shall
such ratio provide for a majority of less than
two majority members.
(d) Selection of Subcommittee Members.
Prior to any organizational meeting held by
the Committee, the majority and minority
caucuses shall select their respective mem-
bers of the standing subcommittees.
(e) Ex Officio Members. The chairman and
ranking minority member of the Committee
shall be ex officio members with voting
privileges of each subcommittee of which
they are not assigned as members and may
be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum in such subcommittees.
RULE 9. OPENING STATEMENTS
(a) Written Statements. All written open-
ing statements at hearings and business
meetings conducted by the Committee shall
be made part of the permanent record.
(b) Length. (1) At full committee hearings,
the chairman and ranking minority member
shall be limited to 5 minutes each for an
opening statement, and may designate an-
other member to give an opening statement
of not more than 5 minutes. At sub-
committee hearings, the subcommittee
chairman and ranking minority member of
the subcommittee shall be limited to 5 min-
utes each for an opening statement. In addi-
tion, the full committee chairman and rank-
ing minority member shall each be allocated
5 minutes for an opening statement for
themselves or their designees at sub-
committee hearings.
(2) At any business meeting of the Com-
mittee, statements shall be limited to 5 min-
utes each for the chairman and ranking mi-
nority member (or their respective designee)
of the Committee or subcommittee, as appli-
cable, and 3 minutes each for all other mem-
bers. The chairman may further limit open-
ing statements for Members (including, at
the discretion of the chairman, the chairman
and ranking minority member) to one
minute.
RULE 10. REFERENCE OF LEGISLATION AND
OTHER MATTERS
All legislation and other matters referred
to the Committee shall be referred to the
subcommittee of appropriate jurisdiction
within two weeks of the date of receipt by
the Committee unless: (1) action is taken by
the full Committee within those two weeks,
or (2) by majority vote of the members of the
Committee, consideration is to be by the full
Committee. In the case of legislation or
other matters within the jurisdiction of
more than one subcommittee, the chairman
of the Committee may, in his or her discre-
tion, refer the matter simultaneously to two
or more subcommittees for concurrent con-
sideration, or may designate a subcommittee
of primary jurisdiction and also refer the
matter to one or more additional sub-
committees for consideration in sequence
(subject to appropriate time limitations), ei-
ther on its initial referral or after the mat-
ter has been reported by the subcommittee
of primary jurisdiction. Such authority shall
include the authority to refer such legisla-
tion or matter to an ad hoc subcommittee
appointed by the chairman, with the ap-
proval of the Committee, from the members
of the subcommittees having legislative or
oversight jurisdiction.
RULE 11. MANAGING LEGISLATION ON THE HOUSE
FLOOR
The chairman, in his or her discretion,
shall designate which member shall manage
legislation reported by the Committee to the
House.
RULE 12. COMMITTEE PROFESSIONAL AND
CLERICAL STAFF APPOINTMENTS
(a) Delegation of Staff. Whenever the
chairman of the Committee determines that
any professional staff member appointed
pursuant to the provisions of clause 9 of Rule
X of the House of Representatives, who is as-
signed to such chairman and not to the rank-
ing minority member, by reason of such pro-
fessional staff member’s expertise or quali-
fications will be of assistance to one or more
subcommittees in carrying out their as-
signed responsibilities, he or she may dele-
gate such staff member to such subcommit-
tees for such purpose. A delegation of a
member of the professional staff pursuant to
this subsection shall be made after consulta-
tion with subcommittee chairmen and with
the approval of the subcommittee chairman
or chairmen involved.
(b) Minority Professional Staff. Profes-
sional staff members appointed pursuant to
clause 9 of Rule X of the House of Represent-
atives, who are assigned to the ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee and not to
the chairman of the Committee, shall be as-
signed to such Committee business as the
minority party members of the Committee
consider advisable.
(c) Additional Staff Appointments. In addi-
tion to the professional staff appointed pur-
suant to clause 9 of Rule X of the House of
Representatives, the chairman of the Com-
mittee shall be entitled to make such ap-
pointments to the professional and clerical
staff of the Committee as may be provided
within the budget approved for such purposes
by the Committee. Such appointee shall be
assigned to such business of the full Com-
mittee as the chairman of the Committee
considers advisable.
(d) Sufficient Staff. The chairman shall en-
sure that sufficient staff is made available to
each subcommittee to carry out its respon-
sibilities under the rules of the Committee.
(e) Fair Treatment of Minority Members in
Appointment of Committee Staff. The chair-
man shall ensure that the minority members
of the Committee are treated fairly in ap-
pointment of Committee staff.
(f) Contracts for Temporary or Intermit-
tent Services. Any contract for the tem-
porary services or intermittent service of in-
dividual consultants or organizations to
make studies or advise the Committee or its
subcommittees with respect to any matter
within their jurisdiction shall be deemed to
have been approved by a majority of the
members of the Committee if approved by
the chairman and ranking minority member
of the Committee. Such approval shall not be
deemed to have been given if at least one-
third of the members of the Committee re-
quest in writing that the Committee for-
mally act on such a contract, if the request
is made within 10 days after the latest date
on which such chairman or chairmen, and
such ranking minority member or members,
approve such contract.
RULE 13. SUPERVISION, DUTIES OF STAFF
(a) Supervision of Majority Staff. The pro-
fessional and clerical staff of the Committee
not assigned to the minority shall be under
the supervision and direction of the chair-
man who, in consultation with the chairmen
of the subcommittees, shall establish and as-
sign the duties and responsibilities of such
staff members and delegate such authority
as they determine is appropriate.
(b) Supervision of Minority Staff. The pro-
fessional and clerical staff assigned to the
minority shall be under the supervision and
direction of the minority members of the
Committee, who may delegate such author-
ity as they determine appropriate.
RULE 14. COMMITTEE BUDGET
(a) Administration of Committee Budget.
The chairman of the Committee, in consulta-
tion with the ranking minority member,
shall for the 116th Congress attempt to en-
sure that the Committee receives necessary
amounts for professional and clerical staff,
travel, investigations, equipment, and mis-
cellaneous expenses of the Committee and
the subcommittees, which shall be adequate
to fully discharge the Committee’s respon-
sibilities for legislation and oversight.
(b) Monthly Expenditures Report. Com-
mittee members shall be furnished a copy of
each monthly report, prepared by the chair-
man for the Committee on House Adminis-
tration, which shows expenditures made dur-
ing the reporting period and cumulative for
the year by the Committee and subcommit-
tees, anticipated expenditures for the pro-
jected Committee program, and detailed in-
formation on travel.
RULE 15. BROADCASTING OF COMMITTEE
HEARINGS
Any meeting or hearing that is open to the
public may be covered in whole or in part by
radio or television or still photography, sub-
ject to the requirements of clause 4 of Rule
XI of the Rules of the House. The coverage of
any hearing or other proceeding of the Com-
mittee or any subcommittee thereof by tele-
vision, radio, or still photography shall be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18MR7.009 H18MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2753
March 18, 2019
under the direct supervision of the chairman
of the Committee, the subcommittee chair-
man, or other member of the Committee pre-
siding at such hearing or other proceeding
and may be terminated by such member in
accordance with the Rules of the House.
RULE 16. SUBPOENA POWER
The power to authorize and issue sub-
poenas is delegated to the chairman of the
full Committee, as provided for under clause
2(m)(3)(A)(i) of Rule XI of the Rules of the
House of Representatives. The chairman
shall notify the ranking minority member
prior to issuing any subpoena under such au-
thority. To the extent practicable, the chair-
man shall consult with the ranking minority
member at least 72 hours in advance of a sub-
poena being issued under such authority.
The chairman shall report to the members of
the Committee on the issuance of a subpoena
as soon as practicable but in no event later
than one week after issuance of such sub-
poena.
RULE 17. TRAVEL OF MEMBERS AND STAFF
(a) Approval of Travel. Consistent with the
primary expense resolution and such addi-
tional expense resolutions as may have been
approved, travel to be reimbursed from funds
set aside for the Committee for any member
or any staff member shall be paid only upon
the prior authorization of the chairman.
Travel may be authorized by the chairman
for any member and any staff member in
connection with the attendance of hearings
conducted by the Committee or any sub-
committee thereof and meetings, con-
ferences, and investigations that involve ac-
tivities or subject matter under the general
jurisdiction of the Committee. Before such
authorization is given, there shall be sub-
mitted to the chairman in writing the fol-
lowing: (1) the purpose of the travel; (2) the
dates during which the travel is to be made
and the date or dates of the event for which
the travel is being made; (3) the location of
the event for which the travel is to be made;
and (4) the names of members and staff seek-
ing authorization.
(b) Approval of Travel by Minority Mem-
bers and Staff. In the case of travel by mi-
nority party members and minority party
staff members for the purpose set out in (a),
the prior approval, not only of the chairman
but also of the ranking minority member,
shall be required. Such prior authorization
shall be given by the chairman only upon the
representation by the ranking minority
member in writing setting forth those items
enumerated in (1), (2), (3), and (4) of para-
graph (a).
RULE 18. WEBSITE
The chairman shall maintain an official
Committee website for the purposes of fur-
thering the Committtee’s legislative and
oversight responsibilities, including commu-
nicating information about the Committee’s
activities to Committee members and other
members of the House. The ranking minority
member may maintain an official website for
the purpose of carrying out official respon-
sibilities, including communicating informa-
tion about the activities of the minority
members of the Committee to Committee
members and other members of the House.
RULE 19. CONFERENCES
The chairman of the Committee is directed
to offer a motion under clause 1 of Rule XXII
of the Rules of the House whenever the
chairman considers it appropriate.
f
ENROLLED JOINT RESOLUTION
SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled a joint resolution of the House of
the following title, which was there-
upon signed by the Speaker on Thurs-
day, March 14, 2019:
H.J. Res. 46. Joint Resolution relating to a
national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019.
f
ADJOURNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 2(b) of House Resolution
208, the House stands adjourned until 2
p.m. on Thursday, March 21, 2019.
Thereupon (at 12 o’clock and 10 min-
utes p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Thursday,
March 21, 2019, at 2 p.m.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
395. A letter from the Chairman, Commis-
sion to Assess the Threat to the United
States From Electromagnetic Attack, trans-
mitting the Commission’s report; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
396. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs,
Personnel and Readiness, Department of De-
fense, transmitting a letter notifying the
Congress that the final report concerning
section 914(d)(3) of the Carl Levin and the
Howard P. ‘‘Buck’’ McKeon National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Pub-
lic Law 113-291) will be submitted by May 31,
2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
397. A letter from the Deputy General
Counsel, Office of the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education, Department of Education,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Title I, Part A of the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act of 1965, as Amended by
the Every Student Succeeds Act: Providing
Equitable Services to Eligible Private
School Children, Teachers, and Families re-
ceived March 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
398. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Education, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Student Assistance Gen-
eral Provisions, Federal Perkins Loan Pro-
gram, Federal Family Education Loan Pro-
gram, William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan
Program, and Teacher Education Assistance
for College and Higher Education Grant Pro-
gram [Docket ID: ED-2015-OPE-0103] (RIN:
1840-AD19) received March 15, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
399. A letter from the Associate Bureau
Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, Federal
Communications Commission, transmitting
the Commission’s final rule — Connect
America Fund [WC Docket No.: 10-90] re-
ceived March 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
400. A letter from the Deputy Bureau Chief,
Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau,
Federal Communications Commission, trans-
mitting the Commission’s final rule — Rules
and Regulations Implementing the Tele-
phone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 [CG
Docket No.: 02-278]; Junk Fax Prevention
Act of 2005 [CG Docket No.: 05-338]; Petitions
for Reconsideration and/or Declaratory Rul-
ing and Retroactive Waiver of 47 CFR Sec.
64.1200(a)(4)(iv) Regarding the Commission’s
Opt-Out Notice Requirement for Faxes Sent
with the Recipient’s Prior Express Permis-
sion received March 15, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
401. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to Somalia that was de-
clared in Executive Order 13536 of April 12,
2010, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); Public
Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c); (90 Stat. 1257) and 50
U.S.C. 1703(c); Public Law 95-223, Sec 204(c);
(91 Stat. 1627); to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
402. A communication from the President
of the United States, transmitting an Execu-
tive Order with respect to transnational
criminal organizations that takes additional
steps to deal with the national emergency
with respect to transnational criminal orga-
nizations declared in Executive Order 13581
on July 24, 2011, in view of the evolution of
these organizations as well as the increasing
sophistication of their activities, pursuant
to 50 U.S.C. 1703(b); Public Law 95-223 Sec.
204(b); (91 Stat. 1627) (H. Doc. No. 116—21); to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and or-
dered to be printed.
403. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the FY 2018 Annual Re-
port of the Interagency Working Group on
U.S. Government-Sponsored International
Exchanges and Training, pursuant to Sec.
112(f) and (g) of the Mutual Educational and
Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (Public Law
87-256), as amended [22 U.S.C. Secs. 2460(f)
and (g)]; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
404. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Communications and Legislative Af-
fairs, Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission, transmitting the Commission’s An-
nual Sunshine Act Report for 2018, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 552b(j); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
405. A letter from the Chairman, Federal
Labor Relations Authority, transmitting a
notification of a discontinuation of service
in acting role, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3349(a);
Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat. 2681-614);
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
406. A letter from the Acting Chairman,
Vice Chairman, Executive Director, Admin-
istrative Conference of the United States,
transmitting the Conference’s notice —
Adoption of Recommendations received
March 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
407. A letter from the Staff Director, Com-
mission on Civil Rights, transmitting a copy
of the charter for the U.S. Commission on
Civil Rights state advisory committees, pur-
suant to the Federal Advisory Committee
Act, 41 C.F.R. Sec. 102-3.70; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
408. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting the Department’s Designation of Ad-
ditional Members of the Special Exposure
Cohort under the Energy Employees Occupa-
tional Illness Compensation Program Act of
2000 and 42 C.F.R. pt. 83, Designating a Class
of Employees from Y-12 Plant, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
409. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Transportation, transmitting the
31st Annual Report of Accomplishments
under the Airport Improvement Program for
Fiscal Year 2017, pursuant to 49 U.S.C.
47131(a); Public Law 103-272, Sec. 1(e) (as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18MR7.012 H18MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2754 March 18, 2019
amended by Public Law 112-95, Sec. 152(c));
(126 Stat. 34); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia: Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor. H.R. 7. A bill to amend the
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide
more effective remedies to victims of dis-
crimination in the payment of wages on the
basis of sex, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–18). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. SABLAN (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, and Mr. SAN
NICOLAS):
H.R. 1809. A bill to amend the Pittman-
Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act and the
Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act,
to provide parity for United States terri-
tories and the District of Columbia, to make
technical corrections to such Acts and re-
lated laws, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee (for him-
self and Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas):
H.R. 1810. A bill to provide the legal frame-
work and income tax treatment necessary
for the growth of innovative private financ-
ing options, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services, and in ad-
dition to the Committees on Ways and
Means, Education and Labor, Armed Serv-
ices, and Veterans’ Affairs, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self, Mr. CUELLAR, Mrs. HARTZLER,
Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr.
MEADOWS, and Mr. PERRY):
H.R. 1811. A bill to require an unclassified
interagency report on the political influence
operations of the Government of China and
the Communist Party of China with respect
to the United States, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in
addition to the Committee on the Judiciary,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
(for himself and Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 1812. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to furnish Vet Center readjust-
ment counseling and related mental health
services to certain individuals; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. AMODEI:
H.R. 1813. A bill to facilitate resolution of
environmental remediation and reclamation,
resolve potential liability of the United
States, and promote economic development
in Lyon County, Nevada, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS (for himself, Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. TURNER, Mr.
ROSE of New York, and Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ):
H.R. 1814. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the age require-
ment with respect to eligibility for qualified
ABLE programs; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. CASTEN of Illinois:
H.R. 1815. A bill to require the Securities
and Exchange Commission, when developing
rules and regulations about disclosures to re-
tail investors, to conduct investor testing,
including a survey and interviews of retail
investors, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself and Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY):
H.R. 1816. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require
that children’s cosmetics containing talc in-
clude an appropriate warning unless the cos-
metics are demonstrated to be asbestos-free,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. EMMER (for himself, Mr.
GOSAR, and Mr. NEWHOUSE):
H.R. 1817. A bill to enforce the requirement
that the National Instant Criminal Back-
ground Check System to make a final dis-
position of requests to correct its records
within 60 days, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. ESTES (for himself and Ms. DA-
VIDS of Kansas):
H.R. 1818. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to require providers of a
covered service to provide location informa-
tion concerning the telecommunications de-
vice of a user of such service to an investiga-
tive or law enforcement officer or an em-
ployee or other agent of a public safety an-
swering point in an emergency situation in-
volving risk of death or serious physical
harm or in order to respond to the user’s call
for emergency services; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina (for
herself and Mr. ENGEL):
H.R. 1819. A bill to amend the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to
provide for rewards for the arrest or convic-
tion of certain foreign nationals who have
committed genocide or war crimes, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Ms. FRANKEL (for herself and Mr.
WEBER of Texas):
H.R. 1820. A bill to authorize appropria-
tions for certain cooperative projects among
the United States, Israel, and developing
countries, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. GIBBS:
H.R. 1821. A bill to make technical correc-
tions to provisions of law enacted by the
Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization
Act of 2018, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. GIBBS:
H.R. 1822. A bill to provide acquisition re-
quirements for Coast Guard Polar Security
Cutters, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. GIBBS (for himself, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of
Tennessee, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr.
DIAZ-BALART, Mr. HICE of Georgia,
Mr. GUEST, Mr. BUDD, Mr. WRIGHT,
and Mr. GROTHMAN):
H.R. 1823. A bill to provide opioid receptor
antagonists, including naloxone, to first re-
sponders for personal use, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and in addition to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself and Mr.
KENNEDY):
H.R. 1824. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for the estab-
lishment of a mesothelioma patient registry,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. LAHOOD (for himself and Mr.
SUOZZI):
H.R. 1825. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modernize the Office of
the National Taxpayer Advocate; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. LAMB (for himself and Mr.
MAST):
H.R. 1826. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide payment of Medal of
Honor special pension under such title to the
surviving spouse of a deceased Medal of
Honor recipient, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. LESKO:
H.R. 1827. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase funding for cer-
tain educational activities by terminating
taxpayer financing of Presidential election
campaigns, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on House Administra-
tion, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1828. A bill to require annual report-
ing by employers of the number of settle-
ments with employees regarding claims of
discrimination on the basis of sex, including
verbal and physical sexual harassment, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1829. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to deny a deduction for sev-
erance payments made in connection with
sexual misconduct; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York (for himself, Mr. GALLA-
GHER, Mr. COOK, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. SIRES, Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. JUDY CHU
of California, Mr. COLE, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. SABLAN,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. COLLINS
of New York, Mr. RYAN, Mr. HIMES,
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. RUIZ, Mr.
POCAN, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
Mr. TAKANO, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr. COO-
PER, Mr. LOEBSACK, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. KILDEE,
Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. PALLONE, Ms.
PLASKETT, Mr. NEAL, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. KAP-
TUR, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. CORREA, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, Mr. KILMER, Mr. RUSH,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Mr. PETERS, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. FORTENBERRY,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. MULLIN, Mr.
YOHO, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
KING of Iowa, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18MR7.000 H18MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2755
March 18, 2019
BACON, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. GRAVES of
Missouri, Mr. BEYER, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. WILSON of South Caro-
lina, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Ms. MENG,
Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
ENGEL, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. PASCRELL,
Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Mr. MOOLENAAR,
Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. MOULTON, Mr.
MARSHALL, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. KING of
New York, Mr. PRICE of North Caro-
lina, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. KIND, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
BERA, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. HECK, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Ms. ADAMS, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. NADLER, Mr.
TIPTON, Mr. BERGMAN, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. PETERSON, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. BROOKS
of Alabama, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr. LARSEN
of Washington, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. POSEY, Mr.
COHEN, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. HUNTER,
Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Mr. KATKO, Mr. GOTTHEIMER,
Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. NORMAN, Ms.
FUDGE, Mr. SOTO, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. CRIST,
Mr. BYRNE, Mr. COSTA, Mr. CLEAVER,
Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. ROSE of New York,
Mr. MORELLE, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
DELGADO, Ms. WILD, Mr. KELLY of
Mississippi, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. VELA,
Mr. BAIRD, Mr. MAST, Mr. GIBBS, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr.
BABIN, Mr. LAMBORN, and Mr.
SMUCKER):
H.R. 1830. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in commemora-
tion of the National Purple Heart Hall of
Honor; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 1831. A bill to direct the United States
Postal Service to designate a single, unique
ZIP Code for Glendale, New York; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. PAPPAS (for himself, Mr. KING
of New York, Mr. TRONE, Mr. ROSE of
New York, Ms. DEAN, Ms. SPEIER, and
Mr. COX of California):
H.R. 1832. A bill to establish minimum
standards relating to a factor for life insur-
ance eligibility and rates, and for other pur-
pose; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Miss RICE of New York (for herself,
Mr. BRINDISI, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr.
DELGADO, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr. KATKO,
Mr. KING of New York, Mrs. LOWEY,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. MORELLE,
Mr. NADLER, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
ROSE of New York, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. TONKO,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr.
REED, Ms. MENG, and Mr. JEFFRIES):
H.R. 1833. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
35 Tulip Avenue in Floral Park, New York,
as the ‘‘Lieutenant Michael R. Davidson
Post Office Building’’; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida (for himself
and Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL):
H.R. 1834. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Commerce to issue regulations prohibiting
the use of sunscreen containing oxybenzone
or octinoxate in a National Marine Sanc-
tuary in which coral is present, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. RUSH (for himself and Mr. BILI-
RAKIS):
H.R. 1835. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to ensure the consensual
donation and respectful disposition of human
bodies and human body parts donated or
transferred for education, research, or the
advancement of medical, dental, or mor-
tuary science and not for use in human
transplantation, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. YOHO (for himself and Mr.
WALTZ):
H.R. 1836. A bill to amend the Natural Gas
Act to expedite approval of exports of small
volumes of natural gas, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. BUTTERFIELD (for himself
and Mr. BILIRAKIS):
H. Res. 242. A resolution affirming the im-
portance of the Orphan Drug Act, cele-
brating the over 750 new orphan therapies
approved since its creation, and recognizing
the need to continue supporting research and
development for rare diseases; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
H. Res. 243. A resolution of inquiry request-
ing the President and directing the Attorney
General to transmit, respectively, certain
documents to the House of Representatives
relating to the actions of former Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation Acting Director An-
drew McCabe; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. SABLAN:
H.R. 1809.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 3, 17, and 18;
and Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 of the
U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
H.R. 1810.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, clauses 1 and 3 of Con-
stitution of the United States
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 1811.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
Article I, Section 8, Clause 4
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee:
H.R. 1812.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. AMODEI:
H.R. 1813.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power of Congress to make
rules for the government and regulation of
the land and naval forces, as enumerated in
Article I, Section 8, Clause 14 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS:
H.R. 1814.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1.
All legislative powers herein granted shall
be vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.
Tony Cárdenas
By Mr. CASTEN of Illinois:
H.R. 1815.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 1816.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. EMMER:
H.R. 1817.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Due Process clause of the Fifth
Amendment. Additional authority derives
from Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 (The Con-
gress shall have Power ‘‘To regulate Com-
merce with foreign Nations, and among the
several States and within the Indian
Tribes’’), Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (The
Congress shall have Power ‘‘to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof’’), and Article III, Section 1 (‘‘The ju-
dicial Power of the United States, shall be
vested in one supreme Court, and in such in-
ferior Courts as the Congress may from time
to time ordain and establish. The Judges,
both of the supreme and inferior Courts,
shall hold their Offices during good Behav-
iour, and shall, at stated Times, receive for
their Services, a Compensation, which shall
not be diminished during their Continuance
in Office’’)
By Mr. ESTES:
H.R. 1818.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: ‘‘To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Ms. FOXX of North Carolina:
H.R. 1819.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 grants Con-
gress the power to ‘‘To define and punish Pi-
racies and Felonies committed on the high
Seas, and Offences against the Law of Na-
tions;’’
By Ms. FRANKEL:
H.R. 1820.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. GIBBS:
H.R. 1821.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. GIBBS:
H.R. 1822.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18MR7.100 H18MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2756 March 18, 2019
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. GIBBS:
H.R. 1823.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the
Constition of the United States.
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 1824.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. LAHOOD:
H.R. 1825.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress shall have Power To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. LAMB:
H.R. 1826.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mrs. LESKO:
H.R. 1827.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1828.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1829.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1830.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 1831.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. PAPPAS:
H.R. 1832.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 3 provides Con-
gress with the power to ‘‘regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes.’’
Article I Section 8 Clause 10 provides Con-
gress with the power ‘‘to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 1833.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 1834.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 1835.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have power to . . . provide for the
. . . general welfare of the United
States . . .’’;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: The Congress
shall have power ‘‘To regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes;’’ and
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have power ‘‘To make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof.’’
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 1836.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 4: Mr. NEAL.
H.R. 6: Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY, Mrs. MURPHY, and Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 33: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 35: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 40: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 92: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 117: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 127: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 141: Mr. KIM and Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 230: Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 299: Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mr. BERA, Mr.
GRIFFITH, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr.
GOODEN, Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Ms.
DELAURO, Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico,
Mr. ARMSTRONG, Mr. UPTON, Mr. PENCE, Mr.
ABRAHAM, Mr. MOULTON, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Ms. ESCOBAR, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 399: Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
and Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 400: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 510: Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. COSTA, and Mr.
CONNOLLY.
H.R. 530: Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. LEVIN of Michi-
gan, and Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 535: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 540: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 553: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 568: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 613: Ms. GABBARD, Mr. CUNNINGHAM,
and Mr. MAST.
H.R. 647: Mr. SMUCKER and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 649: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ and Mr. WAT-
KINS.
H.R. 674: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 724: Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms.
FINKENAUER, and Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania.
H.R. 728: Mr. CASE and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 732: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 737: Mr. LEVIN of California and Mrs.
WALORSKI.
H.R. 748: Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 763: Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 808: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 810: Mrs. DEMINGS and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 824: Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, and Mr. SMITH of
Washington.
H.R. 838: Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
BARR, Ms. HILL of California, Mr. ROONEY of
Florida, and Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 852: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 864: Mr. NEGUSE and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 897: Mr. RESCHENTHALER and Mr. RICE
of South Carolina.
H.R. 921: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 935: Mr. POCAN, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
JOYCE of Pennsylvania, and Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 940: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 943: Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. BANKS, and
Mr. CURTIS.
H.R. 948: Mr. WALBERG.
H.R. 961: Mr. HECK, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
Mr. HIMES, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
CHABOT, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. KIM, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Mr. CROW, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Mr. SOTO, Mrs. AXNE, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Ms. MATSUI, Mr.
SARBANES, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. PAPPAS, and Ms.
DEAN.
H.R. 965: Mr. RUSH and Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 1019: Mr. CORREA and Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 1035: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 1043: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1055: Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. SHERRILL,
Mr. STANTON, Mr. ALLRED, Mr. NORCROSS,
and Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
H.R. 1139: Mr. PAYNE, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, and Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 1154: Mr. KILMER and Mr. KIM.
H.R. 1156: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 1169: Ms. MCCOLLUM and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1173: Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 1175: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1185: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 1222: Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 1225: Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. GOLDEN, and
Mr. CARTER of Texas.
H.R. 1228: Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms.
PINGREE, Mr. POCAN, Mr. CRIST, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr. TIP-
TON, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
PALLONE, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of
Illinois, Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. TURNER, Mr.
MITCHELL, and Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 1289: Ms. JACKSON LEE and Mr.
PETERS.
H.R. 1296: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 1321: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1327: Mr. KILMER, Mr. UPTON, Mrs.
AXNE, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr. STANTON,
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. CHENEY, and Mr.
LAMB.
H.R. 1328: Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 1342: Ms. MENG and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1350: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1360: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 1368: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 1377: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
KHANNA, and Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 1383: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1407: Mr. LAMB, Mr. STIVERS, Mr.
MAST, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, and
Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 1411: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1417: Mr. KIM and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1425: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 1449: Mr. KINZINGER.
H.R. 1454: Mr. CUMMINGS and Mr. LAWSON of
Florida.
H.R. 1485: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 1489: Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 1507: Mr. COHEN, Mr. CASTEN of Illi-
nois, and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1534: Mr. KILMER and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 1550: Mr. WELCH, Mr. GROTHMAN, and
Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1551: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
and Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 1553: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1572: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 1591: Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. MOORE, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms.
NORTON, and Mr. HIMES.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:07 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18MR7.016 H18MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2757
March 18, 2019
H.R. 1595: Mr. NADLER, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. NEAL,
and Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 1605: Mr. DUFFY.
H.R. 1616: Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 1620: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. HOYER, Ms.
NORTON, and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1622: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr.
MITCHELL, and Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 1648: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 1649: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 1682: Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1694: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa and Ms. FUDGE.
H.R. 1706: Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. MOONEY of West
Virginia, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 1707: Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. LANGEVIN, and Mr.
BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1715: Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 1735: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 1736: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
LOFGREN, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. TLAIB, and Mr.
CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 1761: Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr. COOK, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, and Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 1764: Mr. CALVERT and Mr. WOODALL.
H.R. 1766: Mr. STIVERS, Mr. FERGUSON, Mr.
BERGMAN, Mr. PETERS, and Mr. CARSON of In-
diana.
H.R. 1767: Mr. MOULTON and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 1773: Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 1777: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mr.
RASKIN.
H.R. 1796: Ms. CHENEY.
H.R. 1805: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.J. Res. 23: Ms. TLAIB and Ms. OMAR.
H.J. Res. 35: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H. Res. 23: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr.
GRIFFITH, Mr. CASE, Mr. GOLDEN, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. CASTOR of Flor-
ida, Mr. PAPPAS, and Mrs. BUSTOS.
H. Res. 60: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
STAUBER, Mr. CASE, Mr. NEGUSE, and Mr.
PAPPAS.
H. Res. 100: Ms. FRANKEL.
H. Res. 107: Mr. MOULTON, Mr. CUNNINGHAM,
Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. BANKS, and
Mr. VAN DREW.
H. Res. 116: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Mr.
MITCHELL.
H. Res. 124: Mrs. HAYES, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms.
FRANKEL, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. CUNNINGHAM,
Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. CORREA, Mr.
ALLRED, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. MCNERNEY, Ms.
ADAMS, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. DOGGETT,
Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. CONNOLLY, and Mr. BRIN-
DISI.
H. Res. 146: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. BIGGS,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. RUSH, Mr. FERGUSON, Mr.
COLLINS of New York, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Ms.
TLAIB, Ms. JUDY CHU of California, and Ms.
FINKENAUER.
H. Res. 169: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H. Res. 174: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H. Res. 220: Mr. COHEN.
H. Res. 221: Mr. COHEN.
H. Res. 222: Ms. STEFANIK, Ms. WILD, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CASE, and Ms. HILL
of California.
H. Res. 224: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H. Res. 230: Mr. MAST.
H. Res. 238: Ms. MCCOLLUM and Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:24 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18MR7.020 H18MRPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E315
March 18, 2019
RECOGNIZING JANICE FULLER’S
TEN YEARS OF SERVICE TO THE
PEOPLE OF THE SIXTH CON-
GRESSIONAL DISTRICT
HON. FRANK PALLONE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I rise to
pay tribute to Janice Fuller, who has served
as one of my most trusted advisors for the last
decade in her roles as District Director and
then Chief of Staff. Janice is leaving my office
after 10 years of distinguished service.
For 10 years now, my constituents in New
Jersey’s Sixth Congressional District have had
a fierce advocate in Janice. She has a pas-
sion for constituent services and has always
been a champion for the district’s municipali-
ties, counties, organizations and businesses
as they explore funding or partnerships from
federal agencies.
Janice’s commitment to and advocacy for
the people of my Congressional District was
never more on display than in the days,
weeks, months and years following
Superstorm Sandy, which devastated my dis-
trict. She was relentless in her efforts to en-
sure the federal government provided the as-
sistance needed to New Jerseyans impacted
by Sandy. Janice fought for increased tem-
porary housing for those who lost their homes,
worked to secure funding for critical flood con-
trol projects and highlighted flood insurance
fraud that was perpetrated against home-
owners. Her determination to improve the re-
sponse and recovery process from this historic
storm had an impact on countless people
throughout New Jersey.
Over the last four years, Janice has served
as my Chief of Staff, leading my legislative,
communications and constituent relations staff.
Prior to joining my staff in 2009, Janice
served the people of New Jersey in the offices
of two governors. First, she served in the
McGreevey Administration in 2001 and 2002
as an Assistant to the Deputy Chief of Staff,
and from 2006 through 2009 she was the Di-
rector of Cabinet Affairs in the Corzine Admin-
istration.
Janice is also well respected throughout
New Jersey as one of the state’s top political
minds. From 2003 through 2006, she was the
Executive Director of the New Jersey Demo-
cratic State Committee. In this position, she
ran the day-to-day operations of the state po-
litical party—this is no easy task.
Throughout her entire career, Janice has
been a fierce advocate for the people of New
Jersey. And that advocacy spills over into her
free time—if that time even exists for Janice.
Not only has she served as a Board Member
on the Covenant House New Jersey–Asbury
Park Program and the New Jersey Equal Op-
portunity Fund, she recently won an election
to serve on the Ocean Township School
Board.
It goes without saying that public service
runs in Janice’s blood. She may be leaving my
office, but I have no doubt that she will con-
tinue to find ways to serve the people of New
Jersey throughout the remainder of her career.
Over the last ten years, Janice has spent a
lot of late nights representing me and my con-
stituents at meetings or events throughout the
district. I want to acknowledge the support
Janice always received from her husband,
John, and her three children, Grace, Finn and
Sloane.
Madam Speaker, the American people, New
Jerseyans and the people of the Sixth Con-
gressional District have been well served by
Janice Fuller for the last 20 years. I wish her
nothing but the best in her future endeavors
and look forward to watching all the ways she
looks to serve the public good.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ZOE LOFGREN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, due to my
attendance of a funeral I was not present for
the vote, on March 14, 2019, on H. Con. Res.
24, expressing the sense of Congress that the
report of Special Counsel Mueller should be
made available to the public and to Congress.
Had I been present for rollcall vote 125 I
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I am pleased that
this resolution calling for the release of Special
Counsel Mueller’s report to the public and to
Congress passed decisively.
f
RECOGNIZING JUDY MCCARTY
HON. SUSAN A. DAVIS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Madam Speaker,
I rise to mourn the passing and celebrate the
life of a wonderful friend and former San
Diego City Councilwoman, Judy McCarty.
It is an honor to have worked in the same
community as Judy. Throughout her accom-
plished life, Judy’s selflessness and commit-
ment to others never wavered. As a journalist,
a community volunteer, and a dedicated public
servant, Judy always remained focused on
building community and improving the lives of
her neighbors.
Judy brought a zest for life into everything
she did. One of her biggest passion projects
was the founding of Mission Trails Regional
Park. Judy was a key figure in establishing
this beloved public recreational amenity that is
now the largest municipally owned park in the
State of California and the 6th largest park in
the entire country. This is just one of many ac-
complishments of Judy’s, in a lifetime of serv-
ice and dedication to the greater good.
Those who have had the pleasure to cross
paths with Judy likely know that she was a
woman who valued the little things in life. She
loved volunteering, tending to her garden, and
cheering for the Indiana Hoosiers, but above
all, she loved being a mother and a grand-
mother.
I wish her family the comfort to know that
Judy left San Diego a better place than she
found it, and that we are all better off because
of her vision and leadership in our community.
I am grateful to have called Judy my friend
and will miss her presence in the community.
The joy she brought into life will live on in the
thoughts and actions of everyone she has
touched along the way. Though she will be
missed dearly, the impact she made in San
Diego will always endure.
f
HONORING ROBERT B. THOMAS
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor a beloved member of the community
who is celebrating a remarkable 95th birthday
this year, Mr. Robert B. Thomas.
Robert’s story is, in many ways, a uniquely
American one. He was born on March 14,
1924 to Robert and Annie Thomas in Augusta,
Georgia and he migrated with his family to
New York, where he attended Benjamin
Franklin High School. He graduated from New
York Vocational High School, where he was
introduced to, and excelled in, the trade of
plumbing. During World War II, Robert heeded
the call to serve his country and on March 15,
1944 he joined the United States Army. He
became a gunner in the 394th Anti-Aircraft
Unit and after serving our nation, he came
back to serve his city with the New York City
Public Housing Authority. In 1946, Robert met
the woman who he would marry, Doris E.
Jones and they had two daughters, Symra
and Sandra. He also has three grandchildren,
Duane Nichols, Turhan Brandon and Taniya
Brandon, and four great grandchildren, Indira
Nichols, Sebastian Brandon, Orion Brandon
and Dominick Brandon.
Robert worked in construction as a member
of Laborers International Union of North Amer-
ica, Laborers Local 60 and the International
Union of Operating Engineers Local 137, the
International Union of Operating Engineers
Local 15 and Con Edison, which enabled him
to put his daughters through college. He likes
to reminisce about the past and enjoy talking
about how he was a foreman and helped build
the Governor Malcolm Wilson Tappan Zee
Bridge. His experience on that project later led
to his work on the Throgs Neck Bridge and
second deck of the George Washington
Bridge.
To his family, his friends, and his commu-
nity, Robert Thomas is known as a kind, gen-
erous and loving person, who has helped oth-
ers achieve their goals. It is my honor to rec-
ognize Robert on this special occasion and to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18MR8.001 E18MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E316 March 18, 2019
thank him for his service to our country and
community here in New York.
f
AMERICAN LEGION CELEBRATES
100TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the 100th anniversary of the Amer-
ican Legion. The Legion was first chartered on
September 16, 1919 to serve as a patriotic
veteran’s organization.
One of the oldest veteran non-profit organi-
zations, the American Legion also stands as
the nation’s largest wartime Veterans Service
Organization. The Legion is devoted to sup-
porting service members, veterans, commu-
nities, and families. In its 100 years of exist-
ence, the Legion has made remarkable strides
in advancing the cause of our veterans and
service members through legislative accom-
plishments like the GI Bill, Flag Code, and the
creation of the U.S. Veterans Bureau, a fore-
runner of the Veterans Administration. The Le-
gion is also active in our local communities,
with programs like Operation Comfort War-
riors, Boys State, and the American Legion
Baseball. Since its charter, the American Le-
gion has made it their mission to mentor
youth, advocate for patriotism and honor, and
promote strong national security and a contin-
ued devotion to our fellow service members
and veterans.
I applaud the Legion for passing the century
mark in their never-ending quest to improve
the lives of service members and veterans. I’m
proud to be a member of such an excellent or-
ganization, and I wish them another 100 years
of excellence.
f
RECOGNIZING EMERY COUNTY,
UTAH LEADERS
HON. JOHN R. CURTIS
OF UTAH
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. CURTIS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the leaders in Emery County,
Utah, who fought for over two decades to re-
solve long standing issues facing their county
through federal legislation. On March 12th,
2019, President Trump signed into law S. 47,
a sweeping public lands bill that included the
Emery County Public Lands Management Act,
with broad bipartisan support.
With this historic achievement, I would like
to pay tribute to the exceptional efforts and
years of dedication from the Emery County
Commissioners, Emery County Public Lands
Council, and many other state and local lead-
ers who played an integral role in making this
cooperative effort possible. This law will ben-
efit Utahns for decades into the future.
This law is a model for how Utahns can
work together to solve public land manage-
ment questions in one of the most unique
landscapes of the country. After years of input
and stakeholder engagement, this law re-
solves a number of issues affecting the region
through a school land trust exchange, con-
veying certain lands to Emery County, ex-
panding Goblin Valley State Park, conserva-
tion designations, and the creation of the new
San Rafael Swell Recreation Area. The bill
also decreases the amount of land owned by
the federal government in Emery County.
There are countless individuals over the
years who deserve recognition and made this
law possible. Over the last year, since I spon-
sored the Emery County bill in the House, I
would particularly like to recognize:
Emery County Commissioners Lynn
Sitterud, Kent Wilson, and Gil Conover.
Emery County Public Lands Council Mem-
bers Rod Play (Chair), Edward Geary (Vice
Chair), Laren Huntsman, Leon McElprang,
Kim McFarlane, J.R. Nelson, Randall Stilson,
Sherrel Ward, Les Wilberg, Bruce Wilson, and
Ray Petersen (Public Lands Administrator).
House Natural Resources Committee Chair-
man ROB BISHOP.
Governor Gary Herbert.
Senator MITT ROMNEY.
These leaders should all be very proud of
what was accomplished with this bill.
f
IN HONOR OF JD LAMBRIGHT
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
honor the memory of JD Lambright, a larger-
than-life Texan and dedicated leader in Mont-
gomery County. He leaves behind a legacy of
outstanding service to the great State of
Texas and I know our entire community will
miss his presence dearly.
A product of the Texas Panhandle, JD was
born and raised in the town of Pampa, Texas.
He earned both his bachelor’s and master’s
degrees in Electrical Engineering at Texas
Tech University, and remained a proud Raider
for all his life. Law was another passion of his,
and JD later went on to earn his law degree
from South Texas College of Law in Houston,
Texas.
JD made good use of his Master’s and
worked as a geophysicist and electrical engi-
neer for Shell Oil Company and Shell E&P
Technology Company in Houston. Following
his successful career in the energy industry,
he started his own private law practice in Con-
roe, where he focused on a variety of family,
criminal, and civil law issues.
First elected to the Montgomery County At-
torney’s office in 2012, JD later became the
chief legal advisor for Montgomery County. He
not only possessed a shrewd legal mind, but
a warm and caring heart. Those who were
lucky enough to work with him remember most
his genuine affection for his co-workers, and
he was twice awarded Montgomery County’s
‘‘Boss of the Year.’’
JD was an inspirational leader who used his
positions of power for the good of the entire
community. During his time at the County At-
torney’s Office, he was responsible for the
passage of the first Code of Ethics in Mont-
gomery County. He worked tirelessly to make
this public office more accessible to those who
needed it most—the residents. Under his lead-
ership, the office kept more cases in-house,
saved hundreds of thousands of tax-payer dol-
lars, and brought in a new normal of govern-
ment transparency across the Montgomery
County area.
Though I could spend hours listing the many
positions held by JD and professional honors
he accumulated, I know he considered his
greatest accomplishment to be his family. He
married his high school sweetheart, Belinda
Cates, herself a prominent figure in the Mont-
gomery County area, and they were married
for forty-two wonderful years.
There is no doubt that JD left a positive pro-
fessional impact on Montgomery County and
the state of Texas, but what I will miss most
about him is his old-fashioned friendship, his
love for his community, and his infectioustly
positive outlook on life. I join JD’s family,
friends, and the entire Eighth District of Texas
in mourning. JD will be greatly missed.
f
MIRIAM AND ARI LOREN
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor two pillars of the Scarsdale community,
Miriam and Ari Loren, who this year are being
honored by Young Israel of Scarsdale at their
47th Annual Dinner.
Miriam was born in Bratislava, Slovakia and
came to the U.S. in 1982. Her family moved
to Silver Spring, MD where she graduated
from the Hebrew Academy of Greater Wash-
ington, now known as Melvin J Berman He-
brew Academy. Miriam is a graduate of Bar-
nard College and Columbia University’s
Teachers College, after which she worked for
many years in early childhood special edu-
cation, running classrooms for develop-
mentally delayed children and their parents.
Miriam has also worked as an evaluator, diag-
nosing, testing and evaluating children for spe-
cial services.
For the past few years, Miriam has worked
for Camp Yavneh as their Inclusion Coordi-
nator. This program has grown from two
campers participating in only the second
month of camp to almost thirty campers
across both months.
Miriam has volunteered extensively for her
children’s schools, including serving as their
Parent Association President for six years.
Miriam was also on the Westchester Jewish
Council inclusion initiative for local syna-
gogues. Miriam is currently on a mental health
task force for the Ruderman Foundation.
Ari was born and raised here in New Ro-
chelle. After graduating from Westchester He-
brew High School, Ari earned his BS from Ye-
shiva University and MBA from Bar-Ilan Uni-
versity.
Professionally, Ari operates a family busi-
ness and manages some real estate. Outside
of work, Ari has spent the last 8 years heavily
involved in the local hockey scene. He served
as President of New Rochelle Lightning Hock-
ey from 2013 to 2018, growing the program
from 52 players in 2013 to well over 200 kids
today. Ari loves coaching hockey, and cur-
rently helps coach in the New Rochelle Light-
ning program, as well as at the Frisch School
and as a head coach at Westchester Day
School. Miriam and Ari have 5 fantastic boys,
aged 6 to 16. The Lorens love raising their
children in the same warm and loving commu-
nity in which Ari was raised. Miriam and Ari
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18MR8.004 E18MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E317
March 18, 2019
credit both of their parents in teaching them
the importance of community and giving back.
Madam Speaker, Miriam and Ari are most
deserving of the Community Service Award
from YIS. Congratulations to them on this
honor.
f
HONORING THE 25TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF WAYNE HIGH SCHOOL
AFJROTC
HON. JIM BANKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Wayne High School’s AFJROTC’s 25th
anniversary. AFJROTC Unit IN–941 was es-
tablished in 1994 at Wayne High School in
Fort Wayne, Indiana, under the leadership of
Major Ed Bennett and Senior Master Sergeant
Bill Tester. Since its inception, AFJROTC Unit
IN–941 has prepared over 2,800 cadets for
military service and success in and out of the
classroom.
The mission of the AFJROTC is to develop
citizens of character, dedicated to serving their
nation and community. Now, two decades
after its establishment, the Wayne High
School AFJROTC continues to uphold the
mission. Over the last five years, an average
of 122 cadets have joined Unit IN–941. The
unit has recorded an impressive 1647 Leader-
ship Development Requirement hours with ex-
tracurricular activities such as Model Rocketry,
the Academic Bowl and Junior Shooting. Ca-
dets give back to our community by providing
Color Guards for events and assisting with
Honor Flights from Ft. Wayne. In fact, Unit IN–
941 has logged over 4143 hours of community
service and has set a goal of 1200 hours for
2019.
Unit IN–941 has prepared its cadets for suc-
cess. About five percent of all cadets pursue
military-related careers after graduation. I re-
cently had the privilege of appointing Wayne
High School AFJROTC cadet Wendy
Samayoa to the United States Air Force Acad-
emy. Every cadet who served in Unit In–941
at Wayne High School gained valuable skills
and experiences that prepared them for life
after high school.
Congratulations to Wayne High School’s
AFJROTC Unit IN–941 on their 25th anniver-
sary.
f
HONORING ANDREI BEZZUBIKOFF
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor two pillars of the Scarsdale community,
Andrei Bezzubikoff, this year’s Distinguished
Service Award honoree at the Young Israel of
Scarsdale 47th Annual Dinner.
Andrei studied Theology at the Facultad de
Teologı́a Pontificia y Civil de Lima. He later
graduated from the Stated University of New
York at Purchase in 2013, and went on to re-
ceive his Masters degree from St. John’s Uni-
versity.
Since 1997, Andrei has worked at Young
Israel of Scarsdale. He also serves as adjunct
faculty at my alma mater, Lehman College,
since 2018. Andrei has become a beloved part
of the YIS community and is well known
throughout the congregation.
Outside of his professional work at YIS,
Andrei is also a very accomplished author. In
2008, his short story La Mujer de los Barcos,
was awarded first prize at the ‘‘2008 Palabras’’
contest in Lima-Perú. In 2010, Asilos de Luz,
his short narrative book, was published by
Hipocampo Editores. He had read his work at
McNally bookstore, at Westchester Community
College, Purchase College, and at the
Ossining Public Library.
Of course, Andrei’s true love and passion in
life is his family. He has been married to his
wife, Shirley, since 2001 and they have two
wonderful children, Oleg age 13 and Ilari age
11. Andrei’s hobbies also include reading,
playing soccer, visiting museums, listening to
classical music and traveling.
Madam Speaker, no one is more deserving
of the Distinguished Service Award than
Andrei Bezzubikoff. I want to congratulate him
on receiving this well-deserved recognition
and thank him for his years of service to the
Scarsdale community.
f
TRIBUTE TO CHAD PADGETT
HON. DON YOUNG
OF ALASKA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. YOUNG. Madam Speaker, I want to pay
tribute today and thank Chad Padgett for his
years of service on my staff, the great state of
Alaska, and to the United States of America.
Chad Padgett first came to work in my office
in 1994 and has served as my State Director
for more than a decade. Madam Speaker, to
put the magnitude and demands of his job into
perspective requires some explanation. There
are only seven other states in the U.S. House
of Representatives that have State Directors.
In the other 43 states, the position is com-
monly referred to as District Director. For ex-
ample, the State of California has 53 House
District Directors.
During Mr. Padgett’s tenure in my office he
has traveled to almost every city, town, village
and road stop in the state. That’s quite an ac-
complishment in and of itself, when you think
about how large the 49th state actually is.
Alaska has 6640 miles of coastline rep-
resenting 50 percent of our nation’s total
coastline and is one-fifth the size of the entire
country. Many of the places Mr. Padgett has
traveled to have only been accessible by air or
water. Remember, even our state capitol, the
third largest city in the state, can only be
accessed by plane or ferry. He has traveled
by car, truck, jet, single-engine plane, heli-
copter, state ferry, and boats of all sizes and
makes.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Padgett has had a lot
of geography to cover in Alaska—more than
California, Texas and Montana combined.
These three states have 90 people doing what
Mr. Padgett does.
As mentioned earlier, Mr. Padgett joined my
team in 1994 as a Campaign Assistant. In
1995, he became a Special Assistant in my
congressional office and quickly became my
Deputy State Director. He remained in that po-
sition until, under President George W. Bush’s
administration, he received a Presidential
nomination to serve as State Director for the
Farm Services Agency. From there, he be-
came the State Director for USDA Rural De-
velopment. He remained with the USDA until
2009, when he chose to come back to work
as my State Director.
As much as I hate to see Mr. Padgett leave
my office, I am equally pleased that he has
been selected to serve as the State Director
for the Bureau of Land Management in Alas-
ka.
Mr. Padgett will excel in his new position.
He brings to the job the right temperament, in-
tegrity, experience and knowledge necessary
to provide leadership and stewardship over-
seeing our federal lands.
Mr. Padgett has proven himself as a loyal,
competent and respected public servant. He
has shown care and compassion for literally
thousands of Alaskans by helping them re-
solve their problems and navigate the bureau-
cratic mazes.
He is well-liked by his co-workers and has
helped mentor many young staffers by instill-
ing his core values of hard work, loyalty, re-
sponsibility and maintaining a positive attitude.
To me, Chad Padgett is more than my State
Director. Most of all, he is a trusted friend. He
is an advisor with my best interests always at
heart. He is like family—and always will be.
While it is difficult thinking of his departure
from my staff, it gives me a great sense of
pride and comfort knowing he will oversee and
be the steward for about a quarter-of-a-billion
acres of federal land in Alaska.
On behalf of the countless number of Alas-
kans that he has helped, his co-workers, and
most of all, my family and me—I thank him
and God bless.
We are excited and extend our best wishes
to him for the challenges ahead.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF EDWARD
HART, THE GREATER PITTSTON
FRIENDLY SONS 2019 MAN OF
THE YEAR
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Edward Hart, who was named
the Greater Pittston Friendly Sons Man of the
Year at their annual St. Patrick’s Day celebra-
tion on Sunday, March 17, 2019.
Edward is a Pittston native and the son of
the late Edward and Jean Morrow Hart. He is
a graduate of Pittston Area High School and
the University of Scranton.
Edward has dedicated his career to radio
and broadcast television, concentrating in rev-
enue development and management. He
began his career at WARM before moving on
to Magic 93. In 1988, while working at Q102
Radio, Edward became the youngest radio
station manager in the country. He then
transitioned to television, working in various
sales and management roles for WOLF-TV,
which later became FOX56. In 1998, Edward
was the first to generate over $1 million in rev-
enue in FOX history. Edward transitioned to
WNEP in 2006 where he also managed the
local sales efforts to record levels.
Edward is an active member of the Greater
Pittston Friendly Sons of St. Patrick. In 2014,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18MR8.008 E18MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E318 March 18, 2019
he served as president during the group’s cen-
tennial year. He dedicated a tremendous
amount of time and effort liaising with the Se-
cret Service and the Office of the Vice Presi-
dent to secure Vice President Joe Biden as
the principal speaker at the organization’s cen-
tennial celebration. Edward also instituted the
recitation of St. Patrick’s prayer to begin every
meeting—in order to honor the group’s patron
saint.
Edward has been married to his wife, Nat-
alie Amico Hart, for 25 years, and they have
three children, Edward IV, Alexandra, and
Emma. Edward is actively involved in his com-
munity as a youth sports coach for basketball,
baseball, football, and soccer. He is a member
of Our Lady of the Eucharist Parish in Pittston
and a 4th Degree Knight of the Knights of Co-
lumbus Assembly No. 948 and JFK Council
No. 372.
It is an honor to recognize Edward as the
Greater Pittston Friendly Sons 2019 Man of
the Year. I thank him for his dedicated service
to our community and wish him the best this
St. Patrick’s Day.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF BETTY
CONNER
HON. MARK DeSAULNIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the life and service of a
longtime Pittsburg resident, Ms. Betty Conner.
Betty was born on May 20, 1936 in
Sondheimer, Louisiana to parents Maggie and
Ray Frost. She soon made her way to Contra
Costa County, and Betty spent 73 years as a
resident of Pittsburg and graduated from Pitts-
burg High School in 1964. For 29 years, Betty
served the community and worked as a nurse
for Contra Costa County Social Services.
For a decade, Betty and her husband of 50
years, Douglas, used their retirement income
to cook lunches for children in downtown Pitts-
burg. After Douglas’ passing in 2009, Betty
continued serving meals with the help of her
granddaughter, Tanicia Currie.
In 2014, Betty’s community efforts were offi-
cially established as a non-profit organization
called Branches of Community Service. Now,
Betty’s annual backpack and toy drives serv-
ice over 125 children and her free Saturday
lunches continue to be a trusted and important
resource for Pittsburg youth.
Betty and Douglas’ contributions to the Pitts-
burg community have been celebrated. Doug-
las was honored by the City of Pittsburg with
a cement plaque at the local park across from
the Conner residence and Betty was recog-
nized as a Woman of the Year for Contra
Costa County.
Betty is survived by her five sons and many
relatives. She will be sincerely missed by
those who had the pleasure of knowing her,
and will be remembered for her endless serv-
ice to the community.
HONORING SYLVIA LASK
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, it is my great
and distinct privilege to honor one of my dear-
est friends, the incomparable Sylvia Lask, as
she celebrated her 85th birthday this year on
February 25th.
Born in 1934 to Vera Lask and Max Lask,
Sylvia was one of three children in the family,
which included her brothers Ronald and Rob-
ert. She grew up in Detroit, Michigan and later
moved to New York City, where she became
certified as a dietician. Sylvia and I first met
when we were both living in Co-op City. I had
knocked on her door while gathering petition
signatures, and she began asking me all kinds
of questions pertinent to both our community
and the political world. After we had a long
chat, I asked if she was a member of the local
political club, and suggested she join us at the
next meeting. She did, and we became fast
friends.
Sylvia and I were both heavily involved in
the club’s work from there on out. She went
on to serve as Democratic State Committee
Person, was also a delegate at two demo-
cratic conventions, for Ted Kennedy and Bill
Clinton.
Sylvia is a fierce advocate for her commu-
nity and always a strong voice on the issue of
mental health. Her lobbying trips to Albany
have become the stuff of legend. Among other
things, her efforts led to the passage of the
Mental Health in Education Act, which requires
Mental Health to be taught in all public
schools in New York State. Even at 85, Sylvia
still makes those weekly trips to Albany and
continues her advocacy work on behalf of the
Mental Health Association in New York State
(MHANYS).
When not saving the world, Sylvia enjoys
listening to folk music—specifically The Wea-
vers, Pete Seeger and Peter Paul and Mary—
and taking long strolls. Her spirit is indomi-
table; she never sits down, never spends too
much time celebrating a victory, and is always
planning the next steps needed to advance
patient rights. Sylvia’s drive has always been
fueled in large part by her family and friends.
She was married to Sam Hershkowitz and has
two beautiful children, Vicki and Marc, and
one grandchild, Ron. They are the light in Syl-
via’s life.
Madam Speaker, I count myself fortunate
every day to know Sylvia Lask, and I’m not
alone in feeling that way about such a special
individual. Her list of friends, from elected offi-
cials to community activists and everyone in
between, is too long to list. She has done in-
credible work to help the people of New York
over many decades, and her contributions
cannot be overstated.
Sylvia is like a family member to me and my
entire family. I am so honored to recognize
her achievements, and I am so thankful to
have her in my life.
HONORING THE MEMORY OF REV-
EREND DOCTOR MYRON
PANCHUK
HON. MIKE QUIGLEY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today
as a Co-Chair of the Congressional Ukraine
Caucus, and as a Chicagoan, to honor the
memory of Reverend Doctor Myron Panchuk,
a widely respected religious leader and com-
munity activist whose sudden passing on
March 9th brought tremendous sadness and
reflection to the Ukrainian-American commu-
nity in Chicago and beyond.
A pillar of Chicago’s Ukrainian-American
community, Father Myron served countless
parishioners throughout his 37 years of Priest-
hood for the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Diocese
of Chicago. In addition to assisting thousands
of Chicagoans from all faiths and back-
grounds, Fr. Myron was actively involved in
more than half a dozen community organiza-
tions, including during his tenure as Vice
President of the Ukrainian Genocide Famine
Foundation.
After decades of community service, Fr.
Myron turned to academia and activism. In
2017, he earned a Ph.D. researching the ef-
fects of intergenerational trauma on ethnic
Ukrainians. He was committed to building coa-
litions to fight for ethnic and racial justice, es-
pecially in the area of genocide prevention.
In recent years, as Ukraine’s sovereignty
has been challenged and outside interference
appears unrelenting, Fr. Myron, as an exam-
ple to us all, continued to pray, and to work,
to end the violence and corruption that has
marred his ancestral homeland.
He will be especially remembered for his
optimism and courage, and for his faith in a
young, new wave of Ukrainian-Americans who
face the challenge, and opportunity, of healing
the scars of the past and building the future of
the Ukrainian-American community. While the
City of Chicago and Ukrainian-Americans ev-
erywhere mourn his loss, Fr. Myron’s legacy is
sure to live on in the hearts of all those who
knew him.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF WILLIAM J.
WILLIAMS, RECIPIENT OF THE
GREATER PITTSTON FRIENDLY
SONS’ SWINGLE AWARD
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize William J. Williams, who
will receive the Greater Pittston Friendly Sons’
Swingle Award. William was honored on Sun-
day, March 17, at the Friendly Sons’ annual
St. Patrick’s Day event.
William was born to William and Susan
Rudick Williams on May 25, 1955. He is a
graduate of Pittston Area High School (class
of 1973), and he earned an associate degree
in industrial electronics from Luzerne County
Community College and a real estate license
from Penn State University.
William found success in a variety of fields
throughout his career, in the medical field as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18MR8.012 E18MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E319
March 18, 2019
a respiratory therapy technician, in commercial
building sales, and as a real estate agent with
Atlas Realty. William has been involved with
the Pittston City Ambulance Association since
1973, and he earned his EMT certification in
1977. He is also a member of the Hughestown
Hose Company, president of the Eagle Hose
Company, and the secretary of the Pittston
Volunteer Fireman’s Relief organization.
In 1990, William was hired by the City of
Pittston as a firefighter. In 1998, he received
commendations for valor from the Pennsyl-
vania House of Representatives and Senate
after valiantly rescuing an elderly woman from
her gas-filled home. William retired from the
profession in 2018 as an Assistant Fire Chief
and Fire Inspector.
In addition to having an impressive profes-
sional career, William has always been ac-
tively involved in his community. He has been
a member of the Knights of Columbus since
1998, achieving 4th degree in 2003. William
has been a member of the Greater Pittston
Friendly Sons since 1998, serving as presi-
dent of the organization in 2009. He currently
serves as the co-chair of the Friendly Sons
Scholarship Committee.
William resides in Pittston and has been
married to his wife Irene for 42 years. He is
the proud father of three daughters: Amy, Jen-
nifer, and Samantha.
It is an honor to recognize William for his
many years of service to our community. I
wish him all the best on this St. Patrick’s Day.
f
HONORING RISË AND MARC
ROBBINS
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor two pillars of the Scarsdale community,
Risë and Marc Robbins, who this year are
being recognized as the Keter Shem Tov Hon-
orees at this year’s Young Israel of Scarsdale
Anniversary Dinner.
Risë and Marc have been members of the
Young Israel of Scarsdale community, to-
gether, for nearly 30 years. Risë grew up in
New Rochelle and moved to Scarsdale in
1973, when she joined the YIS. She grad-
uated NYU and then attended Touro college
where she graduated the Physician Assistant
Program.
Marc grew up in New Rochelle and grad-
uated Columbia University. He is the president
of IM Robbins P.C. an engineering company
in New York City.
The two met at the Scarsdale volunteer Am-
bulance Corp, where they were both EMT vol-
unteers for over 20 years. They have been ac-
tive on committees in their children schools
and the shul. The YIS plays a very important
part of their lives. It is a warm and welcoming
community and they feel very lucky to be a
part of it.
Together Risë and Marc have raised four
children, Jennifer, married to Yakov, Daniel,
Amy and Michael and have three grand-
children. Avishai, Shira and Moshe.
Madam Speaker, Risë and Marc have to-
gether done tremendous work to strengthen
the Scarsdale community, both inside and out-
side of the YIS. They are most deserving of
this wonderful recognition, and I want to con-
gratulate them on this special occasion.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, had I
been present for roll call vote No. 125 to H.
Con. Res. 24—Expressing the sense of Con-
gress that the report of Special Counsel
Mueller should be made available to the public
and to Congress, I would have voted AYE on
the measure.
f
HONORING THE WORK OF ANNE B.
WICKS
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Anne B. Wicks on her retire-
ment from the District of Columbia Courts.
The Joint Committee on Judicial Administra-
tion appointed Ms. Wicks to serve as Execu-
tive Officer of the D.C. Courts in February
2000. She is the first woman and longest,
serving Executive Officer in the Courts’ his-
tory.
Prior to her appointment as Executive Offi-
cer, Ms. Wicks worked for the Courts in a
number of capacities, including Acting Chief
Financial Officer, 1999 to 2000; Deputy Exec-
utive Officer for Court Operations, 1997 to
1999; Deputy Director for Research and De-
velopment, 1988 to 1997; and Chief of Re-
search, 1986 to 1988. Ms. Wicks previously
held positions with the Legal Services Cor-
poration and the Georgetown University Law
School.
Ms. Wicks’ led the D.C. Courts through
many changes over the past 19 years. She
oversaw the integration of 19 stand-alone
computer systems into trial court case man-
agement system. She managed the adoption
of long-term planning for capital programs in
IT and facilities, and the development of a
comprehensive education and training pro-
gram. She participated in the extensive growth
of and renovation to the Courts’ buildings and
Judiciary Square campus, and the adoption of
strategic management as a governance struc-
ture. She also assisted with the creation of a
strong management team, leadership prin-
ciples and employee engagement initiatives
that focus on collaborative and integrated judi-
cial and administrative leadership.
I ask the House of Representatives to join
me in recognizing Anne B. Wicks for 33 years
of outstanding service to the District of Colum-
bia Courts. Her steadfast leadership is one of
the reasons the D.C. Courts are highly re-
garded around the world.
RECOGNIZING THE MICHIGAN
PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION
HON. BRENDA L. LAWRENCE
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Madam Speaker, today I
recognize the Michigan Public Health Associa-
tion (MPHA) on the occasion of its 100th anni-
versary. This organization was founded in
1919 and has been advocating for public
health ever since.
For 100 years, the MPHA has worked dili-
gently to eliminate and reduce gaps in health
and health outcomes by improving the quality
of life of Michiganders through advocacy,
knowledge, practice and research. They per-
form valuable work in a field that has an im-
measurable impact on the lives of all Ameri-
cans.
In addition to raising the standard of care
throughout Michigan, the Michigan Public
Health Association works to increase access
to care in all counties of Michigan and assure
that no child is uninsured. MPHA advocates
for good health policy through community or-
ganizing and collaboration.
On this momentous occasion, I want to con-
gratulate the visionary founders and members
of the Michigan Public Health Association, as
well as MPHA’s current President, Ms. Lorena
Disha, and all the leaders of the MPHA for
their important work. I look forward to their
continued work for the health of our nation.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF FRANK
BALON, RECIPIENT OF THE
FREELAND SONS OF ERIN 2019
CITIZEN OF THE YEAR AWARD
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Frank Balon, who was
named the Freeland Sons of Erin 2019 Citizen
of the Year. He was honored on Saturday,
March 16, at the organization’s annual St. Pat-
rick’s Day event.
Frank is a graduate of Freeland High School
and Pennsylvania State University. He worked
as a mechanical engineer at Tobyhanna Army
Depot before retiring after thirty years of serv-
ice in 2013. During his tenure at Tobyhanna,
Frank received the Department of the Army
Achievement Medal for Civilian Service in both
1997 and 2002.
Frank brings something unique to North-
eastern Pennsylvania that is never in ade-
quate supply: the joy of music. He plays trum-
pet in several local ensembles including the
Freeland St. Ann’s Band, where he also
serves as band president, and the Hazleton
Philharmonic Orchestra and Big Band. Frank
is also the leader of the popular brass quintet,
the Hot Tin Roof Brass Band. As part of his
musical career, he has performed the national
anthem for the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre
RailRiders and the Lehigh Valley Iron Pigs Tri-
ple-A baseball teams on many occasions, and
he has additional appearances scheduled for
the upcoming season. Frank’s musical talents
extend to singing as well. He is a choir mem-
ber and cantor at Immaculate Conception
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18MR8.016 E18MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E320 March 18, 2019
Church and an officer and founding member
of the Freeland Community Choir.
Frank is diversely active in his community.
He is a contributing writer for the monthly
Progress Magazine, and he enjoys research-
ing family history and genealogy. Frank enjoys
hiking and is an avid outdoorsman. He also
currently serves as the secretary for the
Hazelton Archery Club.
Stemming from his civilian employment with
the United States Army at Tobyhanna Army
Depot, Frank is dedicated to honoring and
serving our veterans. He is part of the honor
guard and a proud honorary member of Amer-
ican Legion Post 473 and Veterans of Foreign
Wars Post 5010. His community efforts were
recognized by the Freeland American Legion
Post when they named him Citizen of the Year
in 2017.
It is an honor to recognize an outstanding
individual like Frank as he accepts the Citizen
of the Year Award. I am grateful for his many
talents and his willingness to serve the people
of Northeastern Pennsylvania, especially vet-
erans. I wish him the best this St. Patrick’s
Day.
HONORING JOAN ROBERTA
WILLIAMS
HON. JUDY CHU
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, March 18, 2019
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Joan
Roberta Williams, who passed away on Feb-
ruary 20, 2019 at the age of 86.
Mrs. Williams was named Miss Crown City
in 1958 after being nominated by her col-
leagues at Pasadena City Hall. Though she
was supposed to perform the ceremonial du-
ties around the Rose Parade now performed
by the Rose Queen, such as ribbon cuttings
and appearances with the Mayor of Pasadena,
the float on which Mrs. Williams was sched-
uled to appear was cancelled. Mrs. Williams
was denied these honors after city officials
discovered that she was African American.
It wasn’t until New Year’s Day of 2015 that
Mrs. Williams finally appeared in the Rose Pa-
rade, this time in a float honoring ‘‘Inspiring
Stories.’’ After an article appeared in the
Pasadena Weekly detailing her racist treat-
ment nearly half a century earlier, Mrs. Wil-
liams received a formal apology from the
Mayor of Pasadena and was offered the op-
portunity to ride in the parade that had been
denied to her, which she accepted as an op-
portunity for reconciliation.
I had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Williams
in 2014, when the Pasadena non-profit Men
Educating Men About Health honored her at a
gala, where I had the opportunity to present
her with their Woman of the Year Award. In
the years between her original crowning and
her eventual appearance in the Rose Parade,
Mrs. Williams had a long career with Kaiser in
Southern California, including several years in
their Medicare office in my district. She volun-
teered for the Pasadena AIDS Service Center
and with the Pasadena Unified School District,
was honored on the floor of the California
State Assembly, and had three children, four
grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
When she finally made her appearance in
the 2015 Rose Parade, Mrs. Williams said the
experience was ‘‘especially important because
[it pointed] out that with people of goodwill
working to correct these mistakes, change can
come. We hope it won’t take so long, but
when you look at our history, none of it has
happened overnight, none of it has happened
without a fight. The fight goes on.’’ It is my
honor today to recognize Mrs. Williams’ legacy
in that fight.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:08 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18MR8.021 E18MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
REMARKS
D278
Monday, March 18, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
The Senate was not in session and stands ad-
journed until 9:30 a.m., on Tuesday, March 19,
2019.
Committee Meetings
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 28 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1809–1836; and 2 resolutions, H.
Res. 242–243 were introduced. Pages H2754–56
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H2756–57
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H.R. 7, to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 to provide more effective remedies to victims
of discrimination in the payment of wages on the
basis of sex, and for other purposes, with an amend-
ment (H. Rept. 116–18). Page H2754
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Raskin to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H2749
National Committee on Vital and Health Statis-
tics—Reappointment: The Chair announced the
Speaker’s reappointment of the following individual
on the part of the House to the National Committee
on Vital and Health Statistics for a term of four
years: Dr. Vickie M. Mays of Los Angeles, California.
Page H2750
Joint Economic Committee—Appointment: The
Chair announced the Speaker’s appointment of the
following Members on the part of the House to the
Joint Economic Committee: Representatives
Schweikert, LaHood, Marchant, and Herrera Beutler.
Page H2750
Governing Board of the Office of Congressional
Ethics—Appointment: The Chair announced the
Speaker’s appointment of the following individuals
to serve as the Governing Board of the Office of
Congressional Ethics, pursuant to section 4(c) of H.
Res. 6, 116th Congress, and the order of the House
of January 3, 2019: Nominated by the Speaker after
consultation with the Minority Leader: Mr. David
Skaggs of Colorado, Chair; Brigadier General (re-
tired) Belinda Pinckney of Virginia; Ms. Karan
English of Arizona; and Mr. Mike Barnes of Mary-
land, Alternate. Nominated by the Minority Leader
after consultation with the Speaker: Ms. Allison R.
Hayward of Virginia, Co-Chair; Mr. James M.
Eagen, III, of Colorado; Mr. Leon Acton Westmore-
land of Georgia; and Mr. Paul D. Vinovich of the
District of Columbia, Alternate. Page H2750
Presidential Veto Message—Relating to a na-
tional emergency declared by the President on
February 15, 2019: Read a message from the Presi-
dent wherein he transmitted his Memorandum of
Disapproval of H.J. Res. 46, relating to a national
emergency declared by the President on February 15,
2019, and explained his reasons therefore—ordered
printed (H. Doc. 116–22). Page H2750
Without objection, the House postponed further
consideration of the veto message and the joint reso-
lution until the legislative day of March 26, 2019.
Page H2750
Senate Referral: S.J. Res. 7 was held at the desk.
Page H2749
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H2749.
Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no yea and nay
votes, and there were no recorded votes. There were
no quorum calls.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18MR9.REC D18MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D279
March 18, 2019
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 12:10 p.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
MARCH 19, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18MR9.REC D18MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D280 March 18, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Tuesday, March 19
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
2 p.m., Thursday, March 21
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 2 p.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Banks, Jim, Ind., E317
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E316
Cartwright, Matt, Pa., E317, E318, E319
Chu, Judy, Calif., E320
Cook, Paul, Calif., E316
Curtis, John R., Utah, E316
Davis, Susan A., Calif., E315
DeSaulnier, Mark, Calif., E318
Engel, Eliot L., N.Y., E315, E316, E317, E318, E319
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E319
Lawrence, Brenda L., Mich., E319
Lofgren, Zoe, Calif., E315
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E319
Pallone, Frank, Jr., N.J., E315
Quigley, Mike, Ill., E318
Young, Don, Alaska, E317
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Mar 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D18MR9.REC D18MRPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
