Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H3929
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2019 No. 83
Senate
The Senate was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Monday, May 20, 2019, at 3 p.m.
House of Representatives
FRIDAY, MAY 17, 2019
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
We give You thanks, O God, for giv-
ing us another day.
We ask Your blessing this day upon
the Members of the people’s House.
May their labors be graced by Your
gifts of wisdom, patience, and charity,
that truth and righteousness might
prevail in all their proceedings.
We take special note, at the end of
National Peace Officers Memorial
Week, of the 126 peace officers who
have died this past year in the line of
duty. We ask that You grant them
eternal rest for having paid the ulti-
mate price in protecting us.
Give their families consolation in
mourning their loss. May they be as-
sured that we, as a Nation, hold them
in our hearts and understand that we
will always be indebted to them.
May all that is done within the peo-
ple’s House this day be for Your great-
er honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. EVANS. Madam Speaker, pursu-
ant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote
on agreeing to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The SPEAKER. The question is on
the Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. EVANS. Madam Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER. Pursuant to clause 8,
rule XX, further proceedings on this
question will be postponed.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentle-
woman from Georgia (Mrs. MCBATH)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mrs. MCBATH led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to five requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
f
BLACK MOTHERS SUFFER IN
SILENCE
(Mrs. MCBATH asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. MCBATH. Madam Speaker,
Black women are three to four times
more likely to die from pregnancy-re-
lated complications, and this disparity
persists across socioeconomic and edu-
cational levels.
I recently heard the story of a con-
stituent in my district. Her name is
Phiffer. After a failed emergency sur-
gery, she was confined to bedrest 20
weeks into her pregnancy, but her doc-
tor failed to address her mental health.
At 30 weeks, she gave birth to a beau-
tiful baby boy. But for a year after, she
struggled with mental health.
She said: ‘‘I know my story is
unremarkable.’’
Unremarkable. Unremarkable be-
cause mothers are suffering in silence.
Black mothers are suffering in silence
daily.
I am proud to be a founding member
of the Black Maternal Health Caucus
because we need to address this crisis.
I look forward to working with my col-
leagues to make sure that women like
Phiffer receive the proper care that
they need and deserve.
f
HONORING STUART SLIGH, SR.
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Mr.
Stuart Sligh, Sr., for winning the Sa-
vannah Morning News Unsung Hero
Award for 2019.
Presented annually at the Best of
Preps banquet in the First Congres-
sional District of Georgia, the award
honors individuals who unassumingly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17MY7.000 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3930 May 17, 2019
offer their time and resources to local
high school sports teams so they can
perform at the highest level possible.
This year’s recipient, Mr. Sligh, Sr.,
founded the Stuart Sligh Jr. Memorial
Foundation in honor of his 16-year-old
son, a standout athlete at Savannah
Country Day School in both baseball
and football who tragically passed
away in a car accident.
Raising money in Stu Sligh’s mem-
ory, the foundation has contributed
over $50,000 to school athletics across
the Savannah area, as well as other or-
ganizations in the State, like the
YMCA.
The donations have gone toward pur-
chasing pitching machines for baseball
teams, new jerseys for football teams,
and much more.
I thank Mr. Sligh for his work in our
community and congratulate him on
winning the 2019 Unsung Hero Award.
f
LGBTQ AMERICANS DESERVE THE
EQUALITY ACT
(Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York asked and was given permis-
sion to address the House for 1 minute
and to revise and extend her remarks.)
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Madam Speaker, the LGBTQ
community cannot wait any longer for
their full rights and equal protection
to be guaranteed across this country.
We must pass H.R. 5, the Equality
Act.
Only 29 States have laws explicitly
barring discrimination based on sexual
orientation in employment, housing,
and public accommodations. Only 20
States have these protections for gen-
der identity. That is unacceptable.
Being able to be your true self should
not depend on where you live. Your
protections and equal rights should not
depend on where you live.
All LGBTQ Americans deserve noth-
ing less than full rights and equal pro-
tection under the law, and that is ex-
actly what the Equality Act will do.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on this historic
civil rights bill to guarantee full equal-
ity for all. It will be on the floor later.
f
CELEBRATING ARMED FORCES
DAY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, tomorrow, May 18,
our Nation celebrates Armed Forces
Day.
Recognized the third Saturday in
May since President Truman, Armed
Forces Day is a time for us to pay spe-
cial tribute to the brave men and
women serving in all areas of the mili-
tary.
It is also a time to educate the public
on the impacts that our servicemem-
bers have on communities across the
country.
As the proud father of a soldier, I am
endlessly grateful for the selfless ac-
tions of our servicemembers and their
devotion to country.
Our servicemen and -women serve
throughout the world as a beacon of
light, carrying with them our values of
liberty and justice. This service is
often done on foreign lands and away
from family and friends, but their will-
ingness to defeat any threat that seeks
to harm American values and interests
never wavers.
Madam Speaker, with this day, we
hope to show our appreciation so those
honored are aware of how much we
think of them and their sacrifices.
f
BUY CERTIFIED AMERICAN-GROWN
FLOWERS
(Mr. CARBAJAL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CARBAJAL. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the importance
of buying American-grown flowers.
Whether it is celebrating a wedding
or graduation, or sending condolences,
flowers have been used to mark signifi-
cant occasions for thousands of years.
I have seen the value this industry
adds to our economy and communities
during my visits with our hardworking
central coast farmers and workers. The
cut flower industry generates thou-
sands of jobs and produces $1.2 billion
in economic activity each year through
flower farmers, distributors, and flo-
rists.
California grows an astonishing 75
percent of American-grown flowers, yet
only a fraction of the flowers sold
across the country were grown here.
That must change.
This week, Senator FEINSTEIN and I
introduced a resolution to designate
July as American Grown Flower Month
and to encourage consumers to buy
flowers with the ‘‘Certified American
Grown’’ label.
By passing H.R. 379, we will honor
the beauty this industry brings to our
homes year-round and help keep our
American-grown flower industry pros-
perous.
I urge my colleagues to join us in
this effort.
f
MOURNING THE PASSING OF
STEVE YOUNG
(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, I
rise today with a heavy heart, as the
city of Kennewick and the greater Tri-
Cities community mourns the loss of
Councilman and former Mayor Steve
Young.
Steve held the distinction as the sec-
ond longest-serving mayor in the long
history of the city of Kennewick, serv-
ing the people for nearly a decade in
that role. But his service went far be-
yond those years.
Outside of his continued service as a
councilman, Steve’s footprint
stretched far and wide, across not only
the city of Kennewick and the Tri-Cit-
ies but the entire State of Washington.
His vision, his advocacy, and his pas-
sion for serving the community will
continue on through the many con-
tributions he provided for the Tri-Cit-
ies.
The long list of community organiza-
tions, nonprofits, and local and State
boards on which Steve served rightly
demonstrate just how passionate he
was about serving his community.
My deepest condolences go out to
Steve’s wife, Anita. My thoughts and
prayers go out to her and the entire
Young family.
May my friend rest in peace. We will
miss him.
f
VOTE FOR EQUALITY
(Ms. VELÁZQUEZ asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, a
mile from my district sits The Stone-
wall Inn, the site where, five decades
ago, Americans took to the streets to
fight back against hate and launch the
modern movement for LGBT rights.
In a few hours, this House will pay
homage to that struggle as we vote on
historic legislation to protect the fun-
damental rights of millions of Ameri-
cans.
The Equality Act will extend anti-
discrimination protections to LGBTQ
Americans. Sadly, from education to
housing to credit, in so many areas,
discrimination based on sexual orienta-
tion or identity remains legal. That is
wrong, and this bill will, at long last,
change that.
Madam Speaker, this is an issue of
moral character. It speaks to who we
are as a Nation.
For us individually, this vote speaks
to who we are not just as legislators
but as human beings. I implore all my
colleagues to do what you know is
right in your heart.
Vote for equality. Vote for respect,
kindness, and love. Vote to end bigotry
and discrimination.
Vote ‘‘yes’’ on the Equality Act.
f
COMBATING BDS AND ANTI-
SEMITISM
(Mrs. WALORSKI asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to stand with America’s
friend and ally Israel against a rising
tide of anti-Semitism and the dan-
gerous Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions
movement, or BDS movement.
BDS is a form of economic warfare
aimed at marginalizing the world’s
only Jewish state. This radical agenda
rejects Israel’s right to self-defense and
seeks to destroy its economy.
The House must stand with Israel
and pass H.R. 336, the Strengthening
America’s Security in the Middle East
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.002 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3931
May 17, 2019
Act. This commonsense bill would
combat the BDS movement by sup-
porting State and local governments
that choose not to contract with com-
panies that discriminate against Israel.
It already passed the Senate with
strong bipartisan support. Sadly,
Speaker PELOSI refuses to allow a vote.
I am a proud cosponsor of H.R. 336.
This week, I signed a discharge peti-
tion to ensure it gets a vote on the
House floor.
Madam Speaker, Republicans and
Democrats must send a strong signal
against anti-Semitism and the anti-
Israel BDS movement. We need a vote
on H.R. 336.
f
b 0915
LET AMERICANS BE FREE TO BE
THEMSELVES
(Mr. EVANS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. EVANS. Madam Speaker, the
new House Democratic majority has
passed several important bills, includ-
ing bills to protect Americans’
healthcare. One of those important
bills coming up is the Equality Act.
First as a State legislator and now as
a Member of Congress, I have supported
the equal rights for LGBTQ people for
over 20-plus years.
Today, in much of America, LGBTQ
people can get married on Sunday and
fired on Monday. Our fellow Americans
should not have to fear losing a job or
an apartment simply because of who
they are.
I am proud that this House will pass
the Equality Act today. I urge the Sen-
ate to join us in passing this bill. Let
fellow Americans be free to be them-
selves, free from discrimination; and
from sea to shining sea, let freedom
ring.
f
COMMENDING THE FEDERAL
RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise to commend the Federal Railroad
Administration and the Trump admin-
istration for putting a stop to the
wasteful Federal spending on Califor-
nia’s high-speed rail boondoggle. This
will save nearly $1 billion that can be
used for anything else to help Ameri-
cans’ transportation system.
At a time when tax increases on
every mile you drive are being con-
templated ostensibly for our highway
needs, how can we keep wasting dollars
on a project that ‘‘has repeatedly failed
to comply with the terms of the 2010
agreement and has failed to make rea-
sonable progress’’?
It is no longer even a high-speed
train project nor does it even connect
San Francisco to L.A. but, instead, ter-
minates in an almond orchard some-
where north of Bakersfield.
It has tripled in price since 2008,
when put in front of the California vot-
ers, and is still at least $70 billion short
of the $100 billion tripled price or more.
That $70 billion will not be coming
from this Congress.
Let’s channel these hard-earned tax
dollars into highways people need,
want, and can actually use, or water
storage, or just about anything else.
f
EQUALITY ACT
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, pur-
suant to House Resolution 377, I call up
the bill (H.R. 5) to prohibit discrimina-
tion on the basis of sex, gender iden-
tity, and sexual orientation, and for
other purposes, and ask for its imme-
diate consideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
CRAIG). Pursuant to House Resolution
377, the amendment in the nature of a
substitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, printed in the
bill, is adopted, and the bill, as amend-
ed, is considered read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 5
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Equality Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the following:
(1) Discrimination can occur on the basis of
the sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or
pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical con-
dition of an individual, as well as because of
sex-based stereotypes. Each of these factors
alone can serve as the basis for discrimination,
and each is a form of sex discrimination.
(2) A single instance of discrimination may
have more than one basis. For example, dis-
crimination against a married same-sex couple
could be based on the sex stereotype that mar-
riage should only be between heterosexual cou-
ples, the sexual orientation of the two individ-
uals in the couple, or both. Discrimination
against a pregnant lesbian could be based on
her sex, her sexual orientation, her pregnancy,
or on the basis of multiple factors.
(3) Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and
queer (referred to as ‘‘LGBTQ’’) people com-
monly experience discrimination in securing ac-
cess to public accommodations—including res-
taurants, senior centers, stores, places of or es-
tablishments that provide entertainment, health
care facilities, shelters, government offices,
youth service providers including adoption and
foster care providers, and transportation. Forms
of discrimination include the exclusion and de-
nial of entry, unequal or unfair treatment, har-
assment, and violence. This discrimination pre-
vents the full participation of LGBTQ people in
society and disrupts the free flow of commerce.
(4) Women also have faced discrimination in
many establishments such as stores and res-
taurants, and places or establishments that pro-
vide other goods or services, such as entertain-
ment or transportation, including sexual harass-
ment, differential pricing for substantially simi-
lar products and services, and denial of services
because they are pregnant or breastfeeding.
(5) Many employers already and continue to
take proactive steps, beyond those required by
some States and localities, to ensure they are
fostering positive and respectful cultures for all
employees. Many places of public accommoda-
tion also recognize the economic imperative to
offer goods and services to as many consumers
as possible.
(6) Regular and ongoing discrimination
against LGBTQ people, as well as women, in ac-
cessing public accommodations contributes to
negative social and economic outcomes, and in
the case of public accommodations operated by
State and local governments, abridges individ-
uals’ constitutional rights.
(7) The discredited practice known as ‘‘con-
version therapy’’ is a form of discrimination
that harms LGBTQ people by undermining indi-
viduals sense of self worth, increasing suicide
ideation and substance abuse, exacerbating fam-
ily conflict, and contributing to second class
status.
(8) Both LGBTQ people and women face wide-
spread discrimination in employment and var-
ious services, including by entities that receive
Federal financial assistance. Such discrimina-
tion—
(A) is particularly troubling and inappro-
priate for programs and services funded wholly
or in part by the Federal Government;
(B) undermines national progress toward
equal treatment regardless of sex, sexual ori-
entation, or gender identity; and
(C) is inconsistent with the constitutional
principle of equal protection under the Four-
teenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
(9) Federal courts have widely recognized
that, in enacting the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
Congress validly invoked its powers under the
Fourteenth Amendment to provide a full range
of remedies in response to persistent, wide-
spread, and pervasive discrimination by both
private and government actors.
(10) Discrimination by State and local govern-
ments on the basis of sexual orientation or gen-
der identity in employment, housing, and public
accommodations, and in programs and activities
receiving Federal financial assistance, violates
the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. In many circumstances, such discrimina-
tion also violates other constitutional rights
such as those of liberty and privacy under the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amend-
ment.
(11) Individuals who are LGBTQ, or are per-
ceived to be LGBTQ, have been subjected to a
history and pattern of persistent, widespread,
and pervasive discrimination on the bases of
sexual orientation and gender identity by both
private sector and Federal, State, and local gov-
ernment actors, including in employment, hous-
ing, and public accommodations, and in pro-
grams and activities receiving Federal financial
assistance. An explicit and comprehensive na-
tional solution is needed to address such dis-
crimination, which has sometimes resulted in vi-
olence or death, including the full range of rem-
edies available under the Civil Rights Act of
1964.
(12) Numerous provisions of Federal law ex-
pressly prohibit discrimination on the basis of
sex, and Federal agencies and courts have cor-
rectly interpreted these prohibitions on sex dis-
crimination to include discrimination based on
sexual orientation, gender identity, and sex
stereotypes. In particular, the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission correctly inter-
preted title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in
Macy v. Holder, Baldwin v. Foxx, and Lusardi
v. McHugh.
(13) The absence of explicit prohibitions of dis-
crimination on the basis of sexual orientation
and gender identity under Federal statutory law
has created uncertainty for employers and other
entities covered by Federal nondiscrimination
laws and caused unnecessary hardships for
LGBTQ individuals.
(14) LGBTQ people often face discrimination
when seeking to rent or purchase housing, as
well as in every other aspect of obtaining and
maintaining housing. LGBTQ people in same-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.004 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3932 May 17, 2019
sex relationships are often discriminated against
when two names associated with one gender ap-
pear on a housing application, and transgender
people often encounter discrimination when
credit checks or inquiries reveal a former name.
(15) National surveys, including a study com-
missioned by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, show that housing dis-
crimination against LGBTQ people is very prev-
alent. For instance, when same-sex couples in-
quire about housing that is available for rent,
they are less likely to receive positive responses
from landlords. A national matched-pair testing
investigation found that nearly one-half of
same-sex couples face adverse, differential treat-
ment when seeking elder housing. According to
other studies, transgender people have half the
homeownership rate of non-transgender people
and about 1 in 5 transgender people experience
homelessness.
(16) As a result of the absence of explicit pro-
hibitions against discrimination on the basis of
sexual orientation and gender identity, credit
applicants who are LGBTQ, or perceived to be
LGBTQ, have unequal opportunities to establish
credit. LGBTQ people can experience being de-
nied a mortgage, credit card, student loan, or
many other types of credit simply because of
their sexual orientation or gender identity.
(17) Numerous studies demonstrate that
LGBTQ people, especially transgender people
and women, are economically disadvantaged
and at a higher risk for poverty compared with
other groups of people. For example, older
women in same-sex couples have twice the pov-
erty rate of older different-sex couples.
(18) The right to an impartial jury of one’s
peers and the reciprocal right to jury service are
fundamental to the free and democratic system
of justice in the United States and are based in
the Bill of Rights. There is, however, an unfor-
tunate and long-documented history in the
United States of attorneys discriminating
against LGBTQ individuals, or those perceived
to be LGBTQ, in jury selection. Failure to bar
peremptory challenges based on the actual or
perceived sexual orientation or gender identity
of an individual not only erodes a fundamental
right, duty, and obligation of being a citizen of
the United States, but also unfairly creates a
second class of citizenship for LGBTQ victims,
witnesses, plaintiffs, and defendants.
(19) Numerous studies document the shortage
of qualified and available homes for the 437,000
youth in the child welfare system and the nega-
tive outcomes for the many youth who live in
group care as opposed to a loving home or who
age out without a permanent family. Although
same-sex couples are 7 times more likely to foster
or adopt than their different-sex counterparts,
many child placing agencies refuse to serve
same-sex couples and LGBTQ individuals. This
has resulted in a reduction of the pool of quali-
fied and available homes for youth in the child
welfare system who need placement on a tem-
porary or permanent basis. Barring discrimina-
tion in foster care and adoption will increase
the number of homes available to foster children
waiting for foster and adoptive families.
(20) LGBTQ youth are overrepresented in the
foster care system by at least a factor of two and
report twice the rate of poor treatment while in
care compared to their non-LGBTQ counter-
parts. LGBTQ youth in foster care have a high-
er average number of placements, higher likeli-
hood of living in a group home, and higher rates
of hospitalization for emotional reasons and ju-
venile justice involvement than their non-
LGBTQ peers because of the high level of bias
and discrimination that they face and the dif-
ficulty of finding affirming foster placements.
Further, due to their physical distance from
friends and family, traumatic experiences, and
potentially unstable living situations, all youth
involved with child welfare are at risk for being
targeted by traffickers seeking to exploit chil-
dren. Barring discrimination in child welfare
services will ensure improved treatment and out-
comes for LGBTQ foster children.
(b) PURPOSE.—It is the purpose of this Act to
expand as well as clarify, confirm and create
greater consistency in the protections and rem-
edies against discrimination on the basis of all
covered characteristics and to provide guidance
and notice to individuals, organizations, cor-
porations, and agencies regarding their obliga-
tions under the law.
SEC. 3. PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
(a) PROHIBITION ON DISCRIMINATION OR SEG-
REGATION IN PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.—Sec-
tion 201 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C.
2000a) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘sex (in-
cluding sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity),’’ before ‘‘or national origin’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘stadium’’
and all that follows and inserting ‘‘stadium or
other place of or establishment that provides ex-
hibition, entertainment, recreation, exercise,
amusement, public gathering, or public dis-
play;’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as para-
graph (6); and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(4) any establishment that provides a good,
service, or program, including a store, shopping
center, online retailer or service provider, salon,
bank, gas station, food bank, service or care
center, shelter, travel agency, or funeral parlor,
or establishment that provides health care, ac-
counting, or legal services;
‘‘(5) any train service, bus service, car service,
taxi service, airline service, station, depot, or
other place of or establishment that provides
transportation service; and’’.
(b) PROHIBITION ON DISCRIMINATION OR SEG-
REGATION UNDER LAW.—Section 202 of such Act
(42 U.S.C. 2000a–1) is amended by inserting ‘‘sex
(including sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity),’’ before ‘‘or national origin’’.
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Title II of such
Act (42 U.S.C. 2000a et seq.) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 208. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
‘‘A reference in this title to an establishment—
‘‘(1) shall be construed to include an indi-
vidual whose operations affect commerce and
who is a provider of a good, service, or program;
and
‘‘(2) shall not be construed to be limited to a
physical facility or place.’’.
SEC. 4. DESEGREGATION OF PUBLIC FACILITIES.
Section 301(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
(42 U.S.C. 2000b(a)) is amended by inserting
‘‘sex (including sexual orientation and gender
identity),’’ before ‘‘or national origin’’.
SEC. 5. DESEGREGATION OF PUBLIC EDUCATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 401(b) of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000c(b)) is amend-
ed by inserting ‘‘(including sexual orientation
and gender identity),’’ before ‘‘or national ori-
gin’’.
(b) CIVIL ACTIONS BY THE ATTORNEY GEN-
ERAL.—Section 407 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 2000c–
6) is amended, in subsection (a)(2), by inserting
‘‘(including sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity),’’ before ‘‘or national origin’’.
(c) CLASSIFICATION AND ASSIGNMENT.—Section
410 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 2000c–9) is amended
by inserting ‘‘(including sexual orientation and
gender identity),’’ before ‘‘or national origin’’.
SEC. 6. FEDERAL FUNDING.
Section 601 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42
U.S.C. 2000d) is amended by inserting ‘‘sex (in-
cluding sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity),’’ before ‘‘or national origin,’’.
SEC. 7. EMPLOYMENT.
(a) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 is amended by inserting
after section 701 (42 U.S.C. 2000e) the following:
‘‘SEC. 701A. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
‘‘Section 1106 shall apply to this title except
that for purposes of that application, a ref-
erence in that section to an ‘unlawful practice’
shall be considered to be a reference to an ‘un-
lawful employment practice’.’’.
(b) UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES.—Sec-
tion 703 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C.
2000e–2) is amended—
(1) in the section header, by striking ‘‘SEX,’’
and inserting ‘‘SEX (INCLUDING SEXUAL ORIENTA-
TION AND GENDER IDENTITY),’’;
(2) except in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘sex,’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘sex (in-
cluding sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity),’’; and
(3) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ‘‘enter-
prise,’’ and inserting ‘‘enterprise, if, in a situa-
tion in which sex is a bona fide occupational
qualification, individuals are recognized as
qualified in accordance with their gender iden-
tity,’’.
(c) OTHER UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT PRAC-
TICES.—Section 704(b) of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e–3(b)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘sex,’’ the first place it appears
and inserting ‘‘sex (including sexual orientation
and gender identity),’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘employment.’’ and inserting
‘‘employment, if, in a situation in which sex is
a bona fide occupational qualification, individ-
uals are recognized as qualified in accordance
with their gender identity.’’.
(d) CLAIMS.—Section 706(g)(2)(A) of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 (2000e–5(g)(2)(A)) is amended
by striking ‘‘sex,’’ and inserting ‘‘sex (including
sexual orientation and gender identity),’’.
(e) EMPLOYMENT BY FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.—
Section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42
U.S.C. 2000e–16) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘sex,’’ and
inserting ‘‘sex (including sexual orientation and
gender identity),’’; and
(2) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘sex’’ and in-
serting ‘‘sex (including sexual orientation and
gender identity),’’.
(f) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE RIGHTS ACT OF
1991.—The Government Employee Rights Act of
1991 (42 U.S.C. 2000e–16a et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 301(b), by striking ‘‘sex,’’ and in-
serting ‘‘sex (including sexual orientation and
gender identity),’’;
(2) in section 302(a)(1), by striking ‘‘sex,’’ and
inserting ‘‘sex (including sexual orientation and
gender identity),’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 305. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND
CLAIMS.
‘‘Sections 1101(b), 1106, and 1107 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 shall apply to this title except
that for purposes of that application, a ref-
erence in that section 1106 to ‘race, color, reli-
gion, sex (including sexual orientation and gen-
der identity), or national origin’ shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to ‘race, color, religion,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, na-
tional origin, age, or disability’.’’.
(g) CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF
1995.—The Congressional Accountability Act of
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 201(a)(1) (2 U.S.C. 1311(a)(1)) by
inserting ‘‘(including sexual orientation and
gender identity),’’ before ‘‘or national origin,’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end of title II (42 U.S.C.
1311 et seq.) the following:
‘‘SEC. 208. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND
CLAIMS.
‘‘Sections 1101(b), 1106, and 1107 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 shall apply to section 201
(and remedial provisions of this Act related to
section 201) except that for purposes of that ap-
plication, a reference in that section 1106 to
‘race, color, religion, sex (including sexual ori-
entation and gender identity), or national ori-
gin’ shall be considered to be a reference to
‘race, color, religion, sex (including sexual ori-
entation and gender identity), national origin,
age, or disability’.’’.
(h) CIVIL SERVICE REFORM ACT OF 1978.—
Chapter 23 of title 5, United States Code, is
amended—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A17MY7.002 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3933
May 17, 2019
(1) in section 2301(b)(2), by striking ‘‘sex,’’
and inserting ‘‘sex (including sexual orientation
and gender identity),’’;
(2) in section 2302—
(A) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by inserting ‘‘(in-
cluding sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity),’’ before ‘‘or national origin,’’; and
(B) in subsection (d)(1), by inserting ‘‘(includ-
ing sexual orientation and gender identity),’’
before ‘‘or national origin;’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 2307. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND
CLAIMS.
‘‘Sections 1101(b), 1106, and 1107 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 shall apply to this chapter
(and remedial provisions of this title related to
this chapter) except that for purposes of that
application, a reference in that section 1106 to
‘race, color, religion, sex (including sexual ori-
entation and gender identity), or national ori-
gin’ shall be considered to be a reference to
‘race, color, religion, sex (including sexual ori-
entation and gender identity), national origin,
age, a handicapping condition, marital status,
or political affiliation’.’’.
SEC. 8. INTERVENTION.
Section 902 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42
U.S.C. 2000h–2) is amended by inserting ‘‘(in-
cluding sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity),’’ before ‘‘or national origin,’’.
SEC. 9. MISCELLANEOUS.
Title XI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is
amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 1101 through 1104
(42 U.S.C. 2000h et seq.) and sections 1105 and
1106 (42 U.S.C. 2000h–5, 2000h–6) as sections 1102
through 1105 and sections 1108 and 1109, respec-
tively;
(2) by inserting after the title heading the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 1101. DEFINITIONS AND RULES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In titles II, III, IV, VI,
VII, and IX (referred to individually in sections
1106 and 1107 as a ‘covered title’):
‘‘(1) RACE; COLOR; RELIGION; SEX; SEXUAL ORI-
ENTATION; GENDER IDENTITY; NATIONAL ORIGIN.—
The term ‘race’, ‘color’, ‘religion’, ‘sex’ (includ-
ing ‘sexual orientation’ and ‘gender identity’),
or ‘national origin’, used with respect to an in-
dividual, includes—
‘‘(A) the race, color, religion, sex (including
sexual orientation and gender identity), or na-
tional origin, respectively, of another person
with whom the individual is associated or has
been associated; and
‘‘(B) a perception or belief, even if inaccurate,
concerning the race, color, religion, sex (includ-
ing sexual orientation and gender identity), or
national origin, respectively, of the individual.
‘‘(2) GENDER IDENTITY.—The term ‘gender
identity’ means the gender-related identity, ap-
pearance, mannerisms, or other gender-related
characteristics of an individual, regardless of
the individual’s designated sex at birth.
‘‘(3) INCLUDING.—The term ‘including’ means
including, but not limited to, consistent with the
term’s standard meaning in Federal law.
‘‘(4) SEX.—The term ‘sex’ includes—
‘‘(A) a sex stereotype;
‘‘(B) pregnancy, childbirth, or a related med-
ical condition;
‘‘(C) sexual orientation or gender identity;
and
‘‘(D) sex characteristics, including intersex
traits.
‘‘(5) SEXUAL ORIENTATION.—The term ‘sexual
orientation’ means homosexuality, hetero-
sexuality, or bisexuality.
‘‘(b) RULES.—In a covered title referred to in
subsection (a)—
‘‘(1) (with respect to sex) pregnancy, child-
birth, or a related medical condition shall not
receive less favorable treatment than other
physical conditions; and
‘‘(2) (with respect to gender identity) an indi-
vidual shall not be denied access to a shared fa-
cility, including a restroom, a locker room, and
a dressing room, that is in accordance with the
individual’s gender identity.’’; and
(3) by inserting after section 1105 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 1106. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
‘‘(a) SEX.—Nothing in section 1101 or the pro-
visions of a covered title incorporating a term
defined or a rule specified in that section shall
be construed—
‘‘(1) to limit the protection against an unlaw-
ful practice on the basis of pregnancy, child-
birth, or a related medical condition provided by
section 701(k); or
‘‘(2) to limit the protection against an unlaw-
ful practice on the basis of sex available under
any provision of Federal law other than that
covered title, prohibiting a practice on the basis
of sex.
‘‘(b) CLAIMS AND REMEDIES NOT PRE-
CLUDED.—Nothing in section 1101 or a covered
title shall be construed to limit the claims or
remedies available to any individual for an un-
lawful practice on the basis of race, color, reli-
gion, sex (including sexual orientation and gen-
der identity), or national origin including claims
brought pursuant to section 1979 or 1980 of the
Revised Statutes (42 U.S.C. 1983, 1985) or any
other law, including a Federal law amended by
the Equality Act, regulation, or policy.
‘‘(c) NO NEGATIVE INFERENCE.—Nothing in
section 1101 or a covered title shall be construed
to support any inference that any Federal law
prohibiting a practice on the basis of sex does
not prohibit discrimination on the basis of preg-
nancy, childbirth, or a related medical condi-
tion, sexual orientation, gender identity, or a
sex stereotype.
‘‘SEC. 1107. CLAIMS.
‘‘The Religious Freedom Restoration Act of
1993 (42 U.S.C. 2000bb et seq.) shall not provide
a claim concerning, or a defense to a claim
under, a covered title, or provide a basis for
challenging the application or enforcement of a
covered title.’’.
SEC. 10. HOUSING.
(a) FAIR HOUSING ACT.—The Fair Housing
Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 802 (42 U.S.C. 3602), by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(p) ‘Gender identity’, ‘sex’, and ‘sexual ori-
entation’ have the meanings given those terms
in section 1101(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
‘‘(q) ‘Race’, ‘color’, ‘religion’, ‘sex’ (including
‘sexual orientation’ and ‘gender identity’),
‘handicap’, ‘familial status’, or ‘national ori-
gin’, used with respect to an individual, in-
cludes—
‘‘(1) the race, color, religion, sex (including
sexual orientation and gender identity), handi-
cap, familial status, or national origin, respec-
tively, of another person with whom the indi-
vidual is associated or has been associated; and
‘‘(2) a perception or belief, even if inaccurate,
concerning the race, color, religion, sex (includ-
ing sexual orientation and gender identity),
handicap, familial status, or national origin, re-
spectively, of the individual.’’;
(2) in section 804, by inserting ‘‘(including
sexual orientation and gender identity),’’ after
‘‘sex,’’ each place that term appears;
(3) in section 805, by inserting ‘‘(including
sexual orientation and gender identity),’’ after
‘‘sex,’’ each place that term appears;
(4) in section 806, by inserting ‘‘(including
sexual orientation and gender identity),’’ after
‘‘sex,’’;
(5) in section 808(e)(6), by inserting ‘‘(includ-
ing sexual orientation and gender identity),’’
after ‘‘sex,’’; and
(6) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 821. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
‘‘Sections 1101(b) and 1106 of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 shall apply to this title and section
901, except that for purposes of that application,
a reference in that section 1101(b) or 1106 to a
‘covered title’ shall be considered a reference to
‘this title and section 901’.
‘‘SEC. 822. CLAIMS.
‘‘Section 1107 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
shall apply to this title and section 901, except
that for purposes of that application, a ref-
erence in that section 1107 to a ‘covered title’
shall be considered a reference to ‘this title and
section 901’.’’.
(b) PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR
HOUSING CASES.—Section 901 of the Civil Rights
Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3631) is amended by in-
serting ‘‘(including sexual orientation (as such
term is defined in section 802 of this Act) and
gender identity (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 802 of this Act)),’’ after ‘‘sex,’’ each place
that term appears.
SEC. 11. EQUAL CREDIT OPPORTUNITY.
(a) PROHIBITED DISCRIMINATION.—Section
701(a)(1) of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act
(15 U.S.C. 1691(a)(1)) is amended by inserting
‘‘(including sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity),’’ after ‘‘sex’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Section 702 of the Equal
Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691a) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as
subsections (h) and (i), respectively;
(2) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) The terms ‘gender identity’, ‘sex’, and
‘sexual orientation’ have the meanings given
those terms in section 1101(a) of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964.
‘‘(g) The term ‘race’, ‘color’, ‘religion’, ‘na-
tional origin’, ‘sex’ (including ‘sexual orienta-
tion’ and ‘gender identity’), ‘marital status’, or
‘age’, used with respect to an individual, in-
cludes—
‘‘(1) the race, color, religion, national origin,
sex (including sexual orientation and gender
identity), marital status, or age, respectively, of
another person with whom the individual is as-
sociated or has been associated; and
‘‘(2) a perception or belief, even if inaccurate,
concerning the race, color, religion, national or-
igin, sex (including sexual orientation and gen-
der identity), marital status, or age, respec-
tively, of the individual.’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(j) Sections 1101(b) and 1106 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 shall apply to this title, ex-
cept that for purposes of that application—
‘‘(1) a reference in those sections to a ‘covered
title’ shall be considered a reference to ‘this
title’; and
‘‘(2) paragraph (1) of such section 1101(b)
shall apply with respect to all aspects of a credit
transaction.’’.
(c) RELATION TO STATE LAWS.—Section 705(a)
of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C.
1691d(a)) is amended by inserting ‘‘(including
sexual orientation and gender identity),’’ after
‘‘sex’’.
(d) CIVIL LIABILITY.—Section 706 of the Equal
Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691e) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(l) Section 1107 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
shall apply to this title, except that for purposes
of that application, a reference in that section
to a ‘covered title’ shall be considered a ref-
erence to ‘this title’.’’.
SEC. 12. JURIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 121 of title 28,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in section 1862, by inserting ‘‘(including
sexual orientation and gender identity),’’ after
‘‘sex,’’;
(2) in section 1867(e), in the second sentence,
by inserting ‘‘(including sexual orientation and
gender identity),’’ after ‘‘sex,’’;
(3) in section 1869—
(A) in subsection (j), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(B) in subsection (k), by striking the period at
the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(l) ‘gender identity’, ‘sex’, and ‘sexual ori-
entation’ have the meanings given such terms
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A17MY7.002 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3934 May 17, 2019
under section 1101(a) of the Civil Rights Act of
1964; and
‘‘(m) ‘race’, ‘color’, ‘religion’, ‘sex’ (including
‘sexual orientation’ and ‘gender identity’), ‘eco-
nomic status’, or ‘national origin’, used with re-
spect to an individual, includes—
‘‘(1) the race, color, religion, sex (including
sexual orientation and gender identity), eco-
nomic status, or national origin, respectively, of
another person with whom the individual is as-
sociated or has been associated; and
‘‘(2) a perception or belief, even if inaccurate,
concerning the race, color, religion, sex (includ-
ing sexual orientation and gender identity), eco-
nomic status, or national origin, respectively, of
the individual.’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘§ 1879. Rules of construction and claims
‘‘Sections 1101(b), 1106, and 1107 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 shall apply to this chapter,
except that for purposes of that application, a
reference in those sections to a ‘covered title’
shall be considered a reference to ‘this chap-
ter’.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of sections for chapter 121 of
title 28, United States Code, is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘1879. Rules of construction and claims.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill,
as amended, shall be debatable for 90
minutes, equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minor-
ity member of the Committee on the
Judiciary.
The gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER) and the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. MCCLINTOCK) each will con-
trol 45 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on H.R. 5.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself 3 minutes.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in
strong support of H.R. 5, the Equality
Act, which amends the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 and other core civil rights stat-
utes to explicitly prohibit discrimina-
tion on the basis of sexual orientation
and gender identity. The bill would
also strengthen nondiscrimination pro-
tections for women and others.
Today is a historic day: the first time
a comprehensive LGBTQ civil rights
bill has come to the floor of the House.
This long overdue legislation will pro-
vide millions of LGBTQ Americans pro-
tections from being denied medical
care, fired from their jobs, or thrown
out of their homes simply because of
who they are.
Much of the history of the United
States has been about expanding the
definition of who is understood to be
included when the Declaration of Inde-
pendence says, ‘‘all men are created
equal.’’
When these words were first written,
that phrase did not include Black and
Latino men; it did not include Native
Americans; it did not include women;
and it certainly did not include LGBTQ
individuals.
At this moment, we have an oppor-
tunity to continue our march towards
justice, to enshrine in our Nation’s
laws protections for marginalized com-
munities to ensure that everyone can
fully participate in key areas of life
and to provide them recourse in the
face of discrimination.
Despite what opponents to the bill
may say, we know these protections
can work. We know that our existing
Federal nondiscrimination laws have
helped millions of Americans.
We know that protections for sexual
orientation and gender identity have
worked in more than 20 States and
that, in these places, women still have
rights, religious freedom is still pro-
tected, parents are still involved in
their children’s healthcare, and doctors
are still free to exercise their profes-
sional medical judgment. Transgender
individuals play sports, and sometimes
they win and sometimes they lose, just
like everyone else.
But the ability to have a job, to re-
ceive medical care, or to rent a home
should not depend on who someone is
or where they happen to live. We can-
not accept the situation where anyone
in this country can get married on
Sunday and legally be fired on Monday
because of who they love.
For decades, the LGBTQ community
has been coming to Congress to tell us
their stories. We have heard of
transgender women being fired from
their jobs, lesbian couples being kicked
out of their homes, and gay men being
denied medical care. It is time we stop
asking them to come to the Capitol
just to defend their existence.
The question before us is not whether
the LGBTQ community faces out-
rageous and immoral discrimination,
for the record shows that it clearly
does. The question is whether we, as
Congress, are willing to take action to
do something about it. The answer goes
straight to the heart of who we want to
be as a country, and today, that answer
must be a resounding and unequivocal
‘‘yes.’’
To the thousands of LGBTQ people
who have shared their stories, I say:
Thank you for your bravery. Thank
you for reliving your trauma to help
build the case for this legislation—to
build the case for expanding freedom in
this country.
We hear you; we see you; we believe
you. And we will continue fighting for
you.
I thank the gentleman from Rhode
Island (Representative CICILLINE) for
his tireless leadership in introducing
this bill and helping to shepherd it
through the legislative process.
I urge my colleagues to support this
landmark legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, there are some fun-
damental principles that we all ought
to be able to agree on: Don’t hurt other
people; respect the right of doctors to
do no harm; respect the right of par-
ents to protect their children.
Now, the bill before us today could
have affirmed the right of every adult
to declare their own gender consistent
with these principles. Unfortunately, it
violates these principles in the most
fundamental ways. And this isn’t spec-
ulation. Many States have already
adopted similar laws, so we can see,
firsthand, the result of them.
This bill harms people in so many
ways: destroying safe spaces for
women, undermining women-owned
businesses, intimidating the free exer-
cise of conscience. But let me con-
centrate on one aspect, the destructive
impact it has on women’s sports.
Wherever these laws are imposed, bi-
ological males have begun to dominate
women’s competitions. Listen to 16-
year-old Selina Soule of Connecticut.
She tells the story of qualifying for the
prestigious Middletown Invite.
She says this: ‘‘Eight of us lined up
at the starting line . . . but when six of
us were only about three-quarters into
the race, two girls were already across
the finish line. . . . What just hap-
pened? Two boys identifying as girls
happened. Fair is no longer the norm.
The chance to advance, the chance to
win has been all over for us. . . . I
missed the chance to compete in the
New England Championship this past
season because of this.’’
And she goes on to say: ‘‘The CAAC
won’t listen to my voice, but I hope
Congress will. . . . H.R. 5 will endanger
women and girls of all ages by opening
up every sports team in the country to
any male who self-identifies as female.
This policy will take away our medals,
records, scholarships, and dreams.’’
And we know this will happen be-
cause it already has. And we know it is
the intent of the bill because Congress-
man STEUBE offered an amendment:
‘‘Nothing in this act may be construed
to require a biological female to face
competition from a biological male in
any sporting event.’’ The Democrats
voted it down on a party-line vote.
Sorry, Selina, but if you are looking
for fairness from this majority, you
have come to the wrong place.
Now, this bill could have protected
the professional judgment of doctors,
but it doesn’t. At our hearing on May 1,
Mr. CICILLINE said: ‘‘What H.R. 5 does
is to ensure that transgender people,
including young people, are not denied
care because of their gender identity.’’
Well, what is care for gender iden-
tity? Cross-sex hormones, puberty
blockers, and surgery. Refuse to pro-
vide it on the self-diagnosis of a child
and you have just broken the law.
Indeed, Johns Hopkins University,
which pioneered sex reassignment sur-
gery, stopped the practice because they
saw the long-term harm it did to their
patients.
And we know that is the intent of the
bill as well, because I offered an
amendment: ‘‘Nothing in this act shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17MY7.002 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3935
May 17, 2019
be construed to require healthcare pro-
viders to affirm the self-professed gen-
der identity of a minor,’’ and the
Democrats voted it down on a straight
party-line vote.
Listen to one anguished parent,
Elaine, tell her story. She says: ‘‘Let
me explain to you how this works. If
you take your child to a clinic to seek
help, affirmative care means the . . .
professionals must accept a child’s pro-
fessed gender identity. . . . Under ‘con-
version therapy’ bans, questioning a
child’s professed gender identity is now
illegal. So, if a little boy is 5 years old
and believes he is the opposite sex, af-
firmative care means going along with
his beliefs. Parents are encouraged to
refer to him as their ‘daughter’ and let
him choose a feminine name. Teachers
are told to let him use the girls bath-
room at school. Therapists will reas-
sure parents that social transition is
harmless and reversible. Is it really
harmless to tell a child who still be-
lieves in the tooth fairy that he is of
the opposite sex? . . . If a 10-year-old
girl is uncomfortable with her devel-
oping body and suddenly insists she is
a boy, affirmative care means blocking
this girl’s puberty with powerful
drugs.’’
And we know this will happen be-
cause it already has. And we know this
is the intent of the bill because Con-
gressman MIKE JOHNSON offered an
amendment: ‘‘Nothing in this act or
any amendment made by this act may
be construed to deny a parent’s right
to be involved in their minor child’s
medical care.’’ And the Democrats
voted that amendment down on a
party-line vote.
Elaine goes on to say: ‘‘I am speaking
out because I love my daughter. And it
is because of her that I know what I
have told you is true. She has been a
victim of ‘gender affirming’ medical
procedures, and I was powerless to stop
doctors from harming her.’’
I am sorry, Elaine. The House major-
ity doesn’t care, and it isn’t listening.
This is the brave new world that House
Democrats propose under the name,
‘‘equality.’’
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Rhode Island (Mr. CICILLINE), the spon-
sor of this legislation.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Speaker, I
rise to support H.R. 5, the Equality
Act.
I have to stop for a second and take
in this momentous occasion, for I have
the honor of being on the floor of the
U.S. House of Representatives, speak-
ing in favor of a bill that I have worked
on for the past 5 years that will finally
give full legal equality to the LGBTQ
community here in America. This is
truly historic.
I want to thank Chairman NADLER,
who has been an unwavering ally in
support of LGBTQ rights throughout
his career, and thank Speaker PELOSI,
Leader HOYER, and our whip, JAMES
CLYBURN, who have all showed tremen-
dous leadership in helping to get this
bill to the floor.
I want to acknowledge and thank my
LGBTQ Equality Caucus co-chairs, who
have shown extraordinary leadership,
not just in blazing a trail for future
LGBTQ leaders, but in being friends
and partners in this fight to get where
we are today.
I also want to thank our colleagues
in the Senate for their extraordinary
leadership. And, most importantly, we
wouldn’t be here today without the de-
termined efforts of the advocates and
allies in the civil rights and LGBTQ
rights community who banded together
to fight for the common values of dig-
nity and equality under the law.
Throughout my life, I have seen,
firsthand, the struggles that many in
my community have faced in achieving
the American Dream. The right to live
freely, without fear of persecution or
discrimination, is one many in the
LGBTQ community felt was an impos-
sibility for so long.
The fact that we are here today
about to vote on this legislation, which
has the bipartisan support of 241 Mem-
bers of the House is, in and of itself, an
achievement. It was not easy to get
here.
It was only 4 short years ago that the
Supreme Court struck down the De-
fense of Marriage Act, finally allowing
members of the LGBTQ community to
marry in every State.
Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell was the law of
the land until 6 years ago, and today,
the Trump administration is forcing
the men and women in our Armed
Forces back into the closet and taking
steps to target the LGBTQ community
in a variety of ways.
The forces working against progress
are strong, but together, we are strong-
er. We have made great strides in fight-
ing for LGBTQ rights under the law,
but make no mistake, there are many
people in this country, including in
this administration, who are actively
working to undermine our hard-fought
gains.
b 0930
That is why it is so significant that
we have such strong and diverse sup-
port for the Equality Act.
And I don’t just mean 241 bipartisan
cosponsors in the House. Look at the 47
bipartisan sponsors in the Senate, the
more than 200 businesses in every State
in the country who have endorsed the
bill, and the dozens of associations, ad-
vocacy groups, civil rights groups, and
faith groups that back it.
The Equality Act has the support of
a majority of the American people in
every State. Let that sink in. In every
single State in the country, the Amer-
ican people think it is time to protect
the LGBTQ community.
There is nothing more central to the
idea of America, nothing that has con-
tributed more to the exceptionalism of
our country and the prosperity of
America than the guarantee of equal
protection of the law for every single
American.
They support this bill all across this
country because it makes sense, it is
common sense. It adds sexual orienta-
tion and gender identity as protected
classes through existing civil rights
law, ensuring that the LGBTQ commu-
nity enjoys the same protections as ev-
eryone else, nothing more and nothing
less.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield the gentleman from Rhode Island
an additional 1 minute.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Speaker, I
want to take a moment to talk about
what the Equality Act doesn’t do.
There has been a lot of misinformation
about this bill floating around, and I
want to ensure that my colleagues and
the American people understand the
facts.
The Equality Act doesn’t force
priests or other clergy to perform same
sex marriages or any other religious
ceremony against their beliefs.
It doesn’t eliminate women’s col-
leges, fraternities, or sororities, or
other nondiscriminatory sex-seg-
regated program.
The Equality Act doesn’t prevent
parents from having control of their
children’s medical decisions or force
doctors to provide treatment against
their best judgment or religious be-
liefs.
And the Equality Act doesn’t elimi-
nate women’s sports.
The Equality Act doesn’t force
churches to act as public accommoda-
tions or eliminate the ability of reli-
gious institutions to accept Federal
money.
Here is what the Equality Act does.
It ensures that every child of an
LGBTQ parent will not be turned away
from the pediatrician’s office.
It ensures that transgender teenagers
can attend school without fear for
their safety.
And it ensures that LGBTQ employ-
ees can’t get married on Saturday, post
pictures on social media on Sunday,
and they get fired on Monday.
The Equality Act is quite literally a
life-saving bill that addresses some of
the fundamental inequalities that still
exist in the American legal system.
The time is now. The moment is
here. Future generations will look
back on this day as the moment where
our elected leaders showed what side of
history they are on.
We are on the right side of history.
Let’s pass the Equality Act today with
overwhelming bipartisan support.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman for yielding me the additional
time.
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO).
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I rise
in opposition to H.R. 5.
Madam Speaker, H.R. 5, the so-called
Equality Act, should really be called
the ‘‘Forfeiting Women’s Rights Act.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.007 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3936 May 17, 2019
According to multiple experts, law-
yers, and organizations, H.R. 5 would
indeed prohibit, in all circumstances,
under penalty of Federal law, any ac-
knowledgement of the reality of bio-
logical sex; would allow anyone at any
time to declare that he or she identi-
fies as the opposite sex, without any
medical or psychological diagnosis.
It would erase women and girls’
rights by requiring facilities, such as
schools, churches, dormitories, domes-
tic violence shelters, homeless shel-
ters, to allow biological males who
identify as women in women’s bath-
rooms, women’s and girls’ shelters,
women’s and girls’ showers, and in
women’s locker rooms.
This will indeed violate women’s pri-
vacy and can ultimately violate their
safety.
The danger to women when biological
men seek to claim female identity
should seem obvious, but it is being ig-
nored by proponents of this bill.
H.R. 5 puts women at risk by pro-
moting a Federal law that would over-
rule any restriction on gender identity
claims and abolish the protections of
biological sex-specific practices and
spaces.
H.R. 5 will eliminate women and
girls’ sports by requiring that men and
boys be allowed to compete in women’s
and girls’ sports. This is already hap-
pening.
H.R. 5 will also require doctors to
provide sex change surgeries and sex
change hormones to adolescents with-
out parental consent and without a
medical or psychological diagnosis.
This could permanently sterilize young
girls.
H.R. 5 denies constitutional religious
protections by totally eliminating the
bipartisan Religious Freedom Restora-
tion Act, which was supported by so
many Democrats back then, and this is
being done for the first time ever since
the act was passed.
Congress should only pass laws that
protect women, not threaten, silence,
or abandon them.
In fact, H.R. 5 puts everything that
women have worked so hard to gain,
opportunities and protections, at risk.
I believe that in our society, laws
should seek to protect the safety and
privacy of every woman and girl.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I
yield the gentlewoman from Arizona an
additional 30 seconds.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, this
bill actually does the opposite.
H.R. 5 prioritizes the rights of some
Americans over the rights of others.
This is not equality. This is far from it.
Madam Speaker, I speak before you
now willing and desiring to work with
any and all of my colleagues on poli-
cies that will truly promote women’s
rights and equality. However, this bill,
unfortunately, does neither.
Madam Speaker, with that, I urge op-
position of this bill.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 21⁄2 minutes to the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. SCOTT), the chair of
the Education and Labor Committee.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, today is a historic day. Sixty-
five years ago today, the Supreme
Court ruled in Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation that racially segregated schools
were inherently unequal and, therefore,
unconstitutional.
Today is also a historic day for the
LGBTQ community, because today the
House of Representatives will pass the
Equality Act.
Over the last decade, we have made
progress in securing rights for the
LGBT community, including marriage
equality and the repeal of Don’t Ask,
Don’t Tell. However, many legal bar-
riers still remain.
Only a handful of States have ex-
plicit laws barring discrimination
based on sexual orientation in employ-
ment, housing, and public accommoda-
tions, and even fewer have protections
for gender identity.
The inconsistent patchwork of State
laws leaves many people vulnerable to
discrimination at work, at school, and
in many other parts of their daily
lives.
As chairman, I was proud to hold a
hearing on this important civil rights
legislation in the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor. Witnesses testified
that all too many Americans are expe-
riencing discrimination in their every-
day lives, especially the workplace,
and even in the educational system,
where many of them are experiencing
discrimination, even in elementary
school. This is not acceptable.
This bill also ensures that the Reli-
gious Freedom Restoration Act, the
RFRA, cannot be used as a free pass to
discriminate.
RFRA was originally enacted as a
shield to serve as a safeguard for reli-
gious freedom, but recently it has been
used as a sword to cut down the civil
rights of too many individuals.
Freedom from discrimination is a
core American value.
Madam Speaker, passage of this bill
is long overdue. We must affirm that
all Americans are equally protected
from discrimination under the law. I,
therefore, urge all of my colleagues to
support this legislation.
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman
from North Carolina (Ms. FOXX).
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
California for yielding and for his tire-
less work exposing the deep flaws in
this bill.
Madam Speaker, I rise as the leader
of the Republicans on the Education
and Labor Committee, which should
have had an opportunity to consider
this legislation fully, considering its
vast implications for educational insti-
tutions and employers.
We did not have that opportunity. In-
stead, we had a single subcommittee
hearing.
As a fierce advocate for the Edu-
cation and Labor Committee, I would
never deem any subcommittee unim-
portant, but it was the subcommittee
with the smallest membership.
On top of that, somehow the decision
was made to bring this bill to the floor
under a closed rule with no amend-
ments. So, I commend my colleagues
on the Judiciary Committee for their
work on behalf of all of us.
This bill may have ‘‘equality’’ in its
title, but it does not serve all people.
Its mandates for specific accommoda-
tions in shared facilities puts job cre-
ators, particularly those in small busi-
nesses, schools, and other community-
serving facilities on the hook for Wash-
ington’s half-baked ideas.
Its vague and circular definitions of
gender identity will lead only to uncer-
tainty, litigation, and harm to individ-
uals and organizations that will be
forced to comply with a law the au-
thors don’t even seem to understand.
This is a classic example of passing
something now and figuring out what
it actually means later.
We have been here before. If the
Devil is in the details, we are in for a
lot of devilish surprises.
This is no small price for some great-
er good, as the bill’s proponents have
argued.
Opening schools and workplaces to
expanded liability based on, as the bill
states, a ‘‘perception or belief, even if
inaccurate,’’ of suspected discrimina-
tion.
Madam Speaker, I am going to repeat
those words, because they are so unbe-
lievable: ‘‘a perception or belief, even if
inaccurate,’’ of suspected discrimina-
tion.
How can we write legislation like
this? It would have untold chilling ef-
fects on hiring, career advancement,
and one could easily see discourse in
the classroom.
Where the bill is alarmingly clear,
however, is in its meticulous and inten-
tional destruction of religious freedom
protections.
American employers and educators
have grown accustomed to clumsy and
misguided mandates coming down from
Washington shrouded in good inten-
tions. Other laws under the jurisdiction
of the Education and Labor Committee
are littered with them, but this time
something is different.
The provision in H.R. 5 that guts the
Religious Freedom Restoration Act of
1993 is clear in its intent. This bill is a
brazen attempt to replace timeless, in-
herent religious liberties with the iden-
tity politics of the moment.
My colleagues on the other side of
the aisle could have been given the
benefit of the doubt on the rest of this
bill.
Careless and shortsighted legislation
is what they have done best for many
years, but this fevered grasping, this
hysterical clawing at individual Ameri-
cans who hold personal religious con-
victions, represents a major departure
from where the debate in this Chamber
has been before.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.008 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3937
May 17, 2019
I sincerely hope it is temporary, for
the sake of this body, and more impor-
tantly, for the sake of the people we
represent.
I hope this bill, which faces certain
failure in the Senate, will be remem-
bered as a failed experiment in oppres-
sive legislating and not the first-time
move in a new, sustained attack on re-
ligious freedom.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman
from Wisconsin (Mr. POCAN), the co-
chair of the Equality Caucus.
Mr. POCAN. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from New York for
yielding.
Madam Speaker, this is not about a
red herring about men wanting to play
in women’s sports. Please.
This is about people like my hus-
band, Phil, and I. We have been mar-
ried for almost 13 years. We are a pret-
ty boring married couple, probably not
all that different than most people in
Congress.
We try to sleep in a little on the
weekends, we sometimes argue over
what to watch on TV, and we cherish
the limited time we have with our
friends and family.
And we are really lucky, because we
live in Wisconsin, the first State in the
Nation to pass a gay and lesbian civil
rights bill back in 1982, and it was
signed by a Republican Governor, but
that is not true for a majority of Amer-
ica.
If we pass the Equality Act, people
like Phil and I can be free to love who
we love, and we can live where we want
to live, and we can work where we
want to work without being fired or
evicted simply because of who we are
or who we love.
That is pretty simple, pretty normal,
pretty American.
Today, we here in Congress can pro-
tect our LGBTQ constituents who want
to live a life like Phil and mine, like
yours, free of unfair prejudice and dis-
crimination.
Madam Speaker, I hope that Mem-
bers will do the right thing today and
join me in supporting the Equality Act.
b 0945
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS), the
ranking member of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, control the remainder of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman from California for being here
today and covering for us.
Madam Speaker, again, we have
talked about this: The Democrats in
this bill are pushing something quick-
ly. We have talked about this many
times and sometimes I just want to
talk about this because I feel that,
however well-intentioned the bill is, it
is not coming under full scrutiny. After
considering only four members in the
committee and rejecting each of them,
including three that simply added rules
of construction, the chairman re-
quested the House consider this bill
under a closed rule, and his request was
granted. Now, we can disagree about
policy, but it is hard to argue this bill
wouldn’t have been improved by full
debate about what the bill says in con-
sideration of as many amendments as
possible.
Americans can all agree that every-
one deserves to be treated with respect.
No one should be mistreated by his em-
ployers, coworkers, or, frankly, anyone
else. However, when lawmakers pro-
pose amendments to Federal law, we
must avoid doing more harm than
good. We also must not pass legislation
that could harm children; set back the
rights of women they have fought so
hard to obtain; and erase the gains
made possible by other Federal civil
rights laws, such as Title IX. H.R. 5
does all these things. This bill would do
much more harm than good in many
ways, and the people who would bear it
the most would be the women and chil-
dren who would get the brunt of the
damage.
Again, we can have disagreements on
what we believe this to be, but without
a full vetting on the possibilities, all
the nice language today about what it
would or would not do and what it is
supposed to do gets under the scrutiny
of what the law actually says. That is
the part that I have the most problem
with, not the intent, not the desire,
that is something we fight about—and
we do—and the goodness, I never ques-
tion. It is how you go about it.
I made this statement on this floor
before, Madam Speaker, what makes
you feel good does not often heal you.
And today may make us feel good, but
in the end probably will not do what we
intend it to do. And that is a concern,
especially with the way this bill has
come to the floor.
I know this has been a consideration.
We considered female sports in which,
last year, two male athletes won the
top two spots in a Connecticut girls
class S indoor track meet. One of those
female athletes finished eighth and
missed an opportunity to compete in
front of college coaches by two places.
In her words, ‘‘We all know the out-
come of the race before it even starts;
it’s demoralizing.’’ Allowing men to
compete against women in women’s
sports isn’t demoralizing because fe-
male athletes like Selina aren’t tal-
ented, it is demoralizing because it
makes their talent irrelevant.
I don’t say this. This is not DOUG
COLLINS’ opinion. This is also the opin-
ion of tennis great, Martina
Navratilova, who explained the threat
H.R. 5 poses to women’s sports: ‘‘Unless
you want to completely remake what
women’s sports mean, there can be no
blanket inclusion rule. There is noth-
ing stereotypical about this—it’s about
fairness and it’s about science.’’ And
that came after she made initial com-
ments, went back after being criticized
for them, reviewed it, looked at every-
thing, and then came back with that
statement. She basically, again, dou-
bled down and agreed on what she was
saying. And she is one not to back
away from those needing equality.
If H.R. 5 becomes law, others will be
asking, What did we do at this moment
when we had a chance to look at a bill
that maybe we could look at and fix or
make it better, but we didn’t?
Never before in American history has
a political party tried so dramatically
to rewrite the Federal civil rights laws
to include an undefined, self-referen-
tial, ideologically driven term called
‘‘gender identity’’ in the U.S. Code, ap-
plicable to literally any entity that re-
ceives Federal assistance, including el-
ementary schools, colleges, and
healthcare centers nationwide. H.R. 5
would make self-reporting of gender
identity a protected class under Fed-
eral law and require doctors and edu-
cators to blindly follow the self-report-
ing of adolescents and young adults.
Healthcare protocols and even state
law would be no defense, as they would
be superseded by this Federal law
under the Supremacy Clause of the
Constitution. I know this has been de-
bated and characterized from my
friends across the aisle as not true, but
a plain reading of the text says it is
true, and this is something we have to
deal with.
We heard proponents of H.R. 5 call
people who oppose it as either igno-
rant, bigoted, oppressive, or hateful. I
will not make similar characteriza-
tions across the aisle of my friends. I
believe we have a genuine disagree-
ment here. That is what this House
floor is for, but, unfortunately, it is a
closed rule today and has been rel-
atively closed in the process up until
this point.
Madam Speaker, I implore my col-
leagues to listen to the stories of
stakeholders everywhere, including the
transgender girls and boys this bill is
meant to help. We may be hurting
them by allowing doctors to prescribe
hormones and perform major surgeries
on adolescents without parental con-
sent or involvement. In fact, H.R. 5
would actually compel doctors to
medicalize children without even con-
sulting their parents. Families of
transgender children are begging Con-
gress to listen to them.
But, also, H.R. 5 endangers the First
Amendment rights of every single
American. Because the bill makes no
provision for sincerely-held religious
belief, it would criminalize the funda-
mental tenets of major world religions,
including Christianity, Islam, and Ju-
daism. Biological sex is a scientific re-
ality, yet H.R. 5 would target faith tra-
ditions that acknowledge it as such
and want to live their lives accord-
ingly.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.010 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3938 May 17, 2019
Today, we must listen to all Ameri-
cans, including the LGBTQ commu-
nity, and recognize many within the
community have also raised concerns
about this legislation. H.R. 5, in the
words of the Women’s Liberation Front
leader, nullifies ‘‘women and girls as a
coherent legal category, worthy of civil
rights protection.’’ It would endanger
millions of American women and un-
dermine fundamental American rights
to faith in both religion and science,
and actively put children at risk by
medicalizing them in harmful and per-
manent ways without parental involve-
ment.
Madam Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to join me in opposing this bill,
which is being rushed to the floor with-
out Members having an opportunity to
vote on amendments and I believe care-
fully considering what is being put be-
fore them.
Again, Madam Speaker, think about
what we are asking here. For the first
time, something was raised in our com-
mittee hearing that said: Do you think
people would commit fraud by doing all
these changes and going through med-
ical procedures and everything, that
they would do that just to simply com-
mit fraud? Let me remind you, Madam
Speaker, and to anyone listening this
morning, this bill does not require any
of that. It requires nothing except a
self-admonishment or knowledge that I
am what I say I am today. That is all
this bill requires.
So many of us are just asking: Is
there a better way to do this? Is there
a better way to look at this? Probably
not. But this way, this is not right and
is being rushed.
Again, as I started with today, I will
sort of end as well, sometimes what
makes you feel good—and I understand
the majority’s desire to bring this for-
ward and to a fulfill a promise, I get
it—but, in the end, is it also going to
do what you want it to do in the long-
run? Or are there going to be unin-
tended consequences that we don’t
want to acknowledge today in our rush
to do something we promised? Some-
times it is better to back up and make
sure it is right before we can fulfill a
promise.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY).
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York. Madam Speaker, I rise to
support the Equality Act. I will not re-
peat the many eloquent things my col-
leagues have said about the importance
of the proposed legislation, though I
will thank the gentleman from New
York and from Rhode Island for their
leadership and others. Nor will I refute
the many foolish and false things said
on the other side.
This is landmark and essential civil
rights protection for those who now
don’t have it. It is no more, it is no less
than others enjoy. It respects the First
Amendment and the exercise of reli-
gion in exactly the same way as we do
now for every other civil rights con-
text. It puts the law on the side of
those who continue to face invidious
discrimination based not on their char-
acter, but on who they are.
Many others have said this better
than I will, but, Madam Speaker, I do
want to speak to one group of my col-
leagues: those who know this is a good
bill and, yet today, will vote no. To
those colleagues, I ask you to consider
the score.
In this Chamber, we are all familiar
with scores. A score is what some pow-
erful group usually threatens us with
when they fear we will vote for some-
thing because we believe it is the right
thing to do. It often works that way.
We believe a vote is right, but don’t
vote that way, they say, or we will
score it against you. That is how Wash-
ington scores.
But, history scores differently. Con-
science has its own rules. Decency sees
something beyond such agendas. His-
tory records the good. Conscience
aligns with what is right. Decency en-
dures the unfair attacks and protects
what truly matters.
This is a good and simple bill of ex-
traordinary historical importance. It
sits high above our daily consider-
ations. Each of us in our careers will be
lucky if we come to this floor on a sin-
gle day when history is made, on a day
when, by our vote, we can count our-
selves among those who have cared for
and who have nurtured the original
promise embedded in our founding doc-
uments.
Others have done much more than we
will do today or any day: on the battle-
field, or in Seneca Falls, or on the Ed-
mund Pettus Bridge, or simply in their
daily dignified decisions to love their
neighbors as themselves.
Madam Speaker, I know my col-
leagues are good and decent people. Let
conscience guide us to the right, and,
please, support this bill.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Alabama (Mr. BYRNE).
Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong opposition to H.R. 5. As many of
my colleagues have stated, there are a
number of very troubling issues with
this legislation. In my mind, perhaps
none is more troubling than the bill’s
explicit carveout from the Religious
Freedom Restoration Act, also known
as RFRA.
Under the First Amendment, Ameri-
cans are blessed with the freedom of re-
ligion. This is much more than the
freedom of worship. Not only do Ameri-
cans have the right to worship as they
see fit, their faith is not confined to
what happens inside their place of wor-
ship. They have the right to practice
their religion every day as they see fit.
For many years, there was a strong,
bipartisan agreement that protecting
this right was of the utmost impor-
tance. In the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
religious protections enjoyed bipar-
tisan support. Likewise, RFRA was
heralded as an historic, bipartisan
achievement.
In the wake of the Supreme Court’s
1990 decision in Employment Division
v. Smith, which rolled back long-
standing constitutional protections for
religious liberty, the Congress came to-
gether and restored broad protections
for religious freedom under RFRA.
RFRA was introduced by then-Rep-
resentative CHUCK SCHUMER and Sen-
ator Ted Kennedy. It passed unani-
mously in the House and by a vote of
97–3 in the Senate, and it was signed
into law by President Clinton.
For nearly two decades, RFRA has
been the hallmark of protecting the re-
ligious freedom of Americans against
the weight of a powerful Federal Gov-
ernment. Contrary to what some of its
recent opponents claim, RFRA is not
an automatic opt out of any law for
people of faith. Instead, RFRA provides
a commonsense balancing test between
religious belief and government action.
First, an individual challenging the
government must show that they have
a sincerely held belief that is being
substantially burdened by the govern-
ment—that is, there is a real matter of
faith actually being affected by the
government’s actions. If the individual
successfully shows that, they do not
automatically win their claim.
The government may then show that
it has a compelling interest—that is, a
good reason—to interfere with the indi-
vidual’s religious rights and that the
interference is the least restrictive
means to accomplish the government’s
goals—that is, the government doesn’t
have a better alternative.
This test provides fairness for both
sides. Unfortunately, today, the House
proposes to break this historic protec-
tion and say that RFRA will not apply
to the Equality Act. It is clear why
they have done this.
Without RFRA, it is less likely that
faith-based charities and organizations
will be able to uphold the faith of their
organization when it runs counter to
evolving norms on human sexuality.
Without RFRA, it is less likely that
Christian colleges and universities will
be able to teach and uphold a biblical
understanding of marriage and human
sexuality.
Without RFRA, it is less likely that
parents in public schools will be able to
opt their children out of mandated edu-
cation that teaches human sexuality
contrary to their family’s religious
faith.
Unfortunately, the modern Demo-
cratic Party has decided that man-
dating its beliefs on everyone is more
important than upholding the rights of
people of faith and those who possess
contrary beliefs.
Madam Speaker, that is truly radical
and deeply troubling. It is unprece-
dented. It is contrary to the values and
foundational freedoms of this country.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to reject this legislation. Pro-
tecting the rights of some cannot come
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:20 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.012 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3939
May 17, 2019
at the high cost of stripping away the
rights of others, particularly when it
comes to protecting religious liberty.
b 1000
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE), a senior
member of the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman very much, and I
thank Mr. CICILLINE.
Let me refute the suggestion that
this is a bill that was rushed to the
floor. This is a work that has been ger-
minating for 5 years plus, and many of
us have watched and been engaged in
meetings and collaboration to ensure
that the bill would reflect all of what
America is about.
I want to speak to my religious
friends—that is, all of us claim a reli-
gion of some form—and I want to say
to them that religious liberty is not
dead, but it is alive.
This bill focuses on saving lives; it
focuses on understanding what it
means to be transgender and denied the
right to serve in the United States
military. It stands up for African
American transgender women who
have been killed in the South, in the
region that I live in; and it stands up
for the person who knocked on the door
and could not get housing because of
their status.
And so I would ask my friends who
are Mormon, Seventh Day Adventists,
Catholic, Jewish, Muslim, and other re-
ligions: How would you feel if you
knocked on a door and you could not
get in, if they had no place for you at
the inn?
So I am well-aware of the Restora-
tive Act, dealing with religion, passed
in 1993, but I am also aware of the Su-
preme Court case, the Hodges case in
2015, which said: ‘‘They ask for equal
dignity in the eyes of the law. The Con-
stitution grants them that right.’’
That is what this bill is doing, and
the Constitution will protect those who
are involved in the religious practices.
As it has indicated: ‘‘We the people of
the United States, in order to form a
more perfect Union.’’
And then you go to the Bill of Rights,
and it has as Amendment Number I:
‘‘Congress shall make no law respect-
ing an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof.’’
The Constitution will be alongside of
the Equality Act, and we will be able
to have fair housing and civil rights,
and we will be able to deal with this
issue.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
POCAN). The time of the gentlewoman
has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from Texas.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman very much for the
time.
It will allow, with this Constitution
alongside of the Equality Act, the idea
that the Civil Rights Act stands for
those in the LGBTQ community, the
Civil Rights Act in title VI and title II
and title VII; and they will stand
alongside of the ACLU and the NAACP
and the Urban League and LULAC and
all of the civil rights groups.
They will stand alongside those of us
who have been fighting for fair housing
time after time so that, when we knock
on the door, no matter who you are in
this country, you will have the Con-
stitution and the Equality Act.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my friends and
others in the religious community to
support the Equality Act.
Mr. Speaker, as a senior member of the
Committee on the Judiciary and an original co-
sponsor, I rise in strong support of H.R. 5, the
‘‘Equality Act of 2019.’’
Let me thank my colleague on the Judiciary
Committee, Congressman DAVID CICILLINE of
Rhode Island, for introducing this landmark
legislation and his tireless efforts in making
this day a reality.
Mr. Speaker, our nation’s long but inex-
orable march towards equality reaches an-
other milestone today.
For as long as our national charters have
been in existence, we have endeavored to ask
ourselves: what do we mean when we say
‘‘We the People?’’
How expansive do we hold our pledge that
all are entitled to the blessings of life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness.
To be certain our nation has come a long
way, but as we debate this critical bill, I am re-
minded of the Supreme Court’s decision in
Obergefell v. Hodges, 576 U.S. ll 135 S.Ct.
2584 (2015), and its powerful conclusion ex-
plaining the profound power of love and mar-
riage, and the desire to be seen as equal in
the eyes of the law:
No union is more profound than marriage,
for it embodies the highest ideals of love, fi-
delity, devotion, sacrifice, and family. In
forming a marital union, two people become
something greater than once they were. As
some of the petitioners in these cases dem-
onstrate, marriage embodies a love that may
endure even past death. It would misunder-
stand these men and women to say they dis-
respect the idea of marriage. Their plea is
that they do respect it, respect it so deeply
that they seek to find its fulfillment for
themselves. Their hope is not to be con-
demned to live in loneliness, excluded from
one of civilization’s oldest institutions. They
ask for equal dignity in the eyes of the law.
The Constitution grants them that right.
Despite significant legal advances over the
past several years, including marriage equal-
ity, LGBTQ Americans remain vulnerable to
discrimination on a daily basis and too often
have little recourse.
The Equality Act has the bipartisan support
of Members of Congress, with nearly 240 co-
sponsors, as well as the strong support of the
business community, and most important, the
overwhelming support of the American people.
More than 70 percent of Americans support
the Equality Act.
This has been a long journey; the first
Equality Act was introduced nearly 45 years
ago.
It is long past time to secure the civil rights
of LGBTQ people across the country and ac-
cord them full membership in the American
family.
With the Trump Administration rolling back
protections at the federal level and anti-equal-
ity opponents continuing to push discrimina-
tory bills at the state level, LGBTQ people
cannot wait another year for affirmation that
they are worthy of the dignity of their peers
and deserving of equal protection of the laws.
Today, too many LGTBQ Americans in too
many places remain too vulnerable to discrimi-
nation on a daily basis with too little legal re-
course.
Fifty percent of the national LGBTQ commu-
nity live in states where, though they may
have the right to marry, they have no explicit
non-discrimination protections in other areas
of daily life.
The Equality Act extends the full anti-dis-
crimination protections of the landmark Civil
Rights Act of 1964 and other key pillars of fair-
ness and justice in our country to LGBTQ
Americans.
Sexual orientation and gender identity de-
serve full civil rights protections, not just in the
workplace, but in every place: in education,
housing, credit, jury service, public facilities,
and public accommodations.
Today, there are only 21 states that have
explicit laws barring discrimination based on
sexual orientation in employment, housing,
and public accommodations, and only 20
states have such protections for gender iden-
tity.
In most states, a same-sex couple can get
married on Saturday, then be legally denied
service at a restaurant on Sunday, and be
fired from their jobs on Monday, and evicted
from their apartment on Tuesday.
Mr. Speaker, let me take a moment to dis-
cuss in more detail several of the important
elements of the Equality Act.
The Equality Act amends existing federal
civil rights laws to explicitly prohibit discrimina-
tion on the basis of sexual orientation and
gender identity in education, employment,
housing, credit, Federal jury service, public ac-
commodations, and the use of Federal funds.
It does so by adding sex in some places
where it had not previously been protected,
and clarifying that sex includes sexual orienta-
tion and gender identity.
Specifically, the H.R. 5, the ‘‘Equality Act of
2019’’ amends:
1. Title II of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to
provide basic protections against discrimina-
tion in public accommodations by adding sex,
including sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity;
2. Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to
provide basic protections against discrimina-
tion by recipients of federal financial assist-
ance by adding sex, including sexual orienta-
tion, and gender identity;
3. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, the Gov-
ernment Employee Rights Act of 1991, and
the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995
to make explicit protections against workplace
discrimination on the basis of sexual orienta-
tion or gender identity;
4. The Fair Housing Act of 1968 to make
protections against housing discrimination
based on sexual orientation or gender identity
explicit;
5. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act to make
protections against credit discrimination based
on sexual orientation and gender identity ex-
plicit; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.013 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3940 May 17, 2019
6. The Jury Selections and Services Act to
make protections against discrimination in fed-
eral jury service based on sexual orientation
or gender identity explicit.
RELIGIOUS EXEMPTIONS
The march towards equality has been long
and has awoken passions passion from many
quarters for various reasons.
Well-intentioned people from all walks of life
have had difficulty as progress washes over
the debate surrounding protections for same
sex individuals.
At times, the debate has seen input from
members of the faith community, who strive to
reconcile their love for all of God’s sons and
daughters, with the script of their sacred text.
I understand this tension, but I have care-
fully studied the text and am confident that
passage of the Equality Act will not adversely
affect any person’s freedom of worship of the
free exercise of their faith.
The Equality Act adds sexual orientation
and gender identity to federal civil rights law
and sex where it is missing.
But the same statutory exemptions that are
already in place in the Civil Rights Act and the
Fair Housing Act will remain in place after en-
actment and the guarantees of the United
States Constitution remain untouched.
The U.S. Constitution provides ample pro-
tections for religious freedom and nothing in
this bill would, or could, infringe upon the pro-
tections afforded by the Constitution, as the
principal sponsor of the bill, Congressman
CICILLINE, confirmed during a colloquy we held
during the markup of the bill in the Judiciary
Committee.
Specifically, the provisions relating to Title
VI of the Civil Rights Act (federal funding) in-
clude the original exemptions for discrimina-
tion based on religion.
Religious organizations (not just houses of
worship) are free to limit participation in a wide
array of activities and services to only mem-
bers of their faith.
This same exemption applies to public ac-
commodations.
Houses of worship could be considered a
place of public accommodation only if they
offer their space or services for commercial
public use.
This does not include religious services.
Nothing in this bill alters the ability of
houses of worship or religious leaders to prac-
tice or carry out their faith.
No member of the clergy will ever be com-
pelled to perform a religious ceremony that
conflicts with their beliefs, including marrying
same-sex couples.
The DOJ Title VI Manual and relevant and
relevant case law clearly provide that a reli-
gious organization that is not ‘‘principally en-
gaged’’ in providing social services is only
bound by nondiscrimination requirements re-
lated to the program for which they receive
funding if that funding is targeted in order to
provide a specific program or service, i.e. dis-
aster relief, rather than to the entity ‘‘as a
whole.’’
Nothing in the Equality Act changes that
rule.
There is a longstanding ministerial exemp-
tion in federal civil rights law that exempts reli-
gious organizations from complying with em-
ployment nondiscrimination provisions for min-
isters, rabbis and any other person who is
‘‘carrying out the faith’’.
The Equality Act does not alter that exemp-
tion in any way.
The Equality Act does not repeal the Reli-
gious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA).
The Equality Act clarifies that RFRA cannot
be used to defend discrimination in public set-
tings or with federal funds.
The Equality Act does not alter or amend
the RFRA standard for any other kinds of
claims.
Federal civil rights laws and the United
States Constitution provide many exemptions
for religious organizations.
It bears stating again that the statutory ex-
emptions that are already in place in the Civil
Rights Act and the Fair Housing Act will re-
main in place and the United States Constitu-
tion remains untouched.
Courts have long-rejected religious claims
as a reason to deny civil rights protections, in-
cluding those based on race and sex, and the
same analysis applies to all other protected
characteristics.
Specifically, religious belief did not exempt
restaurants or hotels from complying with the
civil rights laws passed in the 1960s and can-
not do so today.
RFRA explicitly contemplates that Congress
would exempt certain laws from its application.
The clarifying language in the Equality Act is
necessary to ensure that courts do not mis-
interpret the intended interaction between
RFRA and our civil rights laws.
RFRA will still be available to address bur-
dens on religious beliefs and practices in other
contexts.
And any individual or organization that is
concerned that their religious beliefs or prac-
tices are being unjustly burdened retains the
ability to bring a claim under the First Amend-
ment.
The time has come to extend the full bless-
ings of equality and the majesty of the law’s
protection to all of our brothers and sisters, in-
cluding those in the LGBTQ community.
Mr. Speaker, it been said that ‘‘the moral
arc of the universe is long but bends toward
justice.’’
Today, with passage by this House of H.R.
5, the Equality Act, we bend that arc even
more in the direction of justice.
I am proud to be an original cosponsor of
this life-changing and life-affirming legislation
and urge all members to stand on the right of
history and vote for its passage.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. SPANO).
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I happen to
be a Christian, and I am grateful. I am
grateful to have been born in a nation
where my beliefs and those of every
other American are legally protected
by our Constitution.
It is no coincidence that the very
First Amendment to the Constitution
guarantees religious liberty. Our Na-
tion was settled by men and women
from all over the world with divergent
beliefs and conviction. We were Catho-
lics, Puritans, Lutherans, Jews, Bap-
tists, Hindus, Anglicans, Quakers, and
Muslims.
This rich and diverse cultural melt-
ing pot was the soil in which the guar-
antees of the First Amendment were
planted, sprouted, and grew very
strong. And over these last 230 years,
the freedom of Americans to worship
and believe as their conscience and
their God dictates has become deeply
and firmly rooted in our Nations’s her-
itage, laws, and jurisprudence. But al-
though deeply rooted, I fear we have
forgotten and neglected its funda-
mental importance.
The First Amendment was adopted
long ago, but freedom—freedom—is al-
ways a new idea. Coretta Scott King
wisely said: ‘‘Freedom is never really
won. You earn it and win it in every
generation.’’
H.R. 5 is bad for freedom. You see, it
would immediately expose churches,
religious schools, and universities and
faith-based organizations to legal li-
ability for simply following their ear-
nest beliefs. It would essentially allow
the government to place its hard and
unyielding fist inside the church walls
to force compliance with the convic-
tions and dictates of the State instead
of the church.
H.R. 5 is bad for freedom. It would
force small businesses, small business
owners all across this country to pro-
vide services or products to the public
that may violate their deeply held,
faith-based convictions, again, allow-
ing the State to essentially impose
from above, top down, its own moral
codes and rules in place of those of the
individual.
H.R. 5 is bad for freedom. It is a large
leap backward for parental rights, pit-
ting physicians against parents, the
genuine religious convictions of par-
ents when their child seeks life-alter-
ing, irreversible sex reassignment
treatment before that child has even
developed physically or emotionally,
once again, government inserting its
rigid fist and iron will, this time, di-
rectly into the family unit.
H.R. 5 is bad for freedom. It would, in
one fell swoop, deliver a crushing blow
to the base of the tree of religious lib-
erty, the tree that has grown strong
and provided shade and protection for
many for so long.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, anybody
who says that this bill would dictate to
the churches what they may preach or
practice doesn’t know what he is talk-
ing about.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
JEFFRIES), the chair of the Democratic
Caucus and a senior member of the Ju-
diciary Committee.
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the distinguished chair, and I thank
my good friend, DAVID CICILLINE, for
his extraordinary leadership on this in-
credibly important legislation.
The words, ‘‘We hold these truths to
be self-evident, that all men are cre-
ated equal,’’ were eloquent in their ar-
ticulation but incomplete in their ap-
plication.
As the legendary Barbara Jordan
once observed, those words did not
originally apply to African Americans;
they did not apply to people of color;
they did not apply to Native Ameri-
cans; they did not apply to women;
they did not apply to members of the
LGBT community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17MY7.010 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3941
May 17, 2019
We have come a long way here in the
United States of America, but we still
have work to do.
If you truly believe in liberty and
justice for all, support the Equality
Act.
If you truly believe in equal protec-
tion under the law, support the Equal-
ity Act.
If you truly believe that everybody is
created equal and that we are all God’s
children, then support the Equality
Act.
Love does not discriminate, and nei-
ther should the law, regardless of sex-
ual orientation and regardless of gen-
der identity. It is time to support the
Equality Act, and let’s continue our
Nation’s long, necessary, and majestic
march toward a more perfect Union.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman
from Kentucky (Mr. COMER).
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today representing a district in which
school sports are at the heart of com-
munity gatherings.
In Kentucky, basketball is a way of
life. In my district, students practice
their whole life to have the chance to
attain athletic scholarship opportuni-
ties from universities they would oth-
erwise be unable to attend. These stu-
dents go on to accomplish great things
and give back to their communities be-
cause of the scholarships they gain
from athletic competition.
This legislation would essentially
subvert the purpose of gender divisions
in these competitions by allowing bio-
logical males who identify as female to
compete against girls in the same divi-
sion. We have already seen instances
where young women were denied schol-
arship opportunities because biological
males competed in the same category
with them and placed higher on the po-
dium in track competitions.
A bill with a name like the Equality
Act sounds like a bill that in some way
advocates for all people. That is what
we strive for in this country: equality
before the law. That is why, over the
more than two centuries this country
has existed, we have, thankfully, up-
dated our laws to right wrongs and
bring us closer to treating all people
with the dignity they deserve.
But as I look at H.R. 5, I am deeply
troubled, and I believe most Americans
would be deeply troubled by what is
really there.
I serve as ranking member for the
Civil Rights and Human Services Sub-
committee for the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor. In our sub-
committee, we held a hearing on the
Equality Act, and what became abun-
dantly clear was that this legislation
would alter Federal nondiscrimination
law in ways that would have unin-
tended effects we cannot know today.
This bill is following in the tradition
of others we have seen so far through-
out this Congress: a clever name, an al-
legedly noble purpose, but a vehicle for
serious, harmful consequences.
Equality and freedom must coexist.
H.R. 5 totally redefines one and deliv-
ers a serious blow to the other.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to gentleman from Maryland
(Mr. RASKIN), a distinguished member
of the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I want to
strike a bipartisan note and invoke a
Republican President who made Amer-
ica truly great, Abraham Lincoln, who
served in this body and spoke of gov-
ernment of the people, by the people,
and for the people—all the people.
In 1964, our predecessors in the House
stood here and voted 333–85 to pass the
Civil Rights Act of 1964. The vast ma-
jority of Democrats and the vast ma-
jority of Republicans voted for it, and
we changed America by bringing down
the walls of racial and ethnic discrimi-
nation in employment, housing, public
accommodations, and education.
Our predecessors rejected the famil-
iar hysterical arguments that equal
rights for African Americans in res-
taurants and hotels and at lunch
counters meant discrimination against
the religious rights of the owners of
the restaurants and the motels and
lunch counters, which is precisely the
argument that was made back in that
day.
Today, we legislate equal rights
under the exact same act for millions
of Americans in the LGBT community.
This is a triumphant and glorious mo-
ment for the House of Representatives
and for the United States of America.
But our friends who now occupy the
seats of Lincoln’s party tell us that
children will be able to get surgery
without their parents’ consent. This is
false, and this is propaganda.
Every State in the Union requires pa-
rental consent before their minor chil-
dren get surgery, and nothing in this
act will affect any of the States’ laws
in any way with respect to parental
consent.
Let’s honor Abraham Lincoln. Let’s
honor the best traditions of the United
States of America. Let’s bring down
the walls of discrimination against all
Americans. Let’s pass the Equality
Act.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 41⁄2 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER).
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong opposition to H.R. 5, a
deceptively named bill that is anything
but equalizing. In fact, this bill legal-
izes discrimination, government-im-
posed, top-down discrimination against
those with time-honored views of mar-
riage and gender.
This bill should be renamed the ‘‘In-
equality Act,’’ as its policies at the
State level have already been used to
eliminate safe spaces for women, irrep-
arably harm children, trample parental
rights, undermine the free exercise of
religion, and dismantle female ath-
letics.
As a mother, teacher, and former
track coach, I am deeply concerned
about the implications of this bill on
and off the playing field.
Title 9 of the Civil Rights Act, the
provision guaranteeing girls the same
educational opportunities as boys and
which launched competitive female
sports into the arena, is rendered irrel-
evant and outdated under the Inequal-
ity Act.
b 1015
Under H.R. 5, high school female ath-
letes will miss competitive opportuni-
ties because boys take home the med-
als.
Selina from Connecticut trained
hard, set goals, and persevered, but she
couldn’t overcome the biological ad-
vantage men have over women when
two biological boys who identify as fe-
male outpaced her in a recent girls’
track meet.
On average, there is a 10 to 12 percent
performance gap between elite males
and elite females in athletics. The gap
is smaller between elite females and
nonelite males but still insurmount-
able. It is no surprise that men are tak-
ing home the gold in women’s sports.
In future Olympics, it would only
take three biological males who iden-
tify as female to prevent the best fe-
male athletes from reaching the medal
stand and eight to keep them off the
track entirely.
If we continue down this track, how
long will it be before nations recruit
men identifying as female to out-medal
other countries and ultimately uproot
the ancient tradition of the Olympics?
To put in this perspective, Olympic,
world, and U.S. champion Tori Bowie’s
100-meter lifetime best time was beat-
en 15,000 times by men and boys. In an-
other case, Olympic, world, and U.S.
champion Allyson Felix’s 400-meter
lifetime best was outperformed more
than 15,000 times by males.
In case after case, men identifying as
women are outcompeting, outrunning,
outfighting, and outcycling women.
Welcome to the brave new world of
women’s sports under H.R. 5.
The importance of Title IX is found
not just on the field. As Duke law pro-
fessor Coleman testified before the
House Judiciary Committee, ‘‘Tens of
thousands of girls and women are now
eligible for college scholarships, ensur-
ing educational opportunities that for
many wouldn’t be realistic otherwise.’’
Unfortunately, H.R. 5 erases these
educational opportunities, further
disenfranchising women. Women-only
scholarships would be a thing of the
past if this bill passes.
Mr. Speaker, either we want a level
playing field for American women or
we don’t.
I remind my colleagues that next
week marks the centennial anniversary
of this Chamber’s historic passage of
the 19th Amendment granting women
the right to vote. It is an honor and a
privilege for me to stand here on this
House floor 100 years later celebrating
this milestone.
I find it eerily ironic that today
many of my colleagues will exercise
their 19th Amendment right to turn
back the clock on women and girls
across this country.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.015 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3942 May 17, 2019
A vote for this bill is a vote against
women. Members from both sides of the
aisle, especially those who claim to be
pro-women and pro-child, need to stop
this devastating legislation. The future
of our girls’ rights, privacy, protection,
and athletic potential depends on it.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Texas
(Ms. GARCIA), a distinguished member
of the Judiciary Committee.
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in full support of H.R. 5, the
Equality Act. We have made much
progress in recent years, but the re-
ality is that many still face discrimi-
nation because of who they are and
whom they love.
As has been well-documented during
the legislative record for H.R. 5, there
are currently no Federal protections
for LGBTQ people in the United States.
So let’s refocus on what this bill is
really about.
In 30 States, LGBTQ people can be
fired, refused housing, or denied serv-
ices simply because of who they are.
The Equality Act would greatly extend
civil rights for this community, pro-
viding protections across key areas of
life, including employment, housing,
credit, and jury duty.
In Texas, that means having explicit
protections for LGBTQ people for the
first time in our history. Updating Fed-
eral law will tear down barriers to
prosperity and lead to better outcomes
for our families, neighbors, and loved
ones.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from Texas.
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
this legislation will benefit nearly 1
million LGBTQ Texans and countless
other Americans.
Finally, in Texas, when we say y’all,
we will mean all.
Mr. Speaker, I want to add that as a
woman and as a Catholic, I know I am
not forfeiting any of my rights, not my
women’s rights or my religious rights.
We need to go back and make sure that
we pass this bill because for once, when
we say justice for all at the end of our
pledge, it should mean justice for all.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. GOHMERT).
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate the efforts of my friends across
the aisle who believe that they are act-
ing on behalf of equality. I realize that
they believe that their way of ap-
proaching things includes much more
wisdom than that of Moses, who is the
only great lawgiver depicted in this
Chamber with a full face rather than a
side view.
I would only submit we are not wiser
at this time than Moses. I have heard
comments from my friends, including
my friend the former law professor say-
ing he was impressed with the ability
of the courts to sort out these civil
rights issues.
But as my friend Justice Scalia once
told me: If you guys are going to screw
up legislation over in Congress, don’t
come running to us all the time be-
cause you don’t know how to make
laws that are fair.
That is what we have here. In an ef-
fort borne out of the best intentions,
we want to help the feelings of people
who are gender confused or just suf-
fering gender dysphoria, the opposite of
euphoria. We don’t want to hurt their
feelings.
We are told that 25 percent of all
women will suffer sexual assault. The
literature is clear that women suffer
post-traumatic stress disorder after
sexual assault at three to four times
the rate that soldiers do, and that they
are traumatized and retriggered by
being in a confined space like a dress-
ing room or a restroom when a biologi-
cal man comes into that private area.
We are going to say to those women:
You know what? You have just got to
get over your trauma because for the
less than 1 percent who though a bio-
logical man but think they may be a
woman, so they are confused gender-
wise, we don’t want to hurt their feel-
ings. So you are just going to have to
get over your trauma.
This is what is going on here. If you
look at the battered women shelters
around this country, who pays for most
of those? It sure appears to me, for the
ones I see, they are Christian, Salva-
tion Army, Catholic. I have been told
by many of these folks: We are just
barely surviving financially. This will
force us to change our accommoda-
tions, and we will go out of business.
We believe, as Christians, that Moses
had it right on males and females. Al-
though there are people wiser in their
own eyes than Moses and Jesus, who
said exactly verbatim what Moses did,
if an orthodox synagogue says, ‘‘You
know what? We think men should be
rabbis,’’ but they don’t hire the bio-
logical woman who says, ‘‘I feel like I
am a man today,’’ then they can be
sued. But this bill gives not only the
claimant the ability to sue but also al-
lows the Attorney General to come in
with the full force of the United States
Government and destroy that syna-
gogue or that Christian organization.
I know there are people here who
think, ‘‘I do a whole lot more good
than these Christian organizations,’’
but do you really?
This is borne out of good intentions,
but it is going to be so destructive to
common sense and to people, to women
who have been hurt. As we heard in our
committee from the second woman to
get a scholarship under Title IX, you
are going to destroy women’s scholar-
ships.
She had a chart there. The three top
times for the 400-meter in the Olympics
of 2016, she said there are thousands of
men who have better times. I know my
friends said in the hearing, ‘‘Gee, we
know that men would never act like a
woman just to get a massive amount of
money and scholarships.’’
I don’t want to hear the majority say
later, ‘‘Wow, we really didn’t think
that would happen.’’ It is already hap-
pening.
If we are going to preserve the gains
made by women under Title IX, this
needs to fail and not become the law.
To preserve what we have already done
in the way of gains for women, I urge a
‘‘no’’ vote.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. PELOSI), the distinguished
Speaker of the House.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding. I am so
proud that the gentleman is in the
Chair, as well as others who will pre-
side in the course of this historic de-
bate today, ANGIE CRAIG being one of
them.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the distin-
guished chairman of the Judiciary
Committee for giving us this oppor-
tunity today to expand freedom in
America.
I commend Congressman CICILLINE
for his extraordinary leadership, his
courage, and his persistence in intro-
ducing this legislation that is so im-
portant to our country, and doing so
with the support of the Congressional
Black Caucus. To see him standing
there with the rest of us, honored to
join Congressman JOHN LEWIS on the
day of announcement a while back, a
year and a half, 2 years ago, and now in
the majority for us to have the privi-
lege to bring this legislation to the
floor, I thank Congressman CICILLINE
for being a champion of equality in our
country.
Again, I salute the Congressional
Black Caucus, JOHN LEWIS, and so
many others, including Mr. CLEAVER,
who will speak later today.
It is a deeply powerful moment to be
on this floor to talk about this impor-
tant legislation. What I would like to
do is take the opportunity in the time
that I will use to salute the countless
activists, advocates, outside orga-
nizers, and mobilizers who have coura-
geously demanded the full fairness and
justice that are the rights of all Ameri-
cans.
On this floor, many of us, including
Mr. HOYER, we all go way back when
we sparred for funding for HIV and
AIDS. We were successful not only be-
cause of our inside maneuvering but
because of the outside mobilization.
We were successful in passing fully
inclusive hate crime legislation. Bar-
ney Frank led the way for us inside,
but the outside groups were mobilizing,
mobilizing, mobilizing.
Under the leadership of President
Barack Obama—and we salute him for
it—we were able in the Congress in the
majority to pass the repeal of Don’t
Ask, Don’t Tell, to put that into the
dustbin of history. It was successful be-
cause of the activism of our outside
groups and advocates.
Then, of course, the horrible Defense
of Marriage Act, I don’t know what
marriages they were defending, but the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.017 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3943
May 17, 2019
Defense of Marriage Act that was pro-
posed by some of our colleagues on the
other side of the aisle, the Supreme
Court gave us that answer about jus-
tice in our country.
Then there was the ending of the
hateful ban on transgender military
service.
For this Congress, this has been the
scene where we have fought the fight
on legislation, fought the fight to
present the case in the court of public
opinion and to bolster the case in the
Supreme Court.
On this monumental day, my
thoughts are with Phyllis Lyon and the
late Del Martin, who shared their lives
together for decades. They were men-
tors for civic engagement to many of
us in San Francisco for decades. Some
of that civic engagement related to
LGBTQ rights. They were an inspira-
tion, as I say, to many of us.
People say to me, ‘‘It is easy for you
to be for some of these things because
you are from San Francisco. People are
so tolerant there.’’ I say, ‘‘Tolerant?
That is a condescending word to me.
This is not about tolerance. This is
about respect of the LGBTQ commu-
nity. This is about taking pride.’’
That is what we do today. For Phyl-
lis and Del and other older LGBTQ cou-
ples, LGBTQ workers striving to pro-
vide for their families, for the young
people, the LGBTQ youth, this is a
transformative moment.
Fifty years after LGBTQ Americans
took to the streets outside of New
York’s Stonewall Inn to fight against
harassment and hate, we take pride in
the progress we have forged together.
Our Founders, in their great wisdom,
wrote in our beautiful preamble of the
blessings of liberty, which were to be
the birthright of all Americans.
b 1030
To bring our Nation closer to the
founding promise of liberty and justice
for all, we today pass the Equality Act
and finally fully end discrimination
against LGBTQ Americans. LGBTQ
people deserve full civil rights protec-
tion in the workforce and in every
place, in education, housing, credit,
jury duty service, and public accom-
modations. No one should be forced to
lose his or her job, their home, or to
live in fear because of who they are and
whom they love.
This is personal. It is not just about
policy. It is about people. Earlier this
year I received a letter from a trans
woman living in San Francisco who has
faced threats, stalking, and harass-
ment because of who she is.
She says in her communication:
The fear is very much there. All I want to
do is live my life like anyone else. Please
keep seeing me.
Today and for all days, we say to all
of our friends: We see you, we support
you, and we stand with you with pride.
We look forward to a swift, strong,
successful, and, hopefully, strongly bi-
partisan bill today for equality. This is
not just an act of Congress that we are
taking for the LGBTQ progress to the
community. This is progress for Amer-
ica.
Mr. Speaker, I urge an ‘‘aye’’ vote.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. STEUBE).
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in opposition to H.R. 5.
To begin, I would like to echo the
comments of my colleagues and ex-
press my deep concern for the grave
consequences this bill would have for
religious freedom. This bill would deny
religious organizations their religious
liberty rights guaranteed under the Re-
ligious Freedom Restoration Act of
1993 and force many religious institu-
tions to go against their beliefs or risk
being in violation of the law. As a na-
tion we cannot turn our back on our re-
ligious liberties.
Now, while the religious freedom as-
pects of this legislation are by far the
most egregious, there is also another
area of serious concern—the effects of
the legislation on female athletes at
all levels of sporting competition
across our country.
Twice during the consideration of
this bill, I have offered an amendment
to ensure that our daughters are pro-
vided an equal playing field in sports
for generations to come and that fe-
male athletes are not competing
against male athletes for athletic
scholarships and title IX funding. And
twice partisan politics have stopped
this commonsense proposal from being
added to this bill.
This provision would have simply
guaranteed that biological women are
not forced to compete against biologi-
cal men at all levels of athletic com-
petition. Science has proven time and
time again that there is a significant
performance difference between bio-
logical males and females from puberty
onward.
From percentage of lean muscle, to
heart size, to body fat, to joint angles,
the bodies of men and women are dis-
tinctly unique and produce a vast dif-
ference in performance ability when it
comes to certain activities. In fact,
there is an average 10- to 12-percent
performance gap between elite biologi-
cal male and female athletes.
These differences are largely due to
the large influx of testosterone males
receive during puberty. Science is very
clear here—there is no doubt that tes-
tosterone is the reason that biological
men, as a group, perform better than
women in sports. That is why both men
and women dope with androgens that
are high in testosterone.
On average, in elite biological male
athletes, there is 30 times more testos-
terone present, leading to physical
characteristics that almost guarantee
a higher rate of success in sporting
events. But don’t take my word for it.
Here are examples: CeCe Telfer, a bi-
ological male, won three titles in the
Northeast-10 Championships for wom-
en’s track and received the Most Out-
standing Track Athlete award.
Fallon Fox, a biological male, shat-
tered female fighter Tamikka Brents’
eye socket and gave her a concussion.
Brents said she never felt so over-
powered in her life.
Gabrielle Ludwig, a 50-year-old, 6-
foot-8-inch, 230-pound biological male
led the Mission College women’s bas-
ketball team to a national champion-
ship with the most rebounds.
The list goes on and on. I, for one,
don’t think it is fair or equal to make
young, biological women compete
against biological males. This bill
claims to fight for equality, but it
seems to be far from equal for the
young, female athletes across our
country.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote against this bill.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Arizona
(Mr. STANTON), who is a distinguished
member of the Judiciary Committee.
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 5, the Equality Act. I want to
thank my friend and fellow recovering
mayor, Congressman CICILLINE, for his
strong and unwavering leadership on
this historic civil rights legislation.
When it comes to equality, there is
no doubt that we have come a long
way. But following the landmark Su-
preme Court ruling that legalized gay
marriage in all 50 States, the hard
truth is that discrimination based on
sexual orientation is still permitted
under the law.
LGBTQ individuals face this reality
every day—that they may receive dif-
ferent, unfair treatment in employ-
ment, housing, public accommoda-
tions, public education, and more. We
are better than that. We are a nation
that believes all are created equal, that
this truth is self-evident.
I rise today in fervent support of the
Equality Act because everyone should
be treated equally no matter who they
are, whom they love, or how they ex-
press themselves. Whether you are in
Phoenix or Philadelphia, Mesa or
Montgomery, you deserve to be seen, to
be heard, and to be welcomed.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Utah
(Mr. MCADAMS).
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to ask Mr. CICILLINE if he will en-
gage with me for the purpose of a col-
loquy.
Mr. CICILLINE. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. MCADAMS. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island.
Mr. CICILLINE. Yes, I would be
happy to engage my colleague from
Utah.
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I want
to confirm and clarify in our debate
today that H.R. 5 does not change our
Nation’s longstanding First Amend-
ment right to free religious exercise,
speech, and association.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.019 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3944 May 17, 2019
I understand that houses of worship
will not be affected in their religious
observances by the public accommoda-
tions provisions in H.R. 5. The current
exemption in title II of the Civil Rights
Act remains in place, so chapels, tem-
ples, synagogues, mosques, and other
houses of worship will continue to have
legal certainty to practice their reli-
gion, conduct services, and affiliate
with fellow members of their religion,
as well as engage and welcome others
not of their faith in their houses of
worship for religious activity or faith
practice, as they do now.
Mr. CICILLINE. Yes, that is correct.
H.R. 5 adds protected classes to title II
of the Civil Rights Act but does not re-
vise the exception for private estab-
lishments not open to the public,
meaning houses of worship can con-
tinue their practices as before, includ-
ing limiting admission or attendance
to members of their faith.
Mr. MCADAMS. To also clarify, is it
your understanding nothing in H.R. 5
compels a clergy member to perform a
religious ceremony in conflict with
their religious beliefs?
That is, faith groups can continue to
perform marriages, blessings, baptisms,
and other practices for their own mem-
bers and consistent with their beliefs,
consistent with their First Amendment
rights, correct?
Mr. CICILLINE. Yes. H.R. 5 does not,
nor could any legislation, supersede
the First Amendment. H.R. 5 allows
the standard set by prior civil rights
law to not interfere with worship and
religious practices by religious organi-
zations.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself 1 minute to just basi-
cally respond to that colloquy, because
it is really interesting because none of
us, especially myself, has said anything
about houses of worship. We do know
that is the bridge too far.
What we are concerned about in the
bill is where it says any of these
groups, affiliations, Catholic affili-
ations, Jewish affiliations who get Fed-
eral money to do other things, they
would come under this, and this is
where the RFRA protections is some-
thing.
So, the conversation here was nice. It
provided a great cover, but it did not
answer the question that many of us
have asked in this process as we go for-
ward. So I get that.
Also, as we look at this further, this
is why we have asked to see if we could
do this in a different way and do it in
a better way to define these terms and
to protect all parties in this, and not
just run hastily into something that
could cause problems in the future.
This colloquy was nice but did not
answer the underlying question.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 5, the
Equality Act.
I chair the Education and Labor
Committee’s Civil Rights and Human
Services Subcommittee, and in our
hearing on this important bill, we
heard powerful testimony from Kim-
berly, the mother of Kai, an 8-year-old
transgender girl. Kimberly is an evan-
gelical minister from rural Texas. Her
family and Kai’s school were not sup-
portive, and, in fact, school adminis-
trators made derogatory comments
about Kai.
Kimberly testified that, regretfully,
she gave into pressure and attempted
home conversion therapy on Kai when
Kai was only 4 years old. One day she
found Kai praying for Jesus to take her
home to be with Him forever.
Let me say that another way: A 4-
year-old was suicidal.
Kimberly is now today a fierce advo-
cate for her daughter’s rights and the
rights of all transgender kids to go to
school in a safe and supportive environ-
ment. This bill will secure that right
for all the kids like Kai around the
country and will secure the right to be
free from discrimination for millions of
LGBTQ people in our country.
I want to close with the words from
Federal Judge Michael McShane, and
his marriage equality opinion. He
wrote: ‘‘Many suggest we are going
down a slippery slope that will have no
moral boundaries. To those who truly
harbor such fears, I can only say this:
Let us look less to the sky to see what
might fall; rather, let us look to each
other and rise.’’
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. STEVENS).
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in a jubilant manner, because
every American deserves to be treated
equally under the law.
I rise today in support of the basic
and common principles enshrined in
our Constitution, of liberty and justice
for all, that no person shall be denied
or be discriminated by their sexual ori-
entation.
I rise today in support of the Equal-
ity Act that we must proudly pass
today led by my friend, DAVID
CICILLINE.
For in this country, in this year, 2019,
we must choose acceptance to grow our
economy and to promote the general
welfare.
I rise because it is time to pass the
Equality Act for full civil rights pro-
tections for all LGBTQ Americans. So
many sacrificed so I could stand here
today and speak these words. Passing
this bill will send a powerful, bipar-
tisan message to members of the
LGBTQ community that they are not
second-class citizens.
Today we must vote to pass the
Equality Act.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. I reserve
the balance of my time, Mr. Speaker.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Rhode Island (Mr. LANGEVIN).
(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, as a
proud member of the LGBTQ Equality
Caucus, I rise in strong support of the
Equality Act, a bill championed by my
good friend and fellow Rhode Islander,
Congressman DAVID CICILLINE.
Mr. Speaker, every person deserves
to be treated equally, no matter who
they are or whom they choose to love.
But the simple fact of the matter is
that LGBT Americans face discrimina-
tion in this country every day, whether
it is in the workplace, the foster care
system or the housing market.
Mr. Speaker, discrimination is never
justified, and we cannot let it stand. As
a person who lives with a disability, I
know what discrimination feels like. I
have experienced discrimination many
times in my life. I don’t like it when it
happens to me, and I don’t want it to
be experienced by anyone else. It is
just plain wrong.
So, Mr. Speaker, let’s celebrate our
diversity by promoting a culture of tol-
erance, inclusion, and acceptance, in-
stead of one of fear and hate. Let’s
treat LGBT people with the dignity
and respect that they deserve. Let’s
honor the strength and the courage of
the LGBT people throughout history,
and let’s pass the Equality Act to for-
ever secure the civil rights of members
of the LGBT community.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleague,
Congressman CICILLINE, for his leader-
ship on this issue.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. LEE).
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
want to thank Chairman NADLER for
yielding and for his tremendous leader-
ship on this issue.
Also, I have just got to acknowledge
and thank Congressman DAVID
CICILLINE for his steady and strategic
leadership in bringing this bill to the
floor. I, too, was at the first press con-
ference with our great warrior, JOHN
LEWIS, and it has been so exciting and
uplifting to see the progress and the
process in bringing this bill to the
floor.
b 1045
Mr. Speaker, as a cofounder of the
LGBTQ Equality Caucus, along with
our dear former colleague Congressman
Barney Frank, I rise today in support
of H.R. 5, the Equality Act. This crit-
ical bill, of course, would end discrimi-
nation against LGBTQ Americans once
and for all.
Now, as an African American woman,
it is my moral responsibility to fight
discrimination wherever and against
whomever it raises its ugly head. The
Equality Act will ensure that there is
clear, lawful protection for LGBTQ
Americans under the Civil Rights Act.
What is more, this bill will ensure that
no one lives in fear because of their
gender identity or sexual orientation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.021 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3945
May 17, 2019
Let me be clear. It is un-American
that in 30 States it is still legal—mind
you, legal—to discriminate against
LGBTQ Americans in employment, in
housing, in education—in every aspect
of their lives.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentlewoman an additional 30 sec-
onds.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker,
this discrimination disproportionately
affects LGBTQ people of color. This is
a shame. Discrimination must end
against everyone.
And, yes, Mr. Speaker, as a person of
faith, my religion teaches me to love
thy neighbor as thyself and to do unto
others as you would have them do unto
you. So let’s pass the Equality Act
today so there will be, truly, liberty
and justice for all.
Again, I thank Congressman DAVID
CICILLINE for this today.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman
from Utah (Mr. STEWART).
Mr. STEWART. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman and others who have
worked on this.
Mr. Speaker, I am so disappointed in
this legislation. I have been involved,
in my time in Congress, with leaders
from various LGBTQ and other organi-
zations representing good people, as
well as religious leaders, in an effort to
find common ground to satisfy two im-
portant priorities.
Yes, of course—of course—we should
treat each other with fairness and with
dignity. I believe that all people in
America should live their lives free of
any discrimination. But we also have
to defend the first freedom, the
foundational liberty, the amendment
and the principle upon which all other
liberties are based.
People of faith, who are also good
people, deserve to have the right to ex-
press their sincerely held religious be-
liefs without compulsion from the Fed-
eral Government.
This bill, unfortunately—and more
than unfortunately. I mean sadly, dis-
appointingly, this bill makes abso-
lutely no effort to do that. It makes no
effort to find common ground.
What a wasted opportunity.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. LYNCH).
Mr. LYNCH. Mr. Speaker, first of all,
I want to rise in support of H.R. 5, Mr.
CICILLINE’s bill, the Equality Act.
I rise today as a Christian. Mr.
Speaker, this bill will extend the legal
protections provided by the Equal Pro-
tection Clause of the United States
Constitution as well as the Civil Rights
Act against discrimination based on
sexual orientation and gender identity.
And may I say that it is about time.
This groundbreaking legislation spe-
cifically bans wrongful, hurtful dis-
crimination in housing, employment,
education, and other business and gov-
ernment sectors based on sexual ori-
entation and gender identity.
Individuals from the LGBTQ commu-
nity are our fellow Americans. Many of
them are Christians. They are our
brothers and sisters. And it is, indeed,
shameful that it has taken this very
long to provide them with equal pro-
tection under the law.
The Declaration of Independence is,
again, a guide. It is instructive as it re-
minds us: ‘‘We hold these truths to be
self-evident, that all men are created
equal, that they are endowed by their
Creator with certain unalienable
rights.’’
In closing, none of that can happen
without equal treatment under the
law.
‘‘All’’ means all. ‘‘Equal’’ means
equal. Let’s vote for equality.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Maine (Ms. PINGREE).
Ms. PINGREE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chair for yielding the time, and I
want to thank my friend, colleague,
and fellow New Englander, Mr.
CICILLINE, for his courage, his persever-
ance, and, frankly, his political talents
at moving this bill forward and bring-
ing us here today. And I am not going
to cry in my minute.
I am proud that my home State of
Maine is among the 21 States that has
already enacted these protections. For
almost 15 years, Mainers have stood
against bigotry to provide equal access
to housing, employment, and public es-
tablishments for our LGBTQ commu-
nity.
And, guess what. The sky did not fall
when we passed protections, and, in
fact, our State is a better, more inclu-
sive place because of it. Having guaran-
teed civil rights for our LGBTQ neigh-
bors means we value the health, safety,
and dignity of every Mainer.
But LGBTQ Mainers should have the
same rights they enjoy in our State
when they are outside of our State.
This Congress must stand together in
recognizing the humanity and the civil
rights of all LGBTQ people, wherever
they may live or travel.
The Equality Act will ensure LGBTQ
citizens have equal access to employ-
ment, education, housing, credit, and
all public services—public services
which their tax dollars fund, by the
way.
It is time to extend these civil rights
to everyone, no matter who they love
or how they identify. I urge my col-
leagues in the House to recognize that
we must equally protect all members of
our community under the law.
Let’s pass the Equality Act.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Flor-
ida (Ms. SHALALA).
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, in Flor-
ida and many other States, LGBTQ
Americans are still at risk of being
fired, evicted, and denied services be-
cause of their sexual orientation or
gender identity.
LGBTQ people confront discrimina-
tion throughout their entire lives, from
harassment that youth face at school
to the bias that older, same-sex couples
experience when they are denied hous-
ing in retirement communities.
In the gallery today is Christian
Bales, an openly gay and gender-non-
conforming student who was barred
from delivering his valedictorian
speech at his high school on account of
his sexuality. Two nights ago, Chris-
tian was honored with the 2019 Hugh M.
Hefner First Amendment Award for
Education.
Today, we will take a crucial step in
standing up for people like Christian
by passing H.R. 5.
Mr. Speaker, 2019 is the 50th anniver-
sary of the uprising at Stonewall and
the birth of the modern LGBTQ move-
ment. There is no better way to honor
the decades-long struggle for dignity
and equality for LGBTQ people than
for our elected leaders in Congress to
pass this legislation.
I am proud to support H.R. 5.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded not to reference oc-
cupants of the gallery.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, how
much time do I have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York has 101⁄2 min-
utes remaining.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. DOGGETT).
Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, too
many Americans face severe discrimi-
nation because of whom they love.
LGBTQ rights are civil rights. They
are human rights.
Participating and contributing equal-
ly, regardless of gender identity or sex-
ual orientation, brings us closer to the
self-evident truth that, while we are
not all created the same, in a just de-
mocracy, we are all created equally.
Despite State Republican hostility,
City of Austin ordinances have long
protected against the same discrimina-
tion we are combating today. City con-
tractors have complied with these ordi-
nances, whose requirements set the
standard for our community.
Both Austin and San Antonio enjoy
perfect municipal Equality Index
scores from the Human Rights Cam-
paign. With this bill, we set the same
type of standard for our entire country.
Mr. Speaker, 1,400 businesses in the
Texas Competes coalition have sent a
clear message in favor of inclusion and
against discrimination.
We need strong Federal enforcement.
That is what this bill does.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentleman an additional 30 sec-
onds.
Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, we need
strong Federal enforcement since local
governments have imperfect tools and
often have been stifled by narrow-
minded State legislatures.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.023 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3946 May 17, 2019
No American’s civil rights should de-
pend upon their ZIP Code. Don’t stand
in the doorway. Let’s pass the Equality
Act today.
Among many who have been strong
advocates for this act, I particularly
honor Sam Smoot and Robert Salcido
with Equality Texas; Julian Tovar and
Sissi Yado with the Human Rights
Campaign; and, of course, our col-
leagues, Congressman CICILLINE and
Congressman POCAN.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ENGEL), the chair of the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 5, the
Equality Act.
Currently, it is legal to fire an indi-
vidual, prevent access to credit, and
even deny or evict someone from their
home just because they are LGBTQ.
The Equality Act will guarantee Fed-
eral protections by ensuring the
LGBTQ community is provided full
protections under Federal civil rights
laws. No longer will our fellow Ameri-
cans be deprived from buying a home,
fired from their job, or denied a meal
in a restaurant just because of who
they are.
I am as pleased to help pass this
landmark bill today as I was back in
1996 when I voted against the discrimi-
natory DOMA, or, so-called, Defense of
Marriage Act.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
support of this bill.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Colo-
rado (Ms. DEGETTE).
Ms. DEGETTE. Mr. Speaker, it is a
fundamental precept of our beautiful
country that we have equality for all.
But, sadly, in this Nation, we have not
had equality for every person until
now.
Two-thirds of the LGBTQ community
have faced discrimination, and this is
simply wrong, and it is simply un-
American.
I thank Mr. CICILLINE for bringing
this important piece of legislation to
the floor.
How ironic that my LGBTQ constitu-
ents can get married to each other but
still, in 29 States, can be discriminated
against in their jobs, in public edu-
cation, and even in their jury service.
This is wrong; this is un-American;
and today’s bill, the Equality Act,
rights this wrong that has been so long
in coming.
I congratulate everybody.
I urge all of my colleagues to send a
strong bipartisan statement: This is
America; everybody has equal rights in
all areas.
b 1100
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Colo-
rado (Mr. NEGUSE), a distinguished
member of the Judiciary Committee.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee for his leadership, and, in par-
ticular, Representative CICILLINE for
his courage and his leadership in bring-
ing this bill to the floor.
It is long past time that we end dis-
crimination against those in the
LGBTQ community in our country, and
that is why I am so proud to support
the Equality Act.
Fairness, equality—these are core
American values. And yet today, in
many States across the United States,
Americans can be fired, can be denied a
mortgage, or they might struggle in
being able to obtain housing, all be-
cause of their sexual orientation or
gender identity.
That ends with the passage of the
Equality Act. Every American is equal
under the law.
And so I would say to my friends at
Out Boulder County back home, thank
you for your activism. To my friends at
One Colorado, thank you for your ac-
tivism. To every LGBTQ American who
has stood up and has fought for equal-
ity over a generation, I say thank you.
And to the Members gathered here
today, I implore you: Let’s join to-
gether, and let’s pass the Equality Act
today and end discrimination once and
for all.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Penn-
sylvania (Ms. DEAN), a distinguished
member of the Judiciary Committee.
Ms. DEAN. Mr. Speaker, there are
hard votes and there are easy votes.
The hard votes involve competing val-
ues and difficult tradeoffs; the easy
ones give us a chance to express our
core American values loudly and clear-
ly.
H.R. 5 is the right vote, and I thank
Representative CICILLINE for his hard
work and his heart in bringing this
piece of justice to us.
In most States, same-sex couples can
be denied service in restaurants, fired
from jobs, and evicted from homes with
no legal recourse. In other words, they
can be mistreated or discriminated
against, and their government won’t
stand up for them.
H.R. 5 will end that. This bipartisan
legislation will ban discrimination
against LGBTQ people in housing, em-
ployment, credit, public accommoda-
tions, and so much more. It says that
we don’t care who you love, but we do
care that you are treated with decency
and respect.
This legislation takes us the next
step in a long American tradition of ex-
panding civil rights and protections. It
affirms that, in this country, there is
no ‘‘us’’ and ‘‘them,’’ it is just us.
This is a historic day. I am proud to
be a part of it. Let’s cast aside old prej-
udices and cast a vote for justice and
equality.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, how
much time do I have left?
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York).
The gentleman from New York has 5
minutes remaining.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
Mexico (Mr. LUJÁN).
Mr. LUJÁN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of the Equality Act
because equality and fairness are core
American values.
Right now, fairness is not codified in
our justice system, and it is long past
time to end discrimination.
When half of Americans live in a
State without legal protections for
LGBTQ individuals, that is not equal-
ity.
When LGBTQ Americans can be fired,
evicted, and discriminated against be-
cause of who they are, who they love,
or how they identify, that is not jus-
tice.
The opportunity before us is a his-
toric one. I want to thank my col-
leagues who have led the effort to bring
this bill to the floor.
My colleagues who vote ‘‘no’’ on this
will be judged.
Mr. Speaker, this is something that
we should be working on together. We
will pass the Equality Act for the dig-
nity of all Americans.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the distinguished gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. LEWIS), the con-
science of the House.
Mr. LEWIS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend from New York for yielding.
I thank DAVID, my friend and my
brother, for his leadership.
Today is May 17. On May 17, 1954, the
United States Supreme Court issued a
decision. I remember that decision. I
was 17 years old. I thought I would be
attending the segregated school. It
never happened for me.
Today, on this day, we have an oppor-
tunity to send a message now, to help
end discrimination in our country and
set all of our people free.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will remind all persons in the
gallery that they are here as guests of
the House and that any manifestation
of approval or disapproval of pro-
ceedings is in violation of the rules of
the House.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), the distinguished
majority leader of the House.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I regret
that the Chamber is not full of Mem-
bers or that the gallery is not jammed
with people, for this is a historic day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.039 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3947
May 17, 2019
Many Members have quoted that ex-
traordinary doctrine of civil rights and
human rights articulated by our
Founders 243 years ago: ‘‘We hold these
truths to be self-evident.’’ I tell people
that they may be self-evident, but they
are not self-executing.
Today, we will take another step in a
long journey toward a more perfect
Union. Today, we will take a step, and,
hopefully, it will be as it was in 1957
when we passed the Civil Rights Act
that year; hopefully, it will be as it was
in 1964 when we passed that civil rights
bill; and, hopefully, it will be as we
voted on the Disabilities Act in 1990.
All of those bills were passed in a bi-
partisan fashion; and, yes, there were
bipartisan votes against those bills,
some from my party and some from my
colleagues on the Republican side. My
presumption is, and my hope is, that
those who voted ‘‘no’’ on those civil
rights bills looked back and said: I
made a mistake. That was not the vote
I should have made.
Every Democrat will vote for this
bill. Every Democrat will stand up and
say this is another step in the quest for
a better America, a more just America,
a more accepting America. That is
what we have the opportunity to do
today.
I hope that many, if not all, of my
Republican colleagues will stand not
for party, not for policies of party or
partisanship, but stand for principles
enunciated 243 years ago but still not
yet fully realized.
That is what this day is about.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of this bill, which I know will pass, but
I hope, as I have said, it passes with a
very strong bipartisan conviction and
confirmation of the fact that ‘‘we hold
these truths to be self-evident.’’ This is
an opportunity for the House to come
together and reject discrimination and
exclusion.
I am proud to be an original cospon-
sor of the bill that Mr. CICILLINE put
forward. The Equality Act is about
America. It is about who we are, what
we are, and what we believe.
I want to commend the LGBTQ com-
munity and the Equality Caucus for
being at the forefront of promoting full
equality, equal justice, and equal op-
portunity for LGBTQ people and their
families in this country.
The world looks to us as the strong-
est supporter, historically, of human
rights and equal rights. Have we al-
ways been so? No, we have not.
My party was the segregationist
party for many years, and we said no to
that. We walked away from that. We
said that was not the party we were
going to be.
Of course, all of us were not members
of that part of the party, but this day,
we should all stand and say, yes, we be-
lieve that all men and all women and
all people are created equal, by God,
and endowed not by the Constitution,
not by this body, but endowed by their
Creator with certain unalienable
rights, and among these are life, lib-
erty, and the pursuit of happiness, and
the right to live as you are.
Yes, we make judgments on what you
may do, but not who you are. You may
be Black; you may be White; you may
be a woman; you may be a man; you
may be a homosexual; you may be a
lesbian; you may be a trans; you may
be anything other than what I am; but
you are entitled, from me and from
your country, to respect and equal
treatment, as we said 243 years ago.
Sadly, some States still permit dis-
crimination against LGBT people in
those areas that have been discussed.
We need to put an end to that and en-
sure that all people in this country, no
matter where they live, are protected
against hate and bigotry, exclusion and
discrimination. The opportunities this
country offers must be open to every-
one in our country.
When I first ran for office in 1966 for
a seat in the Maryland State Senate,
fair housing was the issue, and the
proposition was you didn’t have to sell
your house to somebody whose color
was different than yours even though
they had the ability to buy it and they
wanted to move into that neighbor-
hood.
This issue that we consider today is
different in particular, but not in prin-
ciple. That idea is at the very core of
our American society: that opportuni-
ties exist for all of our people.
Throughout our history, we have re-
inforced this idea with the passage of
the 14th Amendment, the 19th Amend-
ment, the 1964 Civil Rights Act, the
Fair Housing Act, the Americans with
Disabilities Act, and others. We uphold
this commitment to a fair and more
just society with passage of this Equal-
ity Act.
b 1115
Surely, we ought to be able to agree.
Republicans, Democrats, liberals, con-
servatives, Northeast, South, and West,
surely, we can agree that all men and
all women are created equal and are de-
serving of equal treatment.
Let’s come together to make that
promise of our Founders ring true.
The Bible says, ‘‘Love your neighbor
as yourself.’’ Not love your straight
neighbor, not love your Christian
neighbor, not love your White neigh-
bor, not love your native-born neigh-
bor, not love your neighbor of some
other distinction, but, ‘‘Love your
neighbor as yourself.’’
That means, in my view, love your
gay neighbor, love your lesbian neigh-
bor, love your trans neighbor. It means
love your Muslim neighbor; love your
Jewish neighbor; love your African
American, Latino, and Asian American
neighbor; love your immigrant neigh-
bor.
Love your neighbor, not your hy-
phenated neighbor, because we are all
created equal.
Martin Luther King, a century after
the Civil War, said to America that we
are not living out the promise of Amer-
ica. He called us to conscience. He
called us to be America. He called us to
be that light to the rest of the world.
So today, we say we will judge on
content of character. We will be Amer-
ica. We will be the best we can be of
America.
Like we did on so many of the civil
rights bills that have come before us,
again let us vote overwhelmingly to
confirm America’s promise to its peo-
ple and to the world. Vote for this
critically important statement of
America’s values.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I inquire of the chairman if he has
any more speakers or if he is ready to
close.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I was
going to ask the gentleman the same
thing. I have no further speakers. I am
prepared to close.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I am prepared to close, and I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, we have heard a lot of
debate, and we have heard a lot of
issues today.
One of the issues that I want to bring
up today is, again, as I started out in
my opening statement, no one on our
side and no one who disagrees with this
bill is saying anyone ought to be treat-
ed wrongly or badly in any way. That
is not who we are. In fact, we have
struggled with that on this floor.
This bill, I can agree with the intent.
I agree with the fact that no one
should be.
But my friend, the majority leader,
just made a statement. He quoted
scripture, and it was a good one. It says
love your neighbor. And I agree with
him. I have talked about it. I have
preached on that many years now. But
it also didn’t say, ‘‘Love your neigh-
bor,’’ and then, ‘‘I have to agree with
my neighbor.’’
We can love each other and disagree.
We love each other and disagree, and
then we come into this place with this
bill. That is where it gets not amor-
phous, not the intent, not what we
want to do to make us feel better. It
actually is how we then legislate this.
This bill is just not a good attempt.
It is an imperfect step toward making
something that others want to be right
but, in the end, runs a real risk of caus-
ing others harm at the same time.
It is a risk that is brought on by
rushing something. Even if it has been
talked about for 5 years, the legislative
part has been rushed, Mr. Speaker.
I understand the concern. I under-
stand the anxiety. But let’s make it
right. Let’s at least have an open de-
bate. Let’s discuss it here.
It is interesting to me that we had to
have a colloquy on the floor to assuage
some Members that this bill would not
attack a worship service or who could
lead a worship service or if a minister
would actually have to do a service
that would be against their personal
faith beliefs.
The bill does not talk about that, but
it does leave an open issue of public ac-
commodation and how somebody would
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.026 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3948 May 17, 2019
look at public accommodation in a
church setting. That is an honest ques-
tion that needs to be answered.
It does bring up a lot of questions.
What if a church or a religious organi-
zation accepts Federal money? What if
a Catholic church accepts school lunch
programs? What if a Jewish synagogue
accepts money for homeland security?
At that point, for the programs that
they have, the bill says if you receive
Federal money, you fall under this. Do
they then have to violate their own
faith beliefs?
Making one group of people deny
their faith while trying to give another
one a leg up is still wrong. It is not
equal.
The questions that we have here
today are honest disagreement. It is
honest disagreement, but not in the
sense of, if you take this, you have
made a gender identity claim that is
self-professing.
As was just said a moment ago, we
talk about great ideas like the Civil
Rights Act and the ADA. Disability
under the ADA can be shown objec-
tively, and I agree. As the father of a
daughter who has spina bifida and is in
a wheelchair, I can show objectively
what that actually means. I am proud
of that legislation. I was not here. I
wish I had been because I have seen it
open up.
In this bill, it says simply, ‘‘Gender
identity as I proclaim it at that mo-
ment.’’ This is where our problems
come.
Mr. Speaker, that is why I would say
vote ‘‘no’’ on the bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, this morning, we have
heard phantom fears about the alleg-
edly harmful effects of the Equality
Act on religious freedom and women’s
rights. If these fears had any basis in
reality, the Equality Act would not
have been endorsed by more than 500
civil rights, women’s rights, religious,
medical, and other national and State
organizations, including the American
Medical Association, the Central Con-
ference of American Rabbis, the Epis-
copal Church, the Lawyers Committee
for Civil Rights Under Law, the Lead-
ership Conference on Civil and Human
Rights, the NAACP, the National Alli-
ance to End Sexual Violence, the Na-
tional Coalition of Anti-Violence Pro-
grams, the National Women’s Law Cen-
ter, NETWORK Lobby for Catholic So-
cial Justice, the Rabbinical Assembly,
and the United Methodist Church’s
General Board of Church and Society.
It has also been endorsed by dozens of
business associations, including the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Na-
tional Association of Manufacturers,
and the Sports and Fitness Industry
Association.
Mr. Speaker, the time has come to
proclaim liberty and equality through-
out the land.
Mr. Speaker, I now commend the bill
to the judgment of the House, and I
commend the House to the judgment of
history.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
strong support of H.R. 5, the Equality Act.
All Americans, regardless of background,
should have the ability to live their lives with
dignity and free from discrimination. Equal
treatment under the law is a fundamental
American principle, and this important legisla-
tion provides legal safeguards against dis-
crimination for LGBTQ individuals.
This is historic civil rights legislation that the
House is considering today. Specifically, it
would modify existing civil rights law to extend
anti-discrimination protections to LGBTQ
Americans, including protections against dis-
crimination in employment, housing, access to
public places, federal funding, credit, edu-
cation, and jury service.
As an original cosponsor of the Equality Act,
I strongly support its final passage. I am unfor-
tunately not able to attend today’s important
vote, but I am proud to support H.R. 5 and
would have voted in favor of this bill.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker,
H.R. 5 puts the Hyde Amendment and other
federal and state laws that bar taxpayer fund-
ing for abortion at serious risk.
H.R. 5 also weakens conscience protections
for health care providers opposed to being co-
erced into participating in the killing of unborn
babies.
H.R. 5 defines ‘‘sex’’ to include ‘‘pregnancy,
childbirth, or a related medical condition.’’ The
term ‘‘related medical condition’’ means ‘‘abor-
tion.’’ In the case Doe v. C.A.R.S., the Third
Circuit stated, ‘‘We now hold that the term ‘‘re-
lated medical conditions’’ includes an abor-
tion.’’ Furthermore, the Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission (EEOC), which enforces
Title VII, interprets abortion to be covered as
a ‘‘related medical condition.’’
To further clarify, the bill goes on to state:
(b) RULES.—In a covered title referred to in
subsection (a)—‘‘(l) (with respect to sex)
pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical
condition shall not receive less favorable
treatment than other physical conditions;
. . .
In other words, a provider may not withhold
a ‘‘treatment option,’’ including ending the life
of an unborn baby.
In a legal analysis released today, the
United States Conference of Catholic Bishops
states:
Existing prohibitions on the use of govern-
ment funds for abortion can be undercut in
three ways.
First, federal and state governments are
themselves providers of health care. There-
fore, they would themselves be subject to the
constraints that the Equality Act places on
all health care providers and, as such, would
likely be required to provide abortions. This
conclusion is reinforced by the bill’s expan-
sive definition of ‘‘establishment,’’ which is
not limited to physical facilities and places.
Second, it would seem anomalous to, on
the one hand, mandate that recipients of fed-
eral funds provide abortions, as the Equality
Act can be read to do, but, on the other
hand, prohibit use of such funds for abor-
tions. It can (and likely will) be argued that
these newly-enacted provisions, which would
likely require recipients of federal funding to
perform abortions, would thereby repeal by
implication previously-enacted legislation
forbidding the use of those very same funds
for abortion.
Third, even if the bill were not construed
to require the federal government to fund
abortions, it could still be construed to re-
quire states that receive federal funding to
do so with their own funds, which would be
a departure from the longstanding principle
that the federal government not require gov-
ernment funding of abortion even on the part
of state governments.
The possibility that the Equality Act may
be used to undercut the Hyde principle
against government funding of abortion has
been noted even by those endorsing the bill.
Katelyn Burns, New Congress Opens Door for
Renewed Push for LGBTQ Equality Act (Dec.
5, 2018), https://rewire.news/article/2018/12/05/
new-congress-opens-door-lgbtq-equality-act/.
But instead of denying that this problem ex-
ists, or (even better) urging an amendment
to avoid it, one supporter of the bill has sug-
gested that the issue simply ‘‘has to be navi-
gated super carefully.’’ Id. In other words,
there is a problem and the suggested ‘‘fix’’ is
simply to keep it from becoming politically
visible.
I include in the RECORD the full analysis by
the United States Conference of Catholic
Bishops for the record. I am also submitting
an analysis by National Right to Life (NRLC)
that lists similar concerns and provides further
insight into these issues.
[From the Secretariat of Pro-Life Activities]
THE EQUALITY ACT: ITS IMPACT ON
GOVERNMENT FUNDING OF ABORTION
The Equality Act will likely have an ad-
verse impact on existing provisions that pro-
hibit the use of federal funds for abortion.
Below we review relevant provisions of the
bill. We then consider the likely con-
sequences for current restrictions on federal
funding of abortion.
I. TEXT OF THE EQUALITY ACT
The followings bill provisions are relevant.
I. Public accommodations. The Equality
Act (H.R. 5) forbids discrimination based on
‘‘sex,’’ including ‘‘sexual orientation and
gender identity,’’ in places of ‘‘public accom-
modation.’’ H.R. 5, § 3(a)( 1 ). The bill defines
‘‘public accommodation’’ to include ‘‘any es-
tablishment that provides . . . health care
. . . services.’’ Id. § 3(a)(4). The term ‘‘estab-
lishment’’ is not limited to physical facili-
ties and places. Id. § 3(c). The term ‘‘sex’’ in-
cludes ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or a related
medical condition.’’ Id. § 9(2). The bill also
states that ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or a re-
lated medical condition shall not receive less
favorable treatment than other physical con-
ditions.’’ Id.
2. Federally-funded programs and activi-
ties. The bill also forbids discrimination
based on ‘‘sex,’’ including ‘‘sexual orienta-
tion and gender identity,’’ in any program or
activity receiving federal financial assist-
ance. Id. § 6. The term ‘‘sex’’ is again defined
to include ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or a re-
lated medical condition,’’ and the listed
items ‘‘shall not receive less favorable treat-
ment than other physical conditions.’’ Id.
§ 9(2).
II. CONSEQUENCES FOR FEDERAL FUNDING OF
ABORTION
These changes in federal law will likely
undercut existing prohibitions on the use of
government funds for abortion.
For years it has been an accepted predicate
in federal bill drafting that laws forbidding
discrimination based on ‘‘sex’’ must have
abortion-neutral language to blunt any in-
ference that non-discrimination requires the
provision or coverage of abortion. Title VII
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and Title IX
of the Education Amendments of 1972, are il-
lustrative. Both titles forbid discrimination
based on sex, and both titles have abortion
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.028 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3949
May 17, 2019
neutral amendments to mitigate or foreclose
the claim that this prohibition requires a
covered entity to provide or cover abortion.
The fact that abortion-neutral language ap-
pears in Title VII and Title IX shows that
Congress knows how to exclude abortion
when it wants to. The failure to include an
abortion-neutral amendment in the Equality
Act therefore suggests a legislative intent to
require the provision of abortion; otherwise,
the Act, like Titles VII and IX, would have
included such language. This conclusion is
reinforced by (a) the bill’s definition of sex
to include ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth, or a re-
lated medical condition,’’ (b) agency and ju-
dicial interpretations construing this lan-
guage, and (c) the added qualification that
pregnancy and ‘‘related medical condition[s]
shall not receive less favorable treatment
than any other physical conditions.’’
The same reasoning—and the same conclu-
sion—applies to the bill’s non-discrimination
provisions as applicable to federally-funded
programs and activities. Indeed, abortion ad-
vocates themselves are currently reading the
federal funding provisions of the bill to per-
mit women to successfully challenge the de-
nial of abortion.
Existing prohibitions on the use of govern-
ment funds for abortion can be undercut in
three ways.
First, federal and state governments are
themselves providers of health care. There-
fore, they would themselves be subject to the
constraints that the Equality Act places on
all health care providers and, as such, would
likely be required to provide abortions. This
conclusion is reinforced by the bill’s expan-
sive definition of ‘‘establishment,’’ which is
not limited to physical facilities and places.
Second, it would seem anomalous to, on
the one hand, mandate that recipients of fed-
eral funds provide abortions, as the Equality
Act can be read to do, but, on the other
hand, prohibit use of such funds for abor-
tions. It can (and likely will) be argued that
these newly-enacted provisions, which would
likely require recipients of federal funding to
perform abortions, would thereby repeal by
implication previously-enacted legislation
forbidding the use of those very same funds
for abortion.
Third, even if the bill were not construed
to require the federal government to fund
abortions, it could still be construed to re-
quire states that receive federal funding to
do so with their own funds, which would be
a departure from the longstanding principle
that the federal government not require gov-
ernment funding of abortion even on the part
of state governments.
The possibility that the Equality Act may
be used to undercut the Hyde principle
against government funding of abortion has
been noted even by those endorsing the bill.
Katelyn Burns, New Congress Opens Door for
Renewed Push for LGBTQ Equality Act (Dec.
5, 2018), https://rewire.news/article/2018/12/05/
new-congress-opens-door-lgbtq-equality-act/.
But instead of denying that this problem ex-
ists, or (even better) urging an amendment
to avoid it, one supporter of the bill has sug-
gested that the issue simply ‘‘has to be navi-
gated super carefully.’’ Id. In other words,
there is a problem and the suggested ‘‘fix’’ is
simply to keep it from becoming politically
visible.
If the intent were otherwise, then pro-
ponents of the bill would (and should) say so
in the actual text of the bill.
NATIONAL RIGHT TO LIFE COMMITTEE, INC.
Date: May 16, 2019.
Re: Memorandum: H.R. 5, the Equality Act,
and Implications on the Hyde Amend-
ment.
H.R. 5, the Equality Act, contains language
that could be construed to create a right to
demand abortion from health care providers,
and likely would place at risk the authority
of the government to prohibit taxpayer-fund-
ed abortions.
Historically, when Congress has addressed
discrimination based on sex, rules of con-
struction have been added to prevent requir-
ing funding of abortion or nullifying con-
science laws. No such rule of construction is
contained in H.R. 5.
Section 9 of the Equality Act would amend
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (CRA) by defin-
ing ‘‘sex’’ to include ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth,
or a related medical condition.’’ It is well es-
tablished that abortion is regarded as a ‘‘re-
lated medical condition.’’ See 29 C.F.R. pt.
1604 App. (1986) and Doe v. CARS Protection
Plus, Inc., 527 F.3d 358 (3d Cir. 2008).
With abortion regarded as a pregnancy-re-
lated medical condition, H.R. 5 goes on to
state that ‘‘pregnancy, childbirth. or a re-
lated medical condition shall not receive less
favorable treatment than other physical con-
ditions.’’
While the CRA had previously prohibited
discrimination in certain places of ‘‘public
accommodation,’’ such as hotels, res-
taurants, and places of entertainment, H.R. 5
amends the CRA definition of ‘‘public accom-
modations’’ to include any ‘‘establishment
that provides health care.’’ The bill states
that the term establishment ‘‘shall be con-
strued to include an individual whose oper-
ations affect commerce and who is a provider
of a good, service, or program.’’ This provi-
sion would apply to individual health care
providers who object to abortion, including
those with religious objections (indeed, the
bill explicitly overrides the protections con-
tained in existing federal law under the Reli-
gious Freedom Restoration Act, 42 2U.S.C.
2000bb et seq.).
Further, there is an additional provision
that goes on to state that health care pro-
viders ‘‘shall not be construed to be limited
to a physical facility or place.’’
So to the extent that non-physical enti-
ties, including States administering Med-
icaid, could be considered an ‘‘establishment
that provides health care,’’ funding restric-
tions, including the Hyde Amendment, will
be put in jeopardy.
In late 2018, Executive Director Mara
Keisling of the National Center for
Transgender Equality said in an interview,
‘‘The worry is that extending sex-based pro-
tections to government programs could cre-
ate a backdoor legal challenge to abortion
restrictions like the Hyde amendment, which
could potentially threaten whatever conserv-
ative support the bill may have.’’
From 1973, when abortion first became
legal, until 1980, when the Hyde amendment
first took effect, the joint federal-state Med-
icaid program was paying for roughly 300,000
abortions annually.
In Harris v. McRae, 448 U.S. 297 (1980),
the Court upheld the Hyde Amend-
ment, which restricted federal funding
of abortion to cases where the mother’s
life was endangered (rape and incest
exceptions were later added). While the
Court insisted that a woman had a
right to an abortion, the state was not
required to fund the exercise of that
right.
Currently, 17 states fund Medicaid cov-
erage of abortion voluntarily or have laws in
place requiring funding (of these, 13 are due
to court decisions). Twenty-seven (27) states
and the District of Columbia have laws that
limit funding to cases of life endangerment,
rape, and incest; six states limit abortion
funding to a lesser extent.
Even if, under H.R. 5, the federal Hyde
amendment was still applied to block federal
funds for Medicaid abortions, States cur-
rently not funding abortion, under Title VI
as federal funding recipients, could now face
challenges to require them to use their own
state or local funds for Medicaid abortions.
Further, the CRA Sec. 20l(d) and Sec. 202 ex-
plicitly supersede state laws for purposes of
‘‘public accommodations’’ law.
For example, in New Mexico, which adopt-
ed a state Equal Right Amendment (ERA),
the state affiliates of Planned Parenthood
and NARAL relied on this state ERA in a
legal attack on the state version of the Hyde
Amendment, prohibiting Medicaid funding of
elective abortions. The case was NM Right to
Choose / NARAL v. Johnson, No. 1999–NMSC–
005. In its 1998 ruling, every justice on the
New Mexico Supreme Court agreed that the
state ERA required the state to fund abor-
tions performed by medical professionals,
since procedures sought by men (e.g., pros-
tate surgery) are funded. If enacted, H.R. 5
would open the door for widespread similar
litigation wherein any attempt to restrict
the funding of abortion would constitute dis-
crimination.
Enactment of H. R. 5 would open the door
to legal challenges that will amount to this:
pregnancy-related medical conditions (in-
cluding abortion) could not be treated less
favorably than other physical conditions, so
any ‘‘public accommodation’’ that treats
abortion differently from procedures than
other procedures constitute discrimination.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to voice my support for H.R. 5, the Equality
Act. This landmark legislation would prohibit
discrimination against LGBTQ individuals
across key areas of life including employment,
housing, credit, education, public spaces and
services, federally funded programs, and jury
service.
We must address the fact that, in 30 states,
LGBTQ people are at risk of being fired, re-
fused housing or denied services simply be-
cause of who they are. Far too many students
face bullying or worse because of their sexual
identity, and far too many Americans—teach-
ers, nurses, and state employees—face uncer-
tainty and discrimination in the workplace and
in their day-to-day lives. In fact, nearly two-
thirds of LGBTQ Americans report having ex-
perienced discrimination in their personal lives.
Our nation’s civil rights laws protect people
from discrimination on the basis of race, color,
national origin, and, in most cases, sex, dis-
ability and religion. Unfortunately, federal law
does not provide consistent nondiscrimination
protections based on sexual orientation or
gender identity. The need for these protections
is clear: We must put an end to this type of
discrimination immediately.
We know from our nation’s rich history in
advancing the rights of citizens that strong
federal laws are often needed to protect vul-
nerable groups of people. Because H.R. 5 ex-
plicitly prohibits discrimination based on sexual
orientation and gender identity in fundamental
areas, it will finally give LGBTQ people the
long-overdue protections and rights under fed-
eral law.
The reality is that our country is strongest
when all Americans can be who they are,
without fear of bias, discrimination or inequal-
ity in their workplaces or communities. I am
pleased that the House is taking the much-
needed action to ensure the core American
values of equality and fairness are applied to
members of the LGBTQ community in all cir-
cumstances. I urge my colleagues of the
House to pass this critical legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17MY7.022 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3950 May 17, 2019
Pursuant to House Resolution 377,
the previous question is ordered on the
bill, as amended.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of H.R. 5 is postponed.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 215, nays
191, answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting
24, as follows:
[Roll No. 215]
YEAS—215
Adams
Allred
Amodei
Arrington
Bacon
Banks
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Collins (GA)
Cooper
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Crist
Cuellar
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Granger
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Hollingsworth
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kim
King (IA)
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Matsui
McCarthy
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Moore
Morelle
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Perry
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reschenthaler
Richmond
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Roybal-Allard
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Simpson
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Wexton
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—191
Abraham
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Barr
Bera
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Correa
Costa
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crow
Cummings
Cunningham
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kilmer
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Panetta
Pence
Peters
Porter
Posey
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Ruiz
Scalise
Schrader
Schrier
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sherrill
Shimkus
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Spanberger
Spano
Steube
Suozzi
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Torres Small
(NM)
Upton
Van Drew
Walberg
Walorski
Waters
Wild
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Tonko
NOT VOTING—24
Brady
Bucshon
Burchett
Clyburn
Dingell
Duffy
Gohmert
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
LaHood
Moulton
Peterson
Ratcliffe
Rogers (AL)
Rose (NY)
Ryan
Smucker
Swalwell (CA)
Turner
Walker
Weber (TX)
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Young
b 1145
Messrs. GALLAGHER, THOMPSON
of California, JORDAN, COSTA, and
FLEISCHMANN changed their vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. CARSON of Indiana, KEN-
NEDY, Mses. KAPTUR, and TLAIB
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So the Journal was approved.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
f
EQUALITY ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of the bill (H.R. 5) to pro-
hibit discrimination on the basis of
sex, gender identity, and sexual ori-
entation, and for other purposes, will
now resume.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Speaker, I have a
motion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. STEUBE. I am in its present
form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Steube moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 5 to the Committee on the Judiciary
with instructions to report the same back to
the House forthwith with the following
amendment:
Add at the end of the bill the following:
SEC. 13. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act or any amendment
made by this Act may be construed to dimin-
ish any protections under title IX of the
Education Amendments of 1972.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman is recog-
nized for 5 minutes in support of his
motion.
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Speaker, I want to
make it abundantly clear exactly what
this motion to recommit does, so I am
going to read it. It is very short.
‘‘Nothing in this act or any amend-
ment made by this act may be con-
strued to diminish any protections
under title IX of the Education Amend-
ments of 1972.’’
The threat that this bill poses for
women’s sports at every level is pro-
found. As described by the Nation’s
leading expert on sports, sex, and biol-
ogy, Professor Doriane Lambelet Cole-
man, she states: ‘‘There is a significant
performance difference between males
and females. . . . Testosterone is the
primary driver of that difference.
There is a wide gap, no overlap, be-
tween the male and female testos-
terone ranges. . . . There is no sci-
entific doubt that testosterone is the
reason that men as a group perform
better than women in sports. Indeed,
this is why men and women dope with
androgens. . . .’’
Requiring that biological females
face competition from biological males
will mean the end of women’s sports in
any meaningful sense.
As tennis great Martina Navratilova
has written in The Washington Post:
‘‘In its current form, the Equality Act
would do significant damage to title IX
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.030 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3951
May 17, 2019
and to the Amateur Sports Act, which
governs sports outside of educational
settings. The new legislation would
amend the 1964 Civil Rights Act by re-
defining ‘sex’ to include ‘gender iden-
tity.’ Without an exception, the defini-
tion would apply to all amendments to
the 1964 act, including title IX. Most
schools, colleges, the NCAA, and the
Olympic Committee would be affected
because they receive Federal funds and
operate in interstate commerce.
‘‘The legislation would make it un-
lawful to differentiate among girls and
women in sports on the basis of sex for
any purpose. For example, a sports
team couldn’t treat a transgender
woman differently from a woman who
is not transgender on the grounds that
the former is male-bodied. Yet the re-
ality is that putting male- and female-
bodied athletes together is co-ed or
open sport. And in open sport, females
lose.
‘‘Some Equality Act advocates argue
that this is hyperbole and outdated
stereotype. They say, as the ACLU has,
that there is ‘ample evidence that girls
can compete and win against boys.’
They are wrong. The evidence is un-
equivocal that starting in puberty, in
every sport except sailing, shooting,
and riding, there will always be signifi-
cant numbers of boys and men who
would beat the best girls and women in
head-to-head competition. Claims to
the contrary are simply a denial of
science.’’
Those are not my words. Those are
the words of female tennis great
Martina Navratilova.
In footnote 44 of the committee re-
port on this bill, the Democrat major-
ity states: ‘‘The committee acknowl-
edges that the addition of sex as a pro-
tected characteristic under title VI of
the bill raises some questions about
how the revised title VI should be read
in relation to title IX of the Education
Amendments Act. It is the committee’s
intention not to alter in any way title
IX or the scope or availability of its ex-
emptions as they currently stand.
Rather, title IX and the revised title VI
should be read as being complimentary
provisions that provide overlapping
protection against sex discrimination.’’
But, of course, we all know that al-
lowing biological males to compete
against biological females is not an
‘‘overlapping protection.’’ It is, in-
stead, a violation of women’s rights to
engage in competitive sports on an
even playing field and to enjoy the pro-
tection of their own spaces reserved for
biological females.
So this motion to recommit is essen-
tial to protecting the rights of women
and girls in sports that H.R. 5 cur-
rently denies.
Even the Obama administration
wrote a letter to schools regarding
title IX enforcements making clear
that they should continue to be able to
enforce policies that are ‘‘tailored re-
quirements based on sound, current,
and research-based medical knowledge
about the impact of the individual’s
participation on the competitive fair-
ness or physical safety of the sport.’’
Adoption of this motion to recommit
will not kill the bill. It will not delay
the bill’s consideration. If this motion
to recommit is adopted, the bill pro-
ceeds directly to final passage.
If H.R. 5 becomes law, our daughters
will be asking us: ‘‘What did you do
when moves were made to eliminate
women’s sports?’’ It is worth consid-
ering that question now before it is too
late.
I urge all my colleagues to join me in
protecting title IX and protecting
women’s sports and supporting this
motion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I rise to oppose the motion to recom-
mit with all of my heart.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I can’t believe that we are standing
here and having a man tell me what
kind of protection I need in sports.
This is fear-mongering about trans
women playing in sports. Are you kid-
ding me?
I don’t know if my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle realize that they
have met trans people, but they have.
They definitely have. I have met many,
and this motion reflects nothing more
than the prejudice of my colleagues.
My staff has put together a lot of
talking points for you today, but it is
much simpler than that. The Equality
Act ensures that LGBTQ women and
girls who are lesbian, bisexual, or
transgender will all have the same op-
portunities as their peers in sports, in
housing, and in jobs.
The discrimination that trans indi-
viduals face just trying to live their
lives every single day is something be-
yond what most of us could ever imag-
ine.
Through my work and the issue of
homelessness, I saw trans women dis-
proportionately affected by discrimina-
tion at every single stage of their lives.
They have higher rates of poverty,
higher rates of sexual abuse, higher
rates of homelessness.
And I can tell you, no trans person is
trying to game the system to partici-
pate in sports. That does not happen,
and that is a sad scare tactic that has
no place on the floor of the people’s
House.
State schools and athletic organiza-
tions across the country have found for
many years that letting LGBTQ stu-
dent athletes, including girls and
women who are transgender, partici-
pate in sports does not harm women’s
and girls’ sports in any way.
As an athlete, athletic success is
based on so many factors, like indi-
vidual ability and strength, and those
abilities vary widely for people who
aren’t even trans. It has nothing to do
with whether someone is transgender
or not. In fact, major advocates for
women and girls in sports, such as the
National Women’s Law Center, the
Women’s Sports Foundation, Women’s
Leaders in College Sports, and others,
support trans-inclusive policies and op-
pose efforts to exclude transgender peo-
ple from participating in sports.
This is not a new concept. Trans peo-
ple have participated in sports for
years. Stop the fear-mongering. This is
2019, and we are not afraid of the
boogieman that you are trying to cre-
ate. We are ready to move forward and
tell all of our constituents, all of our
communities, all Americans that they
matter equally.
You, my colleagues, are on the wrong
side of history, and we will be waiting
for you on the other side when we re-
ject this amendment and pass H.R. 5.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from New Hampshire (Mr. PAPPAS).
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, thank
you to my colleague, Representative
HILL from California, my fellow co-
chair of the Equality Caucus, as she
rightfully notes nothing—nothing—in
the Equality Act infringes upon wom-
en’s rights. If it did, we wouldn’t be
supporting it so vociferously today.
This MTR is an army of words
marching in search of an issue that
doesn’t exist. For those of us who have
been involved in the fight for equality,
this tactic isn’t new or surprising. We
have seen it before. We have seen the
deliberate distractions, the unfounded
fears, the faulty arguments on our way
toward progress.
This legislation simply gives LGBTQ
individuals full equality—nothing more
and nothing less.
When we end legal discrimination in
housing, employment, and public serv-
ices, we will steer our Nation closer to
the full realization of its founding prin-
ciples and the notion that we are all
created equal.
As a proud member of the LGBTQ
community, I can attest that attitudes
in this country have changed for the
better, and it is time that our laws
catch up. Congress can send a message
to LGBTQ Americans everywhere that
we see you, that we celebrate you for
who you are.
This vote will change laws, and it
will save lives.
In passing the Equality Act today,
we can say, unequivocally, that every-
one matters, that everyone can be
themselves, that no one should live in
fear or be treated as a second-class cit-
izen in the United States of America,
not today and not ever—full equality
under the law, nothing less and nothing
more.
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on
this motion to recommit. I welcome
you to become a part of history. Join
us on the right side of history. Do the
right thing today. Vote ‘‘no’’ on this
MTR, and stand for full equality for
the LGBTQ community.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.033 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3952 May 17, 2019
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Speaker, I demand
a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of passage.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 181, noes 228,
not voting 23, as follows:
[Roll No. 216]
AYES—181
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Lipinski
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOES—228
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—23
Brady
Bucshon
Burchett
Clyburn
Dingell
Duffy
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
LaHood
Moulton
Pence
Peterson
Ratcliffe
Rose (NY)
Ryan
Smucker
Swalwell (CA)
Turner
Walker
Weber (TX)
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Young
b 1204
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 236, noes 173,
not voting 23, as follows:
[Roll No. 217]
AYES—236
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—173
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.035 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3953
May 17, 2019
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—23
Brady
Bucshon
Burchett
Clyburn
Dingell
Duffy
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
LaHood
Moulton
Peterson
Ratcliffe
Rose (NY)
Ryan
Smucker
Steube
Swalwell (CA)
Turner
Walker
Weber (TX)
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Young
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). The Chair will remind all
persons in the gallery that they are
here as guests of the House and that
any manifestation of approval or dis-
approval of proceedings is in violation
of the rules of the House.
b 1212
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated against:
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, due to my
only daughter, Amie Westerman, having her
wedding rehearsal dinner on Friday, May 17,
2019, I will not be present for the vote on H.R.
5, The Equality Act. Had I been present for
the vote, I would have recorded a Nay vote.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. ROSE of New York. Mr. Speaker, due
to a death in my family, I had to miss votes
on Thursday, May 16 and Friday, May 17.
Had I been present, I would have voted:
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 210, McKinley Amend-
ment No. 2 to H.R. 987; ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No.
211 Harder Amendment No. 6 to H.r. 987;
‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 212 Wexton Amendment
No. 21 to H.R. 987; ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 213
Motion to Recommit for H.R. 987; ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 214 Final Passage for H.R. 987;
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 216 Motion to Recommit
for H.R. 5; and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 217 Final
Passage for H.R. 5.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. BUCSHON. Mr. Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on May 17, 2019, in order
to deliver the Commencement Address at the
Concordia Seminary in Saint Louis, Missouri.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’
on rollcall No. 215, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 216,
and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 217.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker, I was
absent during this morning’s vote on final pas-
sage of H.R. 5 due to travel for an unavoid-
able medical appointment back in Ohio. Had I
been present for this vote on H.R. 5, I would
have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 215, ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 216, and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 217.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will remind all persons in the
gallery that they are here as guests of
the House and that any manifestation
of approval or disapproval of pro-
ceedings is in violation of the rules of
the House.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that the Committee on
the Judiciary be discharged from any
further consideration of H.R. 962, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I urge the
Speaker to immediately schedule this
important legislation that will protect
equality of life for the unborn.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
ADJOURNMENT FROM FRIDAY,
MAY 17, 2019, TO MONDAY, MAY
20, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet on Monday next, when it shall
convene at noon for morning-hour de-
bate and 2 p.m. for legislative business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I rise for
the purpose of inquiring of the major-
ity leader the schedule for next week,
and I yield to the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. HOYER), my friend.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, on Mon-
day, the House will meet at 12 p.m. for
morning-hour debate and 2 p.m. for leg-
islative business, with votes postponed
until 6:30 p.m. On Tuesday and Wednes-
day, the House will meet at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate and 12 p.m. for
legislative business. On Thursday, the
House will meet at 9 a.m. for legisla-
tive business.
We will consider several bills under
suspension of the rules. The complete
list of suspension bills will be an-
nounced by the close of business today.
The House will also consider H.R.
1500, the Consumer First Act. This leg-
islation seeks to reverse the adminis-
tration’s efforts to dismantle the Con-
sumer Financial Protection Bureau.
In addition, the House will consider
H.R. 1994, the Setting Every Commu-
nity Up for Retirement Enhancement
Act of 2019. The legislation is intended
to increase the flexibility of 401(k)
plans and improve access to the ac-
counts, particularly for small busi-
nesses and employees. The bill includes
a host of provisions aimed at encour-
aging small businesses to provide pri-
vate retirement benefits to their work-
ers.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I want to
ask about the conversations and nego-
tiations that are going on regarding
the disaster supplemental. I know the
gentleman is well aware that there are
some good, I think, very fruitful, nego-
tiations going on. Clearly, we want to
make sure about some of the things
that weren’t in the bill that went out
of the House, especially as it relates to
the crisis at the border, as it deals with
unaccompanied children, as well as
making sure that we get the right kind
of help to our farmers who had devasta-
tion to their crops in these disasters.
I ask the gentleman if he can give an
indication of a timeline.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his question.
As the gentleman knows, we passed
an initial bill some many weeks ago.
The Senate didn’t pass that. We then
passed, more recently, a bill which did,
in fact, take care of everyone we know
who has had a natural disaster in the
interim as well as those we had taken
care of the first time around.
So, we think we have a good bill that
was passed; however, as the gentleman
also referenced, the President has
asked for an additional supplemental
of a little over $4 billion referenced for
humanitarian issues at the border.
That is being reviewed.
As the gentleman probably also
knows, an offer was made to our side.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17MY7.015 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3954 May 17, 2019
That offer has now been responded to
with respect to both the initial and the
supplemental—initial, I mean the dis-
aster bill—and we are looking for an
answer back at some point in time to
our response. But, hopefully, we can
reach an agreement.
Mr. SCALISE. Hopefully, those con-
versations do continue on.
I am encouraged by the negotiations
in terms of how both sides seem to be
willing to get this resolved and, hope-
fully, quickly, ideally, if we could have
a bill on the floor next week that
would be a very bipartisan bill to ad-
dress this so that we can get the relief.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Clearly, if we get an
agreement—and that, of course, is the
big if, but, hopefully, we can. If we can
do that, then we will want to move as
quickly as possible.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I do want
to ask about the appropriations process
because I know the gentleman from
Maryland had talked earlier this week
about a desire to have the entire appro-
priations process completed by the end
of June. He also talked about a robust
amendment process.
I would just ask the gentleman, as we
look at this week, the concerning trend
that we have been talking about a few
weeks now, when amendments came
out of the Rules Committee this week,
26 amendments came out that were of-
fered by Democrats, and only 1 amend-
ment was allowed by a Republican.
As the gentleman from Maryland
talks about a robust appropriations
process, I would hope he would pay
closer attention to fairness in that
robustness, because 26 Democrat
amendments allowed and only 1 Repub-
lican amendment allowed is surely not
a fair process. It might be considered
robust, but in a hyperpartisan sense.
So I hope as we get into the appro-
priations process the gentleman, and
especially the leadership from the
Rules Committee, would take into ac-
count that this is a process where the
House should be able to come together
and offer their ideas and let the will of
the House prevail, but at least allow
for that debate here on the House floor
on as many amendments as possible in
as fair a way as possible.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman
for his comment. We have had this dis-
cussion on a number of occasions.
I am convinced that Mr. MCGOVERN,
the chairman of the Rules Committee,
does, in fact, want to have the kind of
process that we talked about and that
the gentleman just referenced. He also
knows that, in the last Congress, we
had the most closed rules of any Con-
gress in which I have served, and per-
haps in history, 103 closed rules.
But having said that, I am hopeful
that the gentleman’s side will come
forth with amendments that are, as the
gentleman says, subject to rational de-
bate and are not gotcha amendments. I
am not alleging they are gotcha
amendments, but that is obviously a
concern that the gentleman had when
he was in charge and that we have
when we are in charge.
But I know that Mr. MCGOVERN
wants to have a fair process, and we
are talking about that, so we will con-
tinue to do that.
Mr. SCALISE. I appreciate that, and,
again, we will be watching and, hope-
fully, see that they become more fair
as we get into that appropriations
process.
Finally, I would like to ask the gen-
tleman about legislation that has been
filed that is a companion to a Senate
bill that passed the Senate with a vote
of 77 votes to stand up against the BDS
movement.
As we both know, and I know the
gentleman has been supportive of these
efforts, the concern is that Israel con-
tinues to come under attack by many
countries around the world trying to
delegitimize their economy and
delegitimize their status as a Jewish
state by this movement to undermine
their economy, to boycott and divest
from Israel.
So we have legislation. The com-
panion bill is H.R. 336 by Mr. MCCAUL
from Texas. It doesn’t have the con-
cerns. There were some concerns over
the way that the Senate bill came over,
but at least we do know, because of the
vote, with 77 votes, it was a very bipar-
tisan vote.
There is strong concern by the Sen-
ate to address this and strong concern
by many Members of the House, Repub-
lican and Democrat, to stand up to the
BDS movement, and not just in words.
Clearly, there are resolutions out
there. We can all give speeches and say
that we are against it, but it actually
takes real action and real effort, things
that are in the legislation that give
teeth to our stand against BDS and for
Israel.
Of course, if you look at some of the
examples in the legislation, not just
words, but $33 billion in military as-
sistance to Israel, security cooperation
enhancements, things that ensure that
Israel maintains a qualitative edge to
defend itself from the daily threats
that, unfortunately, we see from other
countries and terrorist organizations
that want to undermine their status as
a Jewish state.
With that, could the gentleman give
us an indication, would there be a
timeline that we can establish to bring
this bill to the floor short of the dis-
charge petition?
There is a discharge petition with
more than 180 signatures already on it
to bring this bill to the floor, but it
would be a lot better if it were truly bi-
partisan from both leadership sides
saying that we are willing to stand up
against this movement, not just in
words, but in deeds.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. First of all, I would say
words are important. That is why we
all debate, because we think words are
important.
But having said that, I share the gen-
tleman’s view, as he well knows, with
reference to the BDS movement, which
I think is contrary to the interests of
our ally, Israel, and contrary to our
own interests.
Having said that, as I indicated to
the gentleman last week, I have been
discussing this with Mr. ENGEL, and he,
as you know, shares the view which I
have expressed and my friend has ex-
pressed, and his committee is going to
be addressing that, I expect, in the
near term. When they do, we will de-
cide what actions to take at that point
in time, and I look forward to dis-
cussing it with the gentleman.
Mr. SCALISE. We will continue to
discuss it. I appreciate that.
Clearly, as we have an interest in not
just expressing our words, like on
many other important issues, we have
to back that up with laws, legislation
that gives teeth to the words and gives
true support to our friends, especially
Israel, in such a time of need where
this movement is growing. And we
want to move as quickly as possible, so
we will continue to have this conversa-
tion and, hopefully, get a formal
timeline as soon as possible.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. My friend mentioned
there are essentially four components
of the bill to which he referred, three of
which are noncontroversial, as the gen-
tleman knows, and one of which has
issues with respect to its constitu-
tionality. Without resolving that issue,
the three that are in that bill, I think,
enjoy bipartisan support. They were
held up in the Senate, as the gen-
tleman probably knows, but we want to
make sure those three certainly are
adopted.
Mr. SCALISE. Clearly, the Senate
looked at that as well and worked
through that. They actually made
some changes to the bill which we con-
formed into this. The discharge peti-
tion has a rule that will actually con-
form it to the Senate to address those
issues.
Again, the Senate bill got 77 votes,
highly bipartisan, especially on such
an important issue. So, hopefully, we
will continue those conversations and
come to an agreement on a timeline
that is expedited.
Mr. Speaker, unless the gentleman
has anything else, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
b 1230
MORAL ARC OF THE UNIVERSE
BENDS TOWARD JUSTICE
(Mr. LOWENTHAL asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. LOWENTHAL. Mr. Speaker, if we
hold true to the idea that America
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.041 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3955
May 17, 2019
stands for equality, equity, and diver-
sity, then equal rights must apply to
and be protected for all Americans.
No American should be discriminated
against because of their sexual orienta-
tion or gender identity. Yet, despite
the historic accomplishments toward
equality over the past decade, LGBTQ
Americans still face systemic discrimi-
nation.
We know the fight for equality is al-
ways on the right side of history, and
today’s passage of the Equality Act is
a much-needed step forward in that
fight.
Today’s vote allows us to see the
moral arc of the universe, as Martin
Luther King, Jr., said, bend toward jus-
tice.
f
TRIBUTE TO TOMMY TICE
(Mr. WOMACK asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor one of Arkansas’ most
successful football coaches, Tommy
Tice of Huntsville, Arkansas, who re-
tires this month after 42 years in
coaching and athletic administration.
Coach Tice coached more football
games as a head coach than anyone in
Arkansas history: 454 games. He had a
combined record of 288 wins, 160 losses,
and 6 ties, an overall winning percent-
age of 63 percent.
He was selected head coach of the Ar-
kansas All-Star football game six
times. He had a State championship, 13
conference titles, and 19 playoff ap-
pearances.
An Arkansas Sports Hall of Fame in-
ductee in 2016, Coach Tice has been a
teacher and mentor to dozens of coach-
es throughout the State of Arkansas.
He is one of my best friends, and I
can’t think of anyone more impactful
on student-athletes than Coach
Tommy Tice. I congratulate him on a
remarkable career, and I wish him well
in his retirement.
f
HONORING NEVADA ASSEMBLY-
MAN TYRONE THOMPSON
(Mr. HORSFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the life of Nevada
Assemblyman Tyrone Thompson, who
recently passed.
Tyrone’s passion for service and com-
munity was reinforced by action. He
was constantly on the front lines advo-
cating for children in family court as a
CASA advocate. Through his life-
coaching and mentoring efforts, he
spearheaded the annual Clark County
Summer Business Institute, providing
summer college and career exploration
for high school students.
When Tyrone had the opportunity to
be appointed and then elected to the
Nevada Assembly in District 17, he
made it his mission to propose new
ideas to move Nevada forward and
bring an experienced and pragmatic
voice to the challenges our State faces.
He became a leader and champion for
increased funding, for more equitable
education for all students, and for
making our schools and communities
safe from gun violence.
Tyrone was always present, leading
the way to make the North Las Vegas
community and the people in it strong-
er, whether it was working tirelessly to
improve education, addressing racial
equity and inclusion, volunteering with
Camp Anytown, supporting Project
Homeless Connect and Family Connect,
or launching the My Brother’s Keeper
initiative.
At the age of 52, he still had so much
more to offer to his community, in
public service, and most importantly,
to his family.
I am proud of the work my dear
friend accomplished, and I am honored
to ensure that his legacy is perma-
nently enshrined in the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD.
May he rest in peace.
f
COMMEMORATING NATIONAL
POLICE WEEK
(Mr. RESCHENTHALER asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Mr. Speak-
er, this week, communities across the
country honored law enforcement offi-
cers in recognition of National Police
Week.
Police officers put their lives on the
line every day to protect our loved
ones and neighbors. These brave men
and women experience daily trauma
and injury. In fact, the stress endured
by our police officers contributes to a
suicide rate that is 50 percent higher
than the national average.
That is why I introduced the STOIC
Act with my Democratic colleague
from Pennsylvania, MADELEINE DEAN.
This is a bipartisan bill to better ad-
dress the mental health needs of our
law enforcement officers.
I think that Republicans and Demo-
crats should all be able to get together
to fight against suicide and for the
worthy cause of suicide prevention.
Just yesterday, the Senate passed their
version of STOIC with unanimous con-
sent.
I want us to work together to unite
our country, and I hope we can vote on
this legislation that has strong bipar-
tisan support. I hope that my col-
leagues from across the aisle will work
with us to address the mental health
needs of our Nation’s law enforcement.
f
COMMIT TO REPRODUCTIVE
JUSTICE
(Mrs. FLETCHER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of the women of this
country, for their health and for their
rights.
In this Congress, in this House, we
have worked to ensure women’s access
to healthcare, to protect women and
men with preexisting conditions, to
lower the cost of prescription drugs,
and to make healthcare more afford-
able and accessible. But in State
houses across the country, women’s ac-
cess to their most basic healthcare is
under attack. And it is not just their
healthcare that is under attack; it is
their equality.
The law passed in the Alabama State
House this week is the most extreme
and dangerous since Roe v. Wade, ban-
ning abortion at any point in preg-
nancy and threatening doctors with
life in prison.
It is not just this Alabama law; it is
laws in Georgia, Mississippi, and my
home State of Texas, and the efforts of
the current administration that result
in a dramatic reduction in women’s ac-
cess to reproductive healthcare and
basic family planning services and a
denial of their reproductive rights.
Doctors and public health leaders
agree that the cost of these laws will
be women’s lives. We cannot let that
happen.
As we work to protect our care, we
must support the women of this coun-
try and their right to safe, affordable,
nonjudgmental reproductive
healthcare. We must commit to repro-
ductive justice.
f
HONORING MISSISSIPPI’S FALLEN
OFFICERS
(Mr. GUEST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, earlier this
week, the 38th Annual National Peace
Officers Memorial Service honored the
men and women who paid the ultimate
sacrifice upholding the rule of law and
protecting the people of our great Na-
tion.
Last year, Mississippi lost five offi-
cers in the line of duty. I would like to
honor them as we remember their serv-
ice and sacrifice.
Please join me in honoring Police Of-
ficer Emmett Paul Morris, Corporal
Walter Zachery Moak, Patrolman
James Kevin White, Patrol Officer
LeAnn Simpson, and Police Officer
Robert McKeithen.
President Ronald Reagan once said
there can be no more noble vocation
than the protection of one’s fellow citi-
zens.
May we remember these brave offi-
cers, their sacrifice to protecting our
communities, and the sacrifice they
made for the people who call Mis-
sissippi home.
f
URGING THE SENATE TO PASS
THE EQUALITY ACT
(Ms. DELBENE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. DELBENE. Mr. Speaker, today, I
am proud to join my colleagues in pass-
ing the Equality Act, which ensures
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.043 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3956 May 17, 2019
that LGBTQ Americans are treated
equally.
In more than half our Nation, LGBTQ
Americans can still be fired, denied
credit, and evicted from their home
simply based on who they are and
whom they love.
It happened to someone in my State.
He was a volleyball coach at a college
in Virginia. They had just finished
their most successful season when he
was fired without explanation.
Unfortunately, in Virginia, there are
no employment protections for being
LGBTQ, so he and his family moved to
Washington State where there are pro-
tections for LGBTQ workers, and they
are thriving.
Not everyone can just pack up and
leave, and they shouldn’t have to. That
is why we need to guarantee that
LGBTQ Americans have equal rights
and protections in all 50 States, no ex-
ceptions.
I urge the Senate to take action and
pass the Equality Act so all Americans
are treated equally.
f
HONORING OMAHA POLICE
OFFICER KERRIE OROZCO
(Mr. BACON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BACON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today during National Police Week to
ask my colleagues to support H.R. 2378,
the Kerrie Orozco First Responders
Family Act.
As we approach the 4-year anniver-
sary of Omaha Police Officer Kerrie
Orozco being killed in the line of duty,
this legislation will show our first re-
sponders that we care about them and
have their back.
The Kerrie Orozco First Responders
Family Act will amend the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act to allow for
the surviving family members of a fall-
en U.S. citizen first responder to be
naturalized upon compliance with all
requirements, waiving any residency
waiting period. This bill is simply ex-
tending the privileges to first respond-
ers that current law affords to spouses
of U.S. military killed while serving
our country.
In 2015, Officer Orozco was killed. Her
husband, Hector, was going through
the immigration process. His immigra-
tion status was put in jeopardy because
his wife made the ultimate sacrifice
protecting our community.
Every day, thousands of first re-
sponders leave loved ones to risk their
lives for our safety. They need to have
the peace of mind that if something
should happen to them, their loved
ones will be taken care of.
I look forward to working with
Democrats and Republicans alike to
protect our first responders and their
families by passing the Kerrie Orozco
First Responders Family Act.
It did pass unanimously last Con-
gress. We need to pass it again, get it
to the Senate, and get it done.
RECOGNIZING CAPE MAY COUNTY
AS A COAST GUARD COMMUNITY
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, I ap-
preciate being allowed to speak to the
Members of the House.
On May 8, 2015, Coast Guard Com-
mandant Admiral Paul Zukunft pro-
claimed Cape May County a Coast
Guard Community, an honor claimed
by only 18 cities and only one other
county in the entire Nation.
The designation, which is confirmed
by the United States Coast Guard and
the United States Congress, is in rec-
ognition of a strong and special rela-
tionship between the people of Cape
May County and the local Coast Guard
personnel, making Coast Guard men
and women and their families feel a
sense of community in their home
away from home. It is an invaluable
contribution to morale and service ex-
cellence.
South Jersey is honored to have Cape
May and the Coast Guard as part of its
community.
Most of all, we should remember all
that they went through during the re-
cent shutdown. Our Coast Guard should
never have to suffer through that set of
circumstances ever again. That is why
we have sponsored legislation to pro-
tect our Coast Guard in the future.
f
b 1245
HONORING THE SERVICE OF
JASON DOMBKOWSKI
(Mr. BAIRD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Jason Dombkowski, who
is retiring after 25 years of faithful
public service with the West Lafayette
Police Department. Jason has been the
Chief of Police at the department for 11
years, serving his fellow officers and
community with integrity and profes-
sionalism.
He received his master’s degree in
Technology, Leadership, and Innova-
tion from Purdue University, and has
completed the Indiana Law Enforce-
ment Academy, the FBI National Acad-
emy at Quantico, and the U.S. Secret
Service Dignitary Protection Pro-
grams, among others.
In addition to his remarkable career,
Jason remains a steadfast pillar in the
community, known for his commit-
ment, leadership, and service. He
serves on the YWCA board, and has
been a board member for the Red Cross,
Lafayette Crisis Center, the Lafayette
Catholic Diocese Bishop’s Review
Board.
He also volunteers with the ‘‘Shop
With a Cop’’ program and coaches a
youth flag football team.
He and his wife, Cristie, have four
children, and reside in West Lafayette.
Congratulations on your retirement,
Jason. I know you will continue to
serve our community well in your new
capacity, and I wish you the very best.
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CASE). Under the Speaker’s announced
policy of January 3, 2019, the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. GOHMERT) is
recognized for 60 minutes as the des-
ignee of the minority leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, we
heard a great deal of applause today
from all around the gallery when the
so-called Equality Act passed.
Equality, what it really means is
equality for some, but if you believe
the teachings of Moses and Jesus, then
you are not only not going to be treat-
ed equally, you are going to be per-
secuted, prosecuted, tied up in court.
You will have people try to destroy
not only you, but any religious institu-
tion that tries to faithfully follow the
teachings of Moses and Jesus.
So the Equality Act is a misnomer,
as is the statement that this means the
end of persecution.
Somehow, I hear Al Pacino in the
background when it comes to persecu-
tion, saying, Oh, I’m just getting start-
ed.
So I come before the House with a
broken heart, as someone who has
studied, loved history, studied history,
continues to read more history, con-
stantly.
This Nation is in big trouble. We
have gone from the days when—I guess
the Bible is still probably the most-
quoted book, year after year, in this
body, but somehow it often is used for
personal abuse or used without giving
real context and real meaning.
But above every door in the gallery is
the side profile of what were once con-
sidered the greatest lawgivers in all of
history. Some of us learned about the
code of Hammurabi. He is up there. The
Justinian Code is next to Hammurabi.
I think there are two or three Popes
that were considered great lawgivers.
Some wonder why Napoleon is up
there, but the Napoleonic code is still
the basis of law in Louisiana.
Jefferson wasn’t there during the
Constitution, but he helped with a
great many laws and, of course, did
most of the writing of the Declaration
of Independence. But there was much
in the Constitution, or a number of
things were based on some things that
Jefferson had already worked on.
But the only profile that is not a side
profile is that of Moses.
When Prime Minister Netanyahu
spoke last in here, from this podium
behind me, the second level—some peo-
ple wonder why the President, or peo-
ple like Netanyahu speak at the second
level and not the top level, and that is
because this is the people’s House. To
speak in here you must either be a
Member of Congress or have been in-
vited by the Congress to speak here.
That is why they are at the second
level.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.044 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3957
May 17, 2019
But, at the end of Prime Minister
Netanyahu’s speech, he paid tribute to
the fact that he was facing a great
Israelite, Moses; that, like I say, at one
time he was considered the greatest
lawgiver of all times.
In view of decisions over the last 50
years, we have had a majority—the Su-
preme Court, probably has reduced his
10 commandments down to four or five.
But this bill, today, will allow perse-
cution and prosecution of anyone who
tries to faithfully follow the teachings
of Moses and Jesus.
When it comes to marriage, I know
the Supreme Court has ruled. They
have substituted a majority, at least
five judges, substituted their opinions,
and that is what they are, opinions, for
that of the law, the Constitution; be-
cause the Constitution, if you really
followed it strictly, marriage is not
mentioned as a power or something
that the Federal Government would
have power over. So, as the 10th
Amendment says, such a thing would
be left to the States and the people.
And many of us believe that is where it
should have been left.
But the Supreme Court, at least five
oligarchs, decided to take that over.
And since they were so much wiser in
their own eyes than Moses and Jesus,
they substituted their opinion for the
opinions of the people of 50 different
States and, just basically, took over
that function, without amending the
Constitution, without even changing
the law legislatively, or referendum,
any means like that. They just sub-
stituted their opinion.
It was Moses who said a man shall
leave his father and mother, a woman
leaves her home, and the two will be-
come one flesh.
When Jesus was asked—naturally the
Pharisees were testing him, trying to
trick him, but he quoted Moses ver-
batim; man shall leave his father and
mother, a woman leaves her home, the
two will become one flesh. But Jesus
added another line on to that: What
God has joined together, let no man
put asunder. Nobody separate.
There is a video called White Winds,
and in that video, the research they
have done indicated that there has
only been one time in recorded history
when legal marriage included same-sex
couples.
And, of course, those of us that have
studied history, think about, histori-
cally, the Roman Empire days, when
same-sex couples were widely accepted.
Ancient Greece, same-sex couples were
widely accepted.
But according to the research, this
indication was that they say marriage
is, basically, as being an institution for
procreation. And so marriage was a
man and woman. Have whatever same-
sex relations you want, but in those
times and places, marriage was said to
be between a man and a woman, if it
was legal.
Some of us would think back to the
days of Sodom and Gomorrah, when—
well, the term ‘‘sodomy’’ comes from
Sodom. But when same-sex relations
were widely accepted, obviously, no
discrimination.
But according to the research in the
documentary, marriage, even in Sodom
and Gomorrah, did not include same-
sex couples because marriage was for
procreation, family.
According to the research, there is
one recorded piece of information
about legalized marriage being same-
sex couples. It was from a Babylonian
Talmud that indicated that during
something called the Days of Noah,
marriage was legal between a same-sex
couple.
So, according to the research of that
documentary, we are living in days
similar to the days of Noah before the
flood.
We are now beginning, in this coun-
try, in recent years, to experience what
people fled to this country to avoid ex-
periencing, and that is, discrimination
against an individual because of their
religious belief as Christians.
Whether the Pilgrims, or so many
other groups that came, of course,
there were some, even prisoners that
came for other reasons. But in the set-
tlement of North America, what is now
the United States, over 90 percent ac-
cepted Judeo-Christian beliefs as ap-
propriate and the norm.
Some called Jefferson anything but a
Christian, but he made clear that he
believed the teachings of Jesus. The
story is told that—and I did ask the
opinion, or not an opinion, but ask for
the facts from the Congressional Re-
search Service—about this Capitol
being used as the largest Christian
church in Washington, D.C., in the Dis-
trict of Columbia.
They came back with the informa-
tion that it truly was; that what we
now call Statuary Hall—back at the
time it was the House of Representa-
tives’ Chamber—for the majority of the
1800s it was considered, or it was used
on Sundays for Christian worship serv-
ice. And Thomas Jefferson, as CRS
verified, would come to the church
service—the nondenominational, Chris-
tian worship service that was held just
down the hall—each Sunday that he
was in Washington during his time as
President.
The story is told that on one of those
occasions he was riding his horse, as he
normally did, to come to church up
here on top of Capitol Hill in the Cap-
itol. And someone saw him with a big
Bible and asked, Where are you going,
Mr. President? And he said, I’m going
to church up in the Capitol.
And the individual said, But you
don’t believe everything that they do.
And he said, Sir, I am the highest
elected magistrate in this country. It
is imperative that I set the proper ex-
ample.
So those were early beliefs. Some-
times it is hard for us to reconcile
those beliefs with the cruelty of slav-
ery.
Even Jefferson, in the first version of
the Declaration of Independence—what
looks like the longest grievance
against King George—Jefferson was
saying, We have a right to separate
from King George because of the fact
that he allowed slavery to ever start in
America.
So, on the one hand, Jefferson actu-
ally understood how destructive slav-
ery was; and on the other hand, he had
slaves.
But it is—if you look through our
history and how we improved up until
now, the great strides in civil rights,
great victories in civil rights, have
come based on a powerful push from
churches, Christian churches, and from
people who were guided by Christian
principles.
The 1730s, 1740s, 1750s, sometimes re-
ferred to as the first great awakening
in America, powerful, powerful time of
revival.
Winthrop is said to have spoken to a
majority of Americans. They knew of
him or had heard him speak. He was a
traveling evangelist.
b 1300
Many historians say it was the great
awakening and the belief in religious
freedom that drove—the belief in free-
dom that drove those early Americans
to a Revolution in standing for the
rights given by our creator and ac-
knowledging, of course, that there is a
creator.
Of course, the Constitution is writ-
ten, agreed to in 1787, ratified in 1789,
but it is concluded, it is dated, ‘‘In the
year of our Lord one thousand seven
hundred and eighty-seven,’’ and it is
referring to our Lord.
I am sure that if many judges, many
Federal judges had their way, we would
strike ‘‘our Lord’’ from the Constitu-
tion, as them thinking that is somehow
unconstitutional to mention ‘‘our
Lord’’ in our own Constitution.
But you look in the 1800s, certainly
there were secularists who saw the
damage of slavery and there were some
churches that supported it, but the
movement toward abolition was driven
by people who believed in God, most of
them in Jesus Christ.
John Quincy Adams, who ran for the
House after being President, stood up
down the hall over and over to speak
against slavery. He had written to a
guy named William Wilberforce in Eng-
land. Wilberforce had a spiritual Chris-
tian awakening and ran for parliament.
He believed God’s call on him was to
bring an end to slavery in all of the
British empire, and that is what he
spent his adult life in parliament try-
ing to do.
He had a victory at one point, par-
tially through his parliamentary ca-
reer, in getting the slave trade out-
lawed. But still slavery persisted, just
not the trade in Great Britain. And
then 3 days before he died in 1833, slav-
ery was outlawed altogether.
John Quincy Adams thought he was
supposed to bring an end to slavery in
America the way Wilberforce had
fought and successfully done in Eng-
land, but he didn’t get it done.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.046 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3958 May 17, 2019
He served in the House of Represent-
atives from 1831 until his massive
stroke in 1848. It happened when he was
trying to get up and speak against the
war with Mexico, because he was afraid
war with Mexico would end up perpet-
uating slavery even longer.
Daniel Webster, one of the great abo-
litionists, he would have crowds gather
around outside his office during times
when he would read the Bible out loud
from within his office.
I have been here in Congress since
January of 2005, and I don’t believe I
have ever heard anybody reading out
loud from the Bible and having crowds
gather around the outside of their of-
fice in the hall here at the Capitol, but
it used to happen.
Daniel Webster was driven by his
Christian beliefs that slavery had to
come to an end. He, John Quincy
Adams, so many others believed that it
was totally inconsistent. How could we
expect God to keep blessing America
when we were putting our brothers and
sisters in chains? The church-ordained
ministers were such a powerful force in
bringing an end to the evil cruelty
called slavery here in America.
Then in the 1950s and 1960s, we didn’t
have a great awakening in the 20th
century, but nonetheless, there was an
ordained Christian minister named
Martin Luther King, Jr., and he was
guided, informed by his Christian be-
liefs. He was the most powerful indi-
vidual force in moving our country
into accepting what the Constitution
said and in assuring that people would
be treated equally.
But what Congress has been doing in
recent years is passing more and more
legislation that will permit persecu-
tion of people trying to follow their
Christian beliefs, and that passed the
House today.
Born out of the best intentions of
people that don’t want to see anybody
persecuted, and yet as a result of this
bill, if it were to become law, there
would be widespread persecution and
prosecution of people who try to hold
to their Christian beliefs.
And I know our friends don’t want to
harm battered women or do damage to
women’s shelters, but I tried to encour-
age my friends, look at the literature
about women who are victims of sexual
assault.
Having been a felony judge for a dec-
ade, I heard testimony constantly
about the victims and the victims’ suf-
fering and their ongoing suffering and
their trauma that they continued to
live through and the things that trig-
gered their trauma.
It appears from the research lit-
erature that women—of course, we are
told that one out of four women will
experience sexual assault.
We are also told that it is a fraction
of 1 percent, a fraction of a fraction,
perhaps, of 1 percent of people who
truly suffer from gender dysphoria.
It used to be called a disorder. I
think it still was in the Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual IV. It for sure was
in III. But now in V, it is called gender
dysphoria, dysphoria being the oppo-
site of euphoria. It is a confusion, a dis-
satisfaction, an unhappiness with a bi-
ological gender, so gender dysphoria.
It is interesting, even in the Equality
Act itself, I mean, at one place here it
recites findings, and here on the bot-
tom of pages 6 and 7, it points out that
about one in five transgender people
experience homelessness.
Now, it doesn’t go into the reasons
for that, if that is true. And possibly
there could be discrimination that
leads to homelessness, but since this is
a condition of unhappiness, a dys-
phoria, we don’t know the reasons for
one in five, if that is correct, of people
suffering from gender dysphoria being
homeless.
But without giving that finding, you
go through the bill, this bill is going to
allow people to sue lenders who don’t
lend to people suffering from gender
dysphoria at the same rate as those
who do not suffer from gender dys-
phoria. Well, not only can those seek-
ing loans come against and sue the
bank and win, the attorney general of
the United States is authorized under
this bill to bring the full power of the
United States Government at war
against any individual who questions
or is concerned about lending money to
someone suffering from this dysphoria.
But if someone even considered the
fact that this gender unhappiness or
dysphoria, if they even considered that,
then they are going to lose the lawsuit
under this bill to the individual and to
the Attorney General of the United
States.
Now, previously, ministers were
thought to have some religious exemp-
tion. This is the first bill in American
history we could find, and it is cer-
tainly the first one since the Religious
Freedom Restoration Act of 1993, but
the first time a bill actually spells out
specifically that you cannot claim reli-
gious beliefs as a defense.
So I am not hearing people talk
about it, but I understand that Ortho-
dox Jewish synagogues believe they
should have men as rabbis.
Well, under this, if it becomes law, if
a woman comes forward and says, ‘‘I
believe I am a man and I want to be
your rabbi,’’ and they are not hired,
well, not only does that person have a
claim against the synagogue, but also
the Attorney General can come in and
destroy the synagogue financially. And
that can happen with any church.
If a church says, ‘‘We love every-
body,’’ like my own church, Christian
church, Green Acres Baptist, we love
everybody. We welcome anybody in our
church. We will not discriminate
against anybody who wants to come
worship the Lord with us. But if you
want to be married, it needs to be what
Moses and Jesus said marriage is. Well,
in the past, you could utilize religion,
religious beliefs as a defense, but if this
is the law of the land, then there will
be no defense for religious beliefs.
And, again, if White Winds is correct,
then for the first time since the days of
Noah, we have come to believe that we
are so much smarter and so much wiser
than Moses and Jesus. So it is an amaz-
ing time.
I know Christian friends say, LOUIE,
you seem so down. You know, Paul
said, ‘‘Rejoice in the Lord always, and
again I say rejoice.’’ And I understand
that, but I also know that as Jesus con-
templated Jerusalem, he had a broken
heart. He said:
How many times have I wanted to bring
you under my wing and love you and protect
you, and you wouldn’t have it.
So there is a rebellion going on in
this country, a rejection of things upon
which this country was founded.
And, you know, people try to paint
someone like me as being a hater. I am
not a hater. There is nobody in this
body I hate.
At a recent event, I had a person who
looked like a woman, she said she be-
lieved she was a woman, and we had a
talk for about 20 minutes. And I under-
stood her thinking and I understood
what she felt, though she was a biologi-
cal man. We disagreed about her life-
style, but I had nothing but Christian
love. And we hugged, agreed to dis-
agree, and hugged as we went our ways.
We were up here at the Washington
Convention Center.
I don’t hate her. I don’t hate any-
body.
Plenty of people hate me.
But it is so unfair to say that any-
body, just because they believe in the
teachings of Moses and Jesus, is a
hater. It is simply not true.
But I do know that if anybody is not
willing to forgive and love, they
haven’t really grasped what it means
to be a Christian.
b 1315
But it doesn’t mean you have to ac-
cept and encourage and applaud things
that you know are not helpful. I mean,
for heaven’s sake, the most thorough
research ever done on transgender—and
it was done, I believe it was Finland, a
30-year study, people seeking sex
change surgery—that 30-year study
found that those who were seeking sex
change surgery were 20 times more
likely to commit suicide. Now, how
could somebody who loves their fellow
man and fellow woman, how could
somebody who truly loves them want
them in a state of mind in life that
they are 20 times more likely to kill
themselves, to take that precious gift
of life they were given? How is that
loving somebody to want them, encour-
age them, Oh, you stay in this life-
style. You are ten times more likely to
kill yourself, but that is fine, we ap-
plaud you for being in that situation,
20 times more likely to kill yourself.
And there is this great study here,
‘‘The New Atlantis, a Journal of Tech-
nology and Society’’, this is from the
fall of 2016, of a special report on sexu-
ality and gender: Findings from the bi-
ological, psychological, and social
sciences, by Lawrence Mayer, MB, MS,
Ph.D., and Paul R. McHugh, MD. Dr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.048 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3959
May 17, 2019
McHugh is an amazing, brilliant man.
He was the head of psychiatry at Johns
Hopkins. Johns Hopkins was the first
hospital in the United States who did
sex change operations.
But as Dr. McHugh points out, after
about 20 years of monitoring the people
on whom they did sex change surgery,
they found that the patients who went
through this brutal, really brutal sex
change surgery, were no better off
mentally than they were before. That
was Johns Hopkins’ finding. They said:
Why should we cut off or take out per-
fectly healthy organs if the result is
the person is no better? So they quit
doing sex change operations. As I un-
derstand it, they were later threatened
with losing a lot of money in support,
so they are back doing them now.
We hear from the left all the time
about the importance of science, and
yet when it comes to science, like the
heartbeat bill based on science, we
have been told that it is nothing but a
mass of tissue inside a pregnant
woman. And yet, technology now has
gotten so good that at some 6 or 8
weeks into a pregnancy, you can hear a
heartbeat, and that heartbeat is from a
living person.
And as has been said on this floor
previously, if someone sees a body col-
lapse, you run up and check if there is
a heartbeat. If there is a heartbeat, you
call for an ambulance. If there is no
heartbeat, you call for a morgue. We
put a lot of stock in a heartbeat, so
why shouldn’t it be part of a bill? And
yet States that have passed the legisla-
tion that says there is a heartbeat,
then you can’t do an abortion, it is a
living being.
Personally, I am thankful that nur-
turing women are the ones who carry a
child in utero, because if it were left to
us men, I don’t believe there would be
near as much love and affection felt by
the child in utero.
But I think back about when our first
child was born 8 to 10 weeks pre-
maturely and my wife had to stay in
Tyler. I didn’t know whether to stay
with her or go with our child who was
taken to Shreveport, trying to keep
her alive. She said: Go. Do anything
you can for our child.
So I went to Shreveport. When I got
there, the neonatologist, Dr. Singh—
just a wonderful, wonderful doctor. He
loved those babies—he said: Look, your
baby’s eyes, they are not working prop-
erly. She can’t see you, just a general
blur. But she has been listening to your
voice for many months now. Even
though she was in the womb, she could
hear your voice. She knows your voice.
You talk to her. Stay here and talk to
her, caress, talk, that will be a great
comfort.
And as most people know, a pre-
mature child, usually the lungs are the
last to develop, and that was Katy’s
case. The breaths were so short and
just erratic, and the heartbeat was
really fast and erratic. It was in Tyler
and it was in Shreveport. After a cou-
ple hours of my sitting there and just
talking to her and caressing her little
arms and face, Dr. Singh came over and
said: Have you looked at the monitors?
And I hadn’t. I was looking at our
child.
I looked up. The breathing was still
fast, the heart was still fast, but they
had stabilized, they were not erratic.
And Dr. Sing said: She is drawing
strength from you. She is drawing life
and strength from you. Well, how was I
going to leave after that? They said I
could only stay 2 hours, but I couldn’t
leave. My child was drawing strength
from me.
So after I had been there 8 hours, he
came over and said: Sir, you really
have to leave, you have got to take a
break, you can’t sit here this long. And
I said: But look at the monitor, she is
doing well, I don’t want to leave. Even-
tually, they forced me to leave, but my
mind was back with Katy.
Anyway, that child knew my voice.
She could hear my voice those 7
months in the womb. They know. They
make a difference.
And the people who have supported
the heartbeat bill, all of them that I
am aware of here in this body, it is
based on Judeo-Christian beliefs and
the value of one person, the right to
life that precedes the right to liberty
and pursuit of happiness.
This body has been in the business of
taking away religious freedoms for
quite some time, and it appears that it
is going to continue. But, Mr. Speaker,
I just want people to understand, the
positions of the people I know of who
were against the Equality Act, it is not
out of any hate, it is not out of any de-
sire to be discriminatory, part of it is
a desire not to have people 20 times
more likely to kill themselves.
For heaven’s sake, we have enough
veterans taking their own lives, so
tragic; Americans taking their lives, so
tragic. There is not much you can say
at a funeral of someone who has taken
their life that brings a lot of comfort
to the family.
It specifically says in here, the Equal
Credit Opportunity Act, as amended,
and it says right here in the bill that
people who are transgender, one in five
will experience homelessness, without
telling us why. It says, So you have got
to give them credit. Well, we just
brought our economy to the brink of
ruin in 2008. And at some point, in the
beginning of that tragedy, we almost
lost everything, back in the nineties,
when banks were required to lend
money for homes to people who
couldn’t afford it.
And I personally feel like some of the
lenders who pushed people into homes
fraudulently that they couldn’t afford
should have done some jail time. But it
went on, it happened. A lot of lenders
have told me over the years: We are
being forced to lend money to people
we know can’t afford it, but, if we
don’t, the Federal Government is com-
ing after us. And if this bill becomes
law, that will be the case, too.
A banker who says, Well, I am a lit-
tle concerned, there is a 20 percent
chance that this person suffering from
gender dysphoria is going to be home-
less. They don’t make good decisions.
Maybe it is because of some discrimi-
nation, but certainly some of it is be-
cause of poor personal decisions. And
now I have got the Federal Govern-
ment under this Equality Act saying I
have got to lend them money anyway.
That if the fact that they are 20 per-
cent more likely to be homeless, if I
consider that at all and say, We can’t
risk that money, we don’t want to
bring the country to the brink of fail-
ure again, then the United States At-
torney General is authorized to sue me.
The individual that is not granted the
loan will be authorized to sue.
This bill, though, unlike the Hate
Crimes Act, some of us were pushing in
the Hate Crimes Act, let’s at least de-
fine what sexual orientation is. So be-
cause, as I said back then in debate, if
you don’t define sexual orientation,
some judge sometime in the Supreme
Court at some point will say, Well, you
didn’t define it, but you used the term
sexual orientation. So the meaning of
that is very clear: anything you are
oriented toward sexually. So that
would legalize some sexual orienta-
tions that are currently crimes, wheth-
er it is necrophilia, pedophilia.
Some have tried to say that I equat-
ed homosexuality and bestiality. They
were lying. I never did that. I said, let’s
define out those things that we can
agree should not be included, and we
were refused any type of limiting defi-
nition.
So one thing in this, there is a limi-
tation that says, sexual orientation.
The term sexual orientation means, ho-
mosexuality, heterosexuality, or bisex-
uality.
But then when it comes to gender
identity, that definition is going to
cause a great deal of problems. And it
makes clear, it even spells out that you
cannot deny access to a restroom, lock-
er room, dressing room, based on gen-
der identity. It says, that is in accord-
ance with the individual’s gender iden-
tity.
My friend, very smart friend, Mr.
Askin, said that he has been amazed
over the years how courts could move
forward and progress in determining
people’s civil rights. He felt like we are
not going to ever have a problem with
men claiming to be women, so they can
get huge scholarships, national noto-
riety, millions of dollars, or television
appearances. No man would ever do
that. And if they tried, the courts have
been really good about being able to
discern who is faking, who is a man
that says they are a woman and they
really don’t mean it, and who is legiti-
mately a man thinking that they are a
woman.
b 1330
The trouble with that is this Equal-
ity Act makes clear no individual has
the right to tell someone who says, ‘‘I
think I am a woman,’’ if you don’t
think they are a woman and you try to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.050 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3960 May 17, 2019
ask questions to determine if they are
really thinking they are a woman be-
fore you treat the person like one, you
have just violated the Equality Act.
You can’t call into question some-
body’s own self-determinative identity
of what they are, genderwise. This bill
makes that very clear. They and the
Attorney General of the United States
can come after you.
That is why some people who have
probably never voted for a Republican
in their lives have been heard saying:
Wait a minute. Title IX back in 1970
says you have to have an equal number
of women’s scholarships and men’s
scholarships.
We had a witness who is a professor
and said she was one of the first couple
of people to get a women’s athletic
scholarship under title IX at Villanova,
where she went to school. She pointed
out: Look, here are the three fastest
times of the women in the 2016 Olym-
pics in the 400 meter. Those are those
three dots. And then the thousands of
blue dots, thousands of which are fast-
er than those women, those are men,
and many of those are second-tier ath-
letes. They are not great male athletes,
and they still beat the best women’s
time.
Just in the last couple of weeks, we
had a guy who believes he is a woman,
and he broke a number of weightlifting
records for women.
I know there are a lot of Democratic
Party voters who may have been here
in the gallery clapping, violating the
rules and clapping on the passage of
the Equality Act, but I have a feeling
they have a daughter who cannot get
an athletic scholarship even though
she is the best female athlete in her
high school, one of the best female ath-
letes in the State, and they are shut
out from a female athletic scholarship
because guys are now applying who
think they are women, and you can’t
question them.
If they tell you they have self-identi-
fied as a woman under this Equality
Act, if that becomes the law, and you
try to challenge them on whether they
really do think they are a woman or
not, then you are wide open to the At-
torney General coming into your
school and costing mega-dollars.
But I have talked to people who
worked in women’s shelters, and they
have said: We have been totally dedi-
cated for decades to helping women
who are battered by sexual assault,
maybe a husband assault. But we are a
Christian group, and if we are man-
dated to allow a man to come in be-
cause he thinks he is a woman, we are
mandated to bring them in where these
women are so vulnerable and so fragile,
we will have to close our doors.
I have had small college leaders tell
me: If this bill becomes law, we will
have to change so much in the way of
accommodation to accommodate peo-
ple under the new law that we will
have to shut our doors. We are just
barely making it by a shoestring right
now.
Now, the massive colleges and uni-
versities, you know, they are getting
so much money these days, they will be
okay. But the small colleges, they are
going to have trouble coming up with
the money.
The women’s shelters are going to
have trouble coming up with the
money, and they are not going to want
to. They care so deeply about the
women who have been battered. I have
seen it. I have talked to them. But I
have experienced the love they have for
these women. They are just at the end
of their rope. And they sometimes call
the women’s homeless shelter. They
have nowhere else to go.
Now, after they have been brutalized
by a husband or some other man, some-
body that is stalking them, they are
going to be told they can’t keep a man
out if he thinks he is a woman. They
will close their doors.
So I know this Equality Act was done
out of the spirit of caring and not
wanting to hurt anybody’s feelings, but
as we have heard over and over
throughout the history of this place,
rights do have to be balanced.
So on the one hand, you have people
who are very confused and unhappy
about their gender, even though there
is also plenty of evidence to indicate
that a child who identifies with the
gender that that child is not bio-
logically, if that child is left alone, not
pushed in one direction or another,
over 80 percent of the time that child
will ultimately resolve the situation
and become comfortable, mentally,
with their biological gender.
But someone like Walt Heyer—I love
the guy; he has been a woman, phys-
ically, and he is back being a man—
tried to commit suicide, and now he
spends his time lovingly counseling,
encouraging, trying to talk people
down from killing themselves. He is
just a sweetheart of a guy. I saw him
again, recently.
But if this Equality Act becomes law,
he won’t be able to do that anymore.
You can’t try to talk somebody
through their difficulty, their suicide
ideations if you are going to encourage
them to be mentally what they are bio-
logically, because this allows even the
Attorney General to come after people
like that.
People in this body would think such
a person is mean-spirited. I don’t find a
mean-spirited bone in Walt Heyer’s
body. He is just a sweetheart of a per-
son.
But when you hear people say this
bill will bring an end to persecution, it
will bring an end to discrimination,
that is true with regard to someone
who is different, mentally, from what
they are biologically at that moment.
As I said, the studies indicate that
over 80 percent of the time, someone
who is left alone and not trying to be
coached one way or another, they end
up having their mental attitude on
gender resolving and being biologically
and mentally the same gender.
But you try to counsel somebody on
that, you are going to be sued individ-
ually. The Attorney General can come
after you. And if your position is based
on the kind of love that Jesus Christ
has filled you with, care and compas-
sion, and you try to counsel someone
out of that love and compassion, well,
you have just violated the Equality
Act, and Big Brother government is
coming after you.
It is really tragic. We used to have
more religious freedom. Yes, there
were a lot of battles between denomi-
nations in America, and that is why, in
the Continental Congress, everybody
didn’t trust one person in the Conti-
nental Congress to do a prayer that
was fair to everybody, because there
were so many different denominations.
It sounded like the Quakers were
usually the toughest to please by a
prayer by somebody who was not a
Quaker. But they were always able to
come together and agree: Okay. This
minister may not be from my Christian
denomination, but that minister will
do a fair prayer for all of the Christian
denominations here.
But that is why, when Benjamin
Franklin made his motion 5 weeks into
the Constitutional Convention, that
they begin each day with prayer the
way they had during the Continental
Congress, it ended up being voted
down, because, basically, they were
saying: We don’t have a treasury. We
are not getting paid, and so we can’t
afford to hire a chaplain we can all
agree on. So, if we can just get a Con-
stitution together, then we can have a
treasury, then we can hire a Christian
minister to come in here and pray for
all of the denominations represented
here.
That is when Randolph from Virginia
said: Okay. All right. You are right. We
don’t have money to hire a chaplain
right now, so I move that we recess.
Here we are, the end of June. A few
days from now, it will be July Fourth.
We are going to celebrate our Nation’s
independence. I move that we recess
here in this Constitutional Convention
and we reconvene together at a church
that has a minister that we can all
trust to be fair to our Christian de-
nominations. Then we will worship to-
gether, and after we worship together,
then we will come back and try this
constitution, try putting one together.
Now, that one passed, and they all
gathered at the Reformed Calvinist
Church in Philadelphia.
My friend Dave Brat loves that be-
cause he is Calvinist.
And the Reverend William Rogers
was the minister presiding. Appar-
ently, he did an awesome job as a
Christian minister of bringing all of
these delegates attending the Constitu-
tional Convention together.
It was written by others that when
they reconvened, there was a new spir-
it. Yes, they had disagreements, but
there was a new spirit there.
I know people are taught nowadays
that Benjamin Franklin was a deist,
someone who doesn’t believe in God,
just thinks some force, some thing,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.052 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3961
May 17, 2019
something, created the universe, and if
that thing or force, person, is still
around, it never interferes with nature
or man. Everybody is on their own.
But it was Ben Franklin that said: ‘‘I
have lived, Sir, a long time, and the
longer I live, the more convincing
proofs I see of this truth—that God
governs in the affairs of men. And if a
sparrow cannot fall to the ground with-
out His notice, is it possible that an
empire can rise without His aid?
We have been assured, Sir, in the Sa-
cred Writings, that ‘except the Lord
build the House they labor in vain that
build it.’ I firmly believe this; and I
also believe that without his concur-
ring aid we shall succeed in this polit-
ical building no better than the build-
ers of Babel.’’
We will be confined by our local par-
tial interests; and we, ourselves, shall
become a byword down through the
ages.
That is because he knew this was the
best chance in the history of all of the
world to have people self-governing.
The Romans had a form and the Greeks
had a form, but not like this.
We have been blessed. We have con-
tinued to work together over the cen-
turies to get the Constitution to where
all people will be treated as they are
created: equal; not equal in talent or
intellect, but equal in the sight of God,
our Creator.
Yet, the Equality Act sends a mes-
sage that if you are going to base your
life on the teachings of Moses or Jesus
or both, then we will not only per-
secute you, we will prosecute you. And
the Attorney General of the United
States is authorized under the Equality
Act, basically, to destroy your life if
you happen to believe and practice
what Moses and Jesus said.
We have done so much destruction of
families in this country over the last 50
to 60 years, and it is tough. I have seen
it. People I love have been a single
mom or single dad raising kids. It is
tough.
We have taken action, passed laws
that really have been destructive of the
home as a nuclear home. We have seen
the falling away from Judeo-Christian
beliefs.
As John Adams said, this Constitu-
tion is only meant for a religious and a
moral people. It is wholly inadequate
for the government of any others.
So this is one more nail in America’s
coffin. As Jefferson said, I fear for
America because I know God is just.
But this says Moses and Jesus were
just wrong. Anybody who tries to fol-
low those teachings publicly, we are
going to destroy you until we make ev-
erybody equal except Orthodox Jews
and Christians following the Bible, and
also Muslims who are following the
Koran. They will not be able to follow
the teachings of the Koran if this be-
comes law.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
REMOVAL OF DELEGATE AND AP-
POINTMENT OF MEMBER TO
HOUSE DEMOCRACY PARTNER-
SHIP
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, and pursuant to section
104(a) of House Resolution 6, 116th Con-
gress, and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, the Chair removes the
gentlewoman from the Virgin Islands
(Ms. PLASKETT) from the House Democ-
racy Partnership, and appoints the
gentlewoman from California (Mrs.
DAVIS) to fill the vacancy.
There was no objection.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 1 o’clock and 46 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Monday, May 20,
2019, at noon for morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1056. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel, Export-Import Bank, transmitting
two (2) notifications of a nomination and an
action on nomination, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat.
2681-614); to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
1057. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel, Millennium Challenge Corporation,
transmitting five (5) notifications of a va-
cancy, a designation of acting officer, a nom-
ination, and an action on nomination, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-277,
151(b); (112 Stat. 2681-614); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
1058. A letter from the Chief, Regulations
and Standards Branch, BSEE, Bureau of
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting the
Department’s Major final rule — Oil and Gas
and Sulfur Operations in the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf--Blowout Preventer Systems
and Well Control Revisions [Docket ID:
BSEE-2018-0002; 190E1700D2
ET1SF0000.EAQ000 EEEE500000] (RIN: 1014-
AA39) received May 16, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1059. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Great Lakes Pilotage Rates —
2019 Annual Review and Revisions to Meth-
odology [USCG-2018-0665] (RIN: 1625-AC49) re-
ceived May 16, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 2333. A bill to direct the Comp-
troller General of the United States to con-
duct an assessment of the responsibilities,
workload, and vacancy rates of Department
of Veterans Affairs suicide prevention coor-
dinators, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–
70). Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 2359. A bill to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress a
report on the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs advancing of whole health trans-
formation; with an amendment (Rept. 116–
71). Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 2372. A bill to direct the Comp-
troller General of the United States to con-
duct an assessment of all memoranda of un-
derstanding and memoranda of agreement
between Under Secretary of Health and non-
Department of Veterans Affairs entities re-
lating to suicide prevention and mental
health services; with an amendment (Rept.
116–72). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. KIM (for himself and Mr.
RATCLIFFE):
H.R. 2819. A bill to extend the authority for
the establishment of a commemorative work
in honor of Gold Star Families, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD:
H.R. 2820. A bill to authorize the cancella-
tion of removal and adjustment of status of
certain individuals who are long-term United
States residents and entered the United
States as children, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself and
Ms. CLARKE of New York):
H.R. 2821. A bill to authorize the cancella-
tion of removal and adjustment of status of
certain nationals of certain countries des-
ignated for temporary protected status or
deferred enforced departure, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Ms. SHERRILL (for herself and Mr.
UPTON):
H.R. 2822. A bill to amend title V of the So-
cial Security Act to provide for an extension
of funding for family-to-family health infor-
mation centers, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. CASE, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. CORREA, Ms. ESHOO,
Ms. GABBARD, Mr. GREEN of Texas,
Mr. KHANNA, Ms. LEE of California,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. PANETTA, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SHER-
MAN, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. GOMEZ):
H.R. 2823. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to deem certain service in the
organized military forces of the Government
of the Commonwealth of the Philippines and
the Philippine Scouts to have been active
service for purposes of benefits under pro-
grams administered by the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs; to the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, and Mr. LAWSON of Florida):
H.R. 2824. A bill to amend the Fair Credit
Reporting Act to require the inclusion of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K17MY7.053 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3962 May 17, 2019
credit scores with free annual credit reports
provided to consumers, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Ms. SE-
WELL of Alabama, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, and Mr. TUR-
NER):
H.R. 2825. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the rehabilita-
tion credit for certain small projects, to
eliminate the requirement that the tax-
payer’s basis in a building be reduced by the
amount of the rehabilitation credit deter-
mined with respect to such building, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself and Mrs. NAPOLITANO):
H.R. 2826. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for behavioral
and mental health outreach and education
strategies to reduce stigma associated with
mental health among the Asian American,
Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander popu-
lation; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 2827. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to deem any
perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance
used as a food contact substance to be unsafe
and therefore treated as adulterated under
such Act, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. KING of New York (for himself,
Mr. PASCRELL, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
CONNOLLY, and Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 2828. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to provide that for purposes of
computing the annuity of certain law en-
forcement officers, any hours worked in ex-
cess of the limitation applicable to law en-
forcement premium pay shall be included in
such computation, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. LEVIN of Michigan (for himself
and Mr. MASSIE):
H.R. 2829. A bill to clarify that Congress
has not provided authorization for the use of
military force against Iran; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. MEADOWS (for himself, Mr.
CUELLAR, and Mr. ROUZER):
H.R. 2830. A bill to direct the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion to create a task force to process applica-
tions submitted for determinations, assess-
ments, and waivers for unmanned aircraft
systems; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. MITCHELL (for himself, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, and Mr. LANGEVIN):
H.R. 2831. A bill to require the Secretary of
Labor to award grants for promoting indus-
try or sector partnerships to encourage in-
dustry growth and competitiveness and to
improve worker training, retention, and ad-
vancement as part of an infrastructure in-
vestment; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Ms. OMAR (for herself, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. DEFAZIO, and Mr.
KHANNA):
H.R. 2832. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow a business credit
for gain from the sale of real property for use
as a manufactured home community, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Ms. PORTER (for herself, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. SARBANES, Mr.
TAKANO, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
PRESSLEY, and Mr. LEVIN of Michi-
gan):
H.R. 2833. A bill to require the student loan
ombudsman of the Department of Education
to provide student loan data to the Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on Financial Services, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. ROUZER:
H.R. 2834. A bill to revise the boundaries of
a unit of the John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier
Resources System in Topsail, North Caro-
lina, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for him-
self, Mr. COLLINS of Georgia, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, Mr. KATKO, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. DAVID P. ROE
of Tennessee, and Ms. NORTON):
H.R. 2835. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to reform certain forfeiture pro-
cedures, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committees on Financial Services, and
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. TORRES of California (for her-
self and Mrs. WAGNER):
H.R. 2836. A bill to authorize appropria-
tions for the Department of State for fiscal
years 2020 through 2022 to provide assistance
to El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras
through bilateral compacts to increase pro-
tection of women and children in their
homes and communities and reduce female
homicides, domestic violence, and sexual as-
sault; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. TITUS, Ms. SPEIER,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. PALLONE,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mr. SOTO, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr.
NADLER, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Ms. DELBENE, Mr. POCAN, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. KILMER, Ms. BROWNLEY
of California, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. CORREA,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. CRIST, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. SCANLON, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. MENG, Mr. RASKIN,
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. HIMES, Mrs. FLETCHER,
Mrs. CRAIG, Ms. PORTER, Mr. BROWN
of Maryland, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. CISNEROS, Mrs.
HAYES, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS
of Illinois, Mr. PAYNE, and Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ):
H. Res. 388. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of the International Day
Against Homophobia, Transphobia, and
Biphobia; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, and in addition to the Committees on
Energy and Commerce, and Education and
Labor, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. KIM:
H.R. 2819.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the Constitution
By Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD:
H.R. 2820.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 2821.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power to . . . pro-
vide for the . . . general Welfare of the
United States; . . .
By Ms. SHERRILL:
H.R. 2822.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 1 of section 8 of the Constitution.
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 2823.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 2824.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 2825.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII, Clause I
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 2826.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
United States Constitution
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 2827.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. KING of New York:
H.R. 2828.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress shall have Power . . . To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. LEVIN of Michigan:
H.R. 2829.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L17MY7.100 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3963
May 17, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the Constitution.
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 2830.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution: To regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes;
By Mr. MITCHELL:
H.R. 2831.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers.
By Ms. OMAR:
H.R. 2832.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 2833.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. ROUZER:
H.R. 2834.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
H.R. 2835.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 (The Congress
shall have Power ‘‘To regulate Commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
States and within the Indian Tribes’’) and
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 (The Congress
shall have Power ‘‘to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in
the Government of the United States, or in
any Department or Officer thereof’’). Addi-
tional authority derives from Article III,
Section 1, (‘‘The judicial Power of the United
States, shall be vested in one Supreme
Court, and in each inferior courts as the Con-
gress may from time to time ordain and es-
tablish. The Judges, both of the Supreme and
inferior Courts, shall hold their Officers dur-
ing good Behavior, and shall at stated times,
receive for their Services, a Compensation,
which shall not be diminished during their
Continuance in Office.) Additional authority
also derives from Article III, Section 2,
Clause 3 of the Constitution.
By Mrs. TORRES of California:
H.R. 2836.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
According to Article 1: Section 8: Clause
18: of the United States Constitution, seen
below, this bill falls within the Constitu-
tional Authority of the United States Con-
gress.
Article 1: Section 8: Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 4: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 36: Mr. CARTWRIGHT and Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 74: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 75: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 85: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 95: Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 141: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 147: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 153: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 158: Ms. NORTON and Ms. CLARKE of
New York.
H.R. 256: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 296: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 307: Mr. GRIFFITH, Mrs. MILLER, and
Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 336: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 383: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 435: Mr. SMITH of Washington and Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 438: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 490: Mr. DIAZ-BALART.
H.R. 500: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 510: Mr. CHABOT and Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 516: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 523: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 549: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 550: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 554: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 555: Mr. PETERS, Ms. GARCIA of Texas,
Mr. TRONE, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. HARDER
of California, Mr. SIRES, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Mr. MCHENRY, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. VELA, Mr.
NORCROSS, and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 569: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 586: Mr. HICE of Georgia and Mr.
OLSON.
H.R. 641: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 647: Mr. LEVIN of California and Mr.
KINZINGER.
H.R. 649: Mr. CURTIS.
H.R. 674: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 693: Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
COSTA, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. TAKANO,
Mrs. FLETCHER, Ms. PLASKETT, Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, and Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 732: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 748: Mrs. FLETCHER and Mr. MARCH-
ANT.
H.R. 771: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 777: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 838: Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Ohio, Mr. DEUTCH, and Mr. MARCHANT.
H.R. 849: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 864: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 885: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 891: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 906: Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 939: Mr. CICILLINE and Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 943: Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mr. ALLRED, Mr. EMMER, Mr. CROW,
Mr. WRIGHT, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
and Mrs. MURPHY.
H.R. 946: Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, and Ms. CASTOR of
Florida.
H.R. 955: Ms. MENG and Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 961: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 1002: Mr. COLLINS of New York.
H.R. 1042: Mr. COLLINS of New York.
H.R. 1044: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma,
Mr. ALLRED, and Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 1058: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 1080: Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr. RUSH,
Ms. GARCIA of Texas, and Mr. CASTRO of
Texas.
H.R. 1130: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 1139: Mrs. TORRES of California.
H.R. 1146: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. BRIN-
DISI, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. CLEAVER,
Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. FOSTER,
and Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 1149: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 1154: Mrs. HAYES, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms.
PINGREE, and Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 1209: Ms. WILD, Mr. MAST, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. HIMES,
Mr. MALINOWSKI, Ms. TITUS, Mr. SUOZZI, and
Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 1225: Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. CORREA, and
Mr. BACON.
H.R. 1228: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1236: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 1274: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia and
Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 1309: Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 1321: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1327: Mr. WENSTRUP and Mr.
BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 1345: Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 1372: Mr. JORDAN, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, and Mr. CLOUD.
H.R. 1374: Mr. ROUZER, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
COLLINS of New York, Ms. LOFGREN, and Mr.
MASSIE.
H.R. 1396: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr.
HORSFORD, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana, Mr. DELGADO, Mrs. HAYES,
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. WRIGHT,
and Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 1398: Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. BACON, Mr.
BAIRD, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, and Mr.
BRINDISI.
H.R. 1423: Mr. TRONE, Mr. MORELLE, and
Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 1443: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 1446: Mr. MAST and Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 1534: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1549: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1554: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
KING of Iowa, and Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 1570: Mr. CLEAVER, Ms. UNDERWOOD,
Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms.
OMAR, and Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 1575: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1579: Mr. AMODEI and Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 1591: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 1595: Ms. HOULAHAN and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1636: Mr. ALLRED and Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 1643: Ms. OMAR, Mr. CRIST, and Ms.
PRESSLEY.
H.R. 1646: Mr. O’HALLERAN, Ms. STEVENS,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
VARGAS, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr.
KILMER, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. VELA, and Mr.
LAMB.
H.R. 1692: Mrs. FLETCHER and Mr. PERL-
MUTTER.
H.R. 1716: Mr. WALTZ, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 1717: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1730: Mr. YOUNG and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1767: Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr. LONG,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. STEVENS, and Mr.
UPTON.
H.R. 1793: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 1794: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1814: Mr. RASKIN and Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 1830: Mr. STAUBER, Mr. BALDERSON,
Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. CONAWAY,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr.
DESAULNIER, and Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 1837: Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mrs. LEE
of Nevada, Ms. STEVENS, Mr. PERLMUTTER,
Mr. LIPINSKI, and Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 1869: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico, Mr. COMER, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. HILL of
Arkansas, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. COSTA, Mr. LUCAS, Ms.
PINGREE, and Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 1878: Mr. KIM, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Ms. BASS, Ms. LOFGREN, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. TRONE, and Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 1882: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 1885: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 1896: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 1903: Mr. RUTHERFORD and Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 1911: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 1943: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1949: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 1950: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 1964: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17MY7.024 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3964 May 17, 2019
H.R. 1965: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 1980: Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. FUDGE, Mr.
TONKO, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. LEWIS,
Mr. HECK, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. LOEBSACK, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Ms. MENG, Mr. LAMB, and Ms. CASTOR of
Florida.
H.R. 2015: Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. STEWART,
Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr.
WRIGHT, Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee, and
Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2029: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 2040: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 2070: Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 2073: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 2074: Mr. RASKIN, Mr. HECK, and Ms.
PINGREE.
H.R. 2088: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Mr. LEVIN of California, Mr.
MCNERNEY, and Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 2098: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2117: Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 2134: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2137: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 2147: Mr. KIND, Mr. DUNN, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. CASE, Mr.
GALLAGHER, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
CARTER of Georgia, and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 2151: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 2156: Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 2178: Mr. COLLINS of New York and Ms.
PINGREE.
H.R. 2182: Ms. LEE of California, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Ms. LOFGREN, and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 2186: Mr. HASTINGS and Mr. CROW.
H.R. 2195: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 2208: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2300: Mrs. LURIA and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2326: Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Ms. PORTER,
and Mr. VELA.
H.R. 2334: Mrs. FLETCHER and Ms. JOHNSON
of Texas.
H.R. 2340: Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 2343: Mr. RIGGLEMAN and Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 2354: Mr. KIND, Mr. DEFAZIO, and Mrs.
LAWRENCE.
H.R. 2367: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 2382: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. CRIST, Ms. MENG, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. SCHRADER, and Mr.
HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2402: Mr. LAWSON of Florida and Mr.
O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 2435: Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. KILDEE, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. SIRES, and Ms. TORRES SMALL
of New Mexico.
H.R. 2474: Mr. AGUILAR and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2476: Mr. MALINOWSKI and Mr.
SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 2480: Mr. LIPINSKI and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2483: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2489: Mr. SWALWELL of California and
Ms. BASS.
H.R. 2491: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. CARTWRIGHT,
and Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2507: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mrs. RODGERS
of Washington, Ms. NORTON, and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2528: Mr. BEYER, Mr. COHEN, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Ms. HILL of California, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2554: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington and
Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 2555: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 2568: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2577: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2579: Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. VAN DREW, and
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 2585: Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. UNDERWOOD,
and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2591: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2618: Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 2634: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2643: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2651: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. DELBENE,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. QUIGLEY, and Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 2692: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2700: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER and Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 2726: Ms. MOORE and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2742: Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. CONAWAY, and
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee.
H.R. 2747: Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. KHANNA, Mrs.
DINGELL, Ms. PINGREE, and Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 2748: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mrs. DINGELL, and
Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 2776: Mr. LOEBSACK and Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 2778: Mr. PAYNE, Mrs. MCBATH, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
SIRES, Ms. SCANLON, and Mr. BISHOP of Geor-
gia.
H.R. 2809: Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. CLARK of Mas-
sachusetts, Mr. GARAMENDI, and Mr.
HORSFORD.
H.J. Res. 2: Mrs. DINGELL.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mr. WITTMAN.
H. Con. Res. 36: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mrs.
DINGELL, and Ms. LOFGREN.
H. Res. 134: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H. Res. 165: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr.
RASKIN.
H. Res. 231: Mr. KILMER.
H. Res. 246: Mr. BUCSHON and Mr. GUEST.
H. Res. 296: Mr. CALVERT.
H. Res. 349: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. PALLONE,
Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. CASE, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. WATKINS, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, and Mr. TAKANO.
H. Res. 358: Mr. RUSH, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and Mr. RASKIN.
H. Res. 363: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H. Res. 374: Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr. ROONEY of
Florida, Mr. KING of New York, and Mr. CAL-
VERT.
H. Res. 383: Mr. ROGERS of Alabama, Mr.
MCCAUL, Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana, Mr.
KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr.
RUIZ, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio,
Mr. CHABOT, Mr. PALAZZO, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mr. RYAN, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, Mrs. TORRES of
California, and Ms. LOFGREN.
f
DISCHARGE PETITIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XV, the fol-
lowing discharge petition was filed:
Petition 3, May 15, 2019, by Mr. MAST on
House Resolution 348, was signed by the fol-
lowing Members: Mr. Mast, Mr. Hagedorn,
Mr. Womack, Mr. Posey, Mr. Rice of South
Carolina, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Upton,
Mr. Armstrong, Mr. Cole, Mr. Biggs, Mr.
McKinley, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Thompson of
Pennsylvania, Mr. Scalise, Mr. McCaul, Mr.
Zeldin, Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, Ms.
Stefanik, Mr. Bost, Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Fer-
guson, Mr. Kinzinger, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Gon-
zalez of Ohio, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Katko, Mr.
Banks, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Gallagher,
Mr. Steil, Mr. Riggleman, Mrs. Walorski, Ms.
Granger, Mr. Gianforte, Mr. Davidson of
Ohio, Mr. Rogers of Kentucky, Mr. Burchett,
Mr. Green of Tennessee, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr.
Comer, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Smucker, Mr. Flo-
res, Mr. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Balderson, Mr.
Marshall, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Ruther-
ford, Mr. Wenstrup, Mr. Williams, Mr. Brady,
Mr. Budd, Mr. Norman, Mrs. Hartzler, Mrs.
Miller, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Baird, Mr. Hill of Ar-
kansas, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. Wright, Mr.
Carter of Texas, Mr. Fulcher, Mr. Newhouse,
Mr. Cook, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Gooden, Mr.
Collins of New York, Mr. Arrington, Mr.
Byrne, Mr. Latta, Mr. Smith of Nebraska,
Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Guest, Mr. Joyce
of Pennsylvania, Mr. Meuser, Mr. Duncan,
Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Walker, Mr. Babin, Mr.
Mitchell, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. Yoho,
Mr. Stauber, Mr. Emmer, Mr. Dunn, Mr. Bili-
rakis, Ms. Cheney, Mr. Long, Mr. Graves of
Louisiana, Mr. John W. Rose of Tennessee,
Mr. Bishop of Utah, Mr. Olson, Mr. Rogers of
Alabama, Mr. Rooney of Florida, Mr. John-
son of South Dakota, Mr. Amodei, Mr.
Crawford, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Thorn-
berry, Mr. Young, Mr. Kelly of Mississippi,
Mr. Conaway, Mr. Kevin Hern of Oklahoma,
Mr. Bucshon, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Hudson,
Mr. Holding, Mr. Watkins, Mr. Simpson, Mr.
Mooney of West Virginia, Mr. Fleischmann,
Mr. David P. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. King of
New York, Mr. Bacon, Mr. Collins of Georgia,
Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania,
Mr. Buck, Mr. Curtis, Mr. Stivers, Mrs.
Lesko, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Joyce of Ohio,
Mr. Spano, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Lamborn, Ms. Her-
rera Beutler, Mrs. Rodgers of Washington,
Mr. Bergman, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. Diaz-Balart,
Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Ratcliffe,
Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Barr, Mr.
Reschenthaler, Mr. Allen, Ms. Foxx of North
Carolina, Mr. Hurd of Texas, Mr. Harris, Mr.
Palazzo, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr.
Burgess, Mr. LaHood, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Wal-
den, Mr. Perry, Mr. Cline, Mr. Steube, Mr.
Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Griffith, Mr.
Grothman, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr.
Tipton, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Chabot, Mr.
Mullin, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr.
Timmons, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr.
Marchant, Mr. Turner, Mr. Graves of Geor-
gia, Mr. Aderholt, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana,
Mr. Meadows, Mr. Pence, Mr. Reed, Mr.
Woodall, Mr. Estes, Mr. Roy, Mr. Shimkus,
Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Graves of Mis-
souri, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Higgins of
Louisiana, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Walberg, Mr.
Waltz, Mr. Palmer, Mr. McHenry.
f
DISCHARGE PETITIONS—
ADDITIONS AND WITHDRAWALS
The following Members added their
names to the following discharge peti-
tions:
Petition 1 by Mr. SCALISE on House Reso-
lution 102: Mr. Rooney of Florida.
Petition 2 by Mr. HICE of Georgia on
House Resolution 132: Mr. Kustoff of Ten-
nessee, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Ratcliffe, Mr. Walker,
Mr. Smucker, Mr. Harris, Mr. Palazzo, Mr.
DesJarlais, Mr. Collins of Georgia, Mr. Goh-
mert.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A17MY7.007 H17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E619
May 17, 2019
HONORING OFFICER ROBERT CAR-
ROLL ON BEING NAMED OAK
LAWN’S TOP COP OF 2019
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Officer Robert Carroll of the Oak
Lawn Police Department for being named the
Village’s Top Cop of 2019. The Oak Lawn
Lion’s Club bestows this award on a distin-
guished member of the force after being nomi-
nated by his or her peers and selected by a
committee of police department leaders.
Officer Carroll has served the Oak Lawn
community as an exemplary first responder.
While performing his duties, Officer Carroll has
put his life on the line to make numerous fel-
ony arrests and to keep the Village of Oak
Lawn safe. Officer Carroll has received sev-
eral letters from citizens recognizing him for
his compassion and professionalism in the line
of duty. Officer Carroll is an exceptional mem-
ber of the Oak Lawn Police Department and
his record stands as a shining example for
others seeking to serve Oak Lawn and our
larger Chicagoland community.
I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring
Oak Lawn Police Officer Robert Carroll. I con-
gratulate him on his accomplishments and
thank him for his service.
f
TRIBUTE TO SYDNEY STROTHER
SMITH III
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, I pay trib-
ute to Sydney Strother Smith III of Abingdon,
Virginia, a faithful servant of his God and
country.
Strother was born on August 1, 1941, to
Strother and Betsy Smith. His father was one
of the Army’s last commissioned cavalry offi-
cers, and during young Strother’s baptism at
Fort Knox on December 7, 1941, news from
Pearl Harbor interrupted the service. As his fa-
ther fought in World War II as a tank com-
mander, Strother lived in Richmond with his
mother and grandfather. They remained there
after his father returned from the war.
Hoping to follow in his father’s footsteps by
joining the military, Strother enrolled at the Vir-
ginia Military Institute in Lexington. A fall from
cliffs broke his back, however, and ended
hopes of a military career. Among his room-
mates at VMI, he was the only one not to die
in Vietnam, convincing him that God had a dif-
ferent purpose for his life.
Strother is known as a dedicated and effec-
tive organizer of the Republican Party in Vir-
ginia. He was the founding president of the
Young Republicans Club at the University of
Richmond and served as vice president of the
statewide Young Republicans Federation,
where he helped expand the number of clubs
statewide and met his future wife Barbara. He
managed his father’s successful campaign for
the Virginia House of Delegates as a Repub-
lican at a time when Virginia was still largely
controlled by the Democratic Party and went
on to manage other campaigns for the House
of Delegates, United States Senate, and
House of Representatives. After moving to
Washington County to practice law, he be-
came an active member of the county party
and instilled it with new blood. He served as
chairman of the county party from 1974 to
1980 and, along with Professor Ray Hancock,
organized the College Republicans at Emory
and Henry College, my alma mater.
Strother also achieved distinction in his legal
career. He became one of the youngest attor-
neys to argue in front of the United States Su-
preme Court and would return several times,
as well as appear before the Virginia Supreme
Court. He was drawn toward cases in which
he championed the underdog. One example
unfolded over 25 years as he represented an
elderly Kentucky mountain man, John John-
son, and eventually Mr. Johnson’s heirs
against the industrial giant Bethlehem Min-
erals. Mr. Johnson claimed rights over the
coal on his property, and Strother argued his
case up to the Kentucky Supreme Court, then
to the U.S. Supreme Court, and back to Ken-
tucky. When the case was finally resolved, Mr.
Johnson’s heirs and co-litigants were awarded
$37 million in damages, and willful trespassing
became part of mineral rights law. Strother rel-
ished such cases and often engaged in them
on a pro bono basis, about which his wife
sometimes noted that his family had bills to
pay, too.
Strother was an active member of the Angli-
can Church. He was a chancellor, canon law-
yer, and a priest ordained in 1987, and he
helped to found and rector six parishes. He
also belonged to numerous civic organiza-
tions. He was an Eagle Scout as a boy and
a scout leader as an adult, a member of the
Sons of the Revolution, and a reenactor with
the Mountain Men of Revolutionary War fame.
An amateur pilot, a published poet, a joke col-
lector and storyteller, he is a man of seem-
ingly endless talents but one: punctuality. His
nickname, the ‘‘Late Great Strother Smith,’’ re-
flects his habit of being late to just about ev-
erything, including his wedding. The one ex-
ception: voting, which he would always be in
line for by 6 am.
Strother’s family includes his wife of 53
years, Barbara Ann Smith; daughters Ambler
Dumler and her husband John, Sydney Smith
and her husband Tim Gilhool, and Beth and
her husband Andy Stockner; brother, Richard
Smith and his wife Sarah of Alexandria, VA;
sister Rev. Caroline Parkinson of Nashville,
TN; and grandchildren Josef, Marshall, and
Aidan Dumler, Jimmy and Molly Gilhool, and
Virginia, Josie, and Cora Stockner.
TRIBUTE TO BLAKE EDWARD
BUTLER
HON. KEN CALVERT
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Speaker, I rise to
pay tribute to a public servant and American
patriot, Blake Butler, who passed away sud-
denly on May 3, 2019 at his home in Yerevan,
Armenia. Today I ask that the U.S. House of
Representatives join me to honor and remem-
ber the life of Blake Edward Butler.
Blake Butler joined the U.S. Department of
State in 2009 as a U.S. Foreign Service Offi-
cer. In 2018, he began his tour as the Human
Resources and Financial Management Officer
at U.S. Embassy Yerevan. From 2015 to 2018
he served as the Assistant General Services
Officer at U.S. Embassy Buenos Aires where
he led the team that provided logistical sup-
port to 14 different U.S. government agencies
and close to 400 employees. Blake’s other as-
signments included General Services Officer
at U.S. Embassy Baghdad; Environmental,
Science, Technology and Health Officer at
U.S. Embassy Paris; and Vice Consul at U.S.
Embassy Port-au-Prince. Prior to joining the
Foreign Service, he worked as a civil service
employee for the Department of State as a
budget analyst and in the office responsible
for the President’s foreign travel. He was the
recipient of multiple Department Superior
Honor and Meritorious Honor Awards. In addi-
tion to his service with the Department of
State, Blake valiantly served in the U.S.
Army’s Reserve from 2001 to 2011 and was
deployed overseas on multiple occasions.
Blake was the loving husband of Sara Hurst
Butler, who previously worked in my office,
and the proud father of Everett Ian Butler.
Blake received his BA from Baylor University
and his MBA and Master’s in Health Adminis-
tration from Texas Woman’s University.
As we look at the incredibly rich history of
our country we realize that this history is com-
prised of men, just like Blake, who chose a life
of public service. I am grateful for Blake’s
service to our country and my thoughts, pray-
ers and deepest condolences goes out Blake’s
wife, son, parents and brother. There are no
words that can relieve their pain and what
words I offer only begin to convey my deep re-
spect and highest appreciation. I hope they
know that the goodness Blake brought to this
world will always be remembered.
f
ROYAL ROTH
HON. STEVE SCALISE
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I rise to
congratulate my friend, Royal Roth, on his
well-deserved retirement after a long and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K17MY8.001 E17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E620 May 17, 2019
happy career. On June 30, 2019, Royal will
finish out seventeen rewarding years at the
United Parcel Service (UPS), where he cur-
rently works as a Vice President in the UPS
Global Public Affairs group.
Royal is a welcome and familiar face to
many of us. He found his way to Washington
via the campaign trail, while working for the
late First Lady Barbara Bush during the 1992
election. After the election, he landed at the
National Republican Senatorial Committee be-
fore moving onto then-Senate Majority Leader
Bob Dole’s staff.
After several productive years on Capitol
Hill, Royal moved on to The American Truck-
ing Associations before joining UPS in 2002.
Royal has worked tirelessly on behalf of Amer-
ican workers, taxpayers, and businesses over
the past decades. He retires at the height of
his career, with an impeccable reputation and
much hard-earned good will behind him.
While Royal will be missed in Washington,
he and Patrick will enjoy spending more time
shuttling between New Orleans and Fairhope.
As an avid University of Alabama football fan,
I know we’ll always be able to find him watch-
ing his beloved Crimson Tide play in Tusca-
loosa (and sometime soon, lose to LSU). It is
with many thanks for his friendship and years
of service that Jennifer and I congratulate
Royal and wish him well as we send him off
on this new chapter of his life.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BRAD R. WENSTRUP
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, due to
the death of my father, I was unable to attend
the following votes.
Had I been present, I would have voted:
YEA on Roll Call No. 185; YEA on Roll Call
No. 186; YEA on Roll Call No. 187; YEA on
Roll Call No. 188; NAY on Roll Call No. 189;
NAY on Roll Call No. 190; YEA on Roll Call
No. 191; YEA on Roll Call No. 192; NAY on
Roll Call No. 193; NAY on Roll Call No. 194;
YEA on Roll Call No. 195; NAY on Roll Call
No. 196; NAY on Roll Call No. 197; NAY on
Roll Call No. 198; NAY on Roll Call No. 199;
YEA on Roll Call No. 200; YEA on Roll Call
No. 201; and NAY on Roll Call No. 202.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF FLOWER
MOUND HIGH SCHOOL PRINCIPAL
SONYA LAIL
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to recognize the outstanding career of Ms.
Sonya Lail. This spring, she is retiring from
her position as principal of Flower Mound High
School, where she has served in multiple
leadership positions for the past 17 years.
Ms. Lail grew up in El Paso, Texas, where
she was inspired by one of her teachers to be-
come an educator. She went on to pursue her
Bachelors of Science degree in education
from the University of Texas at El Paso, and
achieved master’s degrees from Texas Tech
University and Sul Ross State University.
In 2002, Ms. Lail joined Flower Mound High
School as an assistant principal, a position in
which she served for five years, and served as
an associate principal for another four years.
She has led FMHS as its principal for the last
eight years. From day one, Ms. Lail has been
a dedicated leader and educator, working to
help each student meet his or her full poten-
tial.
After nearly two decades of service to Flow-
er Mound High School, Ms. Lail will be sorely
missed by the entire Jaguar community. I am
grateful for her total of thirty-three years in
education and public service, and I wish Ms.
Lail every continued success in her well-
earned retirement.
f
IN MEMORY OF JOSUE FLORES
HON. SYLVIA R. GARCIA
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Madam Speaker,
today we remember the life of Josue Flores.
At the young age of eleven years old, Josue
was murdered while he walked home from
school in Houston’s Northside. Three years
have passed since that day and every day
that passes our community still feels sadness
and mourns his loss. As family, friends and
neighbors gather tonight at Holy Name Catho-
lic Church to remember our little angel, we
also remember what we are all striving for. We
want safety. We want security. We want jus-
tice.
All of us have a role to play in making our
community safer. The concerned parents and
neighbors of Safe Walk Home go above and
beyond. Together, they form a powerful force
of protection for our school children. When I
served in the Texas Senate, we worked hard
to secure funding for organizations that help
provide safe passage for children going to and
from school in high crime or violent areas.
Now, here in Congress, I continue to believe
that we must do more to make the trip to and
from school safe for every child in Houston, in
Texas, and across the United States. Josue
continues to touch our lives and watch over
our work. Let us rededicate ourselves to keep-
ing our children safe from harm.
f
HONORING OFFICERS DURING
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
HON. STEVE CHABOT
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. CHABOT. Madam Speaker, this week is
National Police Week, a week the American
people join hundreds of thousands of law en-
forcement officers across the country to honor
all those who have made the ultimate sacrifice
in order to keep our communities safe.
Words alone can never fully express our
gratitude for the sacrifices that police officers
and their families make to protect the rest of
us. And too often, it takes a tragedy to realize
just what is at stake, and what we owe to
those who are willing to take that risk.
It’s why I do all that I can as a Member of
Congress to help give police officers the re-
sources they need to do their job effectively
and safely. For example, this week, we
passed important legislation to reauthorize the
Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program.
This important program helps protect the men
and women who serve in law enforcement by
giving states and localities the resources they
need to ensure that all police officers have the
proper equipment to keep them safe and help
prevent line-of-duty deaths.
Every day and night, in cities and towns
across America, the men and women who
wear the uniform risk their lives to protect us
as we go to school, to work, and spend time
with our families.
And so, as we commemorate National Po-
lice Week, let’s take a moment to thank those
officers for their bravery, selfless dedication
and tireless efforts to keep our communities
safe.
To those who serve us, who wear the uni-
form, and the badge, and the gun, thank them
for their service. I also thank them for their
dedication and the sacrifices they and their
families make to keep the rest of us safe. God
bless them.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATON
HON. LARRY BUCSHON
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. BUCSHON. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on May 16, 2019, in order
to deliver the Commencement Address at the
Concordia Seminary in Saint Louis, Missouri.
Had I been present, I would have voted:
YEA on Roll CAll No. 210; NAY on Roll Call
No. 211; NAY on Roll Call No. 212; YEA on
Roll Call No. 213; and NAY on Roll Call No.
214.
f
HONORING PATTY AND IAN
CARLIS
HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I am hon-
ored to rise today in recognition of my friends
Patty and Ian Carlis, who have been selected
as the honorees of Congregation Keneseth
Israel’s annual Gala.
Patty and Ian Carlis have been active and
engaged members of their community, helping
to leave a lasting impact for the people of Le-
high County, Pennsylvania, and beyond.
Moved by the historic atrocities of the Holo-
caust and the need for greater awareness,
Patty used the performing arts to educate her
community’s young people. Through shows
like ‘‘The Library’’ and other works, Patty
played an instrumental role in inspiring the an-
nual Youth and Prejudice Conference, paving
the way for a more sophisticated and mean-
ingful understanding of the Holocaust for mid-
dle and high-school students.
Ian Carlis served as a dentist at Bethlehem
Smiles, going on to become the President of
the dental staff of Lehigh Valley Hospital,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17MY8.003 E17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E621
May 17, 2019
where he was a clinical educator for the Hos-
pital and a member of the Continuing Dental
Education Committee. Ian has graciously
served both the profession and the community
which he values so greatly.
To take their service even further, the
Carlises went on to create the Ian and Patty
Carlis Fund, a donor-advised fund which pro-
vides an array of grants to various organiza-
tions in greater Lehigh Valley.
As a Lehigh Valley native myself, I con-
gratulate them on this well-deserved honor
and thank them for their continued leadership
in their community. May they go from strength
to strength.
f
IN HONOR OF FIFTY YEARS OF
DEDICATED SERVICE BY THE
MICHIGAN 33RD DISTRICT COURT
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Michigan’s 33rd District
Court for fifty years of dedicated service. The
court’s efforts continue to improve and protect
the communities of Southeastern Michigan.
Originally located above the Trenton Police
Station, the 33rd District Court was estab-
lished on January 1, 1969. The court and its
staff work diligently in coordination with law
enforcement officials to protect Southeastern
Michigan, overseeing criminal and civil trials.
Beyond its judicial duties, the 33rd District
Court offers a wealth of services for defend-
ants, offenders, and students. Through the So-
briety Court program, over one-hundred indi-
viduals suffering from severe alcohol and drug
abuse have received supervision, assistance,
and treatment, dramatically reducing the re-
cidivism rates of participants. The 33rd District
Court is also highly involved in education, of-
fering multiple programs to teach students
about the criminal justice system.
Regarded for its accessibility, timeliness,
and courtesy, the 33rd District Court has faith-
fully served the community for fifty years. The
efforts of the court and its staff highlight a
deep commitment to justice and public safety.
We thank the 33rd District Court for its excep-
tional service to Southeastern Michigan and its
continued work in reducing crime. The 33rd
District Court stands as a role model in crimi-
nal justice and its distinguished reputation is a
testament to its impact on the community and
the state of Michigan.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Michigan’s 33rd District Court
for fifty years of exemplary service. The
court’s work in criminal justice, reform, and
education are worthy of commendation.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF WENDY
SEELIGER-DIETSCHWEILER
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Ms. Wendy Seeliger-
Dietschweiler, who recently was recognized by
the DFW World Affairs Council as ‘‘2019 Inter-
national Educator of the Year.’’ Ms. Seeliger-
Dietschweiler is the Social Studies Chair-
woman at Lewisville High School—Harmon
Campus, where she currently teaches Ad-
vanced Placement World History, 10th Grade
World History, and ESL World Geography.
She also serves as the faculty sponsor of the
school’s Junior World Affairs Council.
Ms. Seeliger-Dietschweiler has been an ed-
ucator for the past 22 years. She received her
Bachelors of Arts degree at the University of
Texas at Austin and a Master of Arts in Public
Administration from Webster University. She
also has earned a certification in Education
Administration.
This teacher takes great pride in leading her
students by example. Ms. Seeliger-
Dietschweiler is an active volunteer in her
community and encourages her students to do
the same. Her community service includes
participation in many organizations, including
the Lewisville Lions Club, Keep Lewisville
Beautiful, and Texas Refugee Services. Pre-
viously, she served as a Peace Corps volun-
teer and taught English in China.
I congratulate Ms. Wendy Seeliger-
Dietschweiler for winning this prestigious
award, and I am grateful for her dedication to
her students and our North Texas community.
f
CELEBRATING THE 100TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE FOUNDING OF
UCLA
HON. TED LIEU
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Madam Speak-
er, today I rise to celebrate the 100th anniver-
sary of the founding of the University of Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles. What was once the larg-
est teacher training school in the state was re-
christened the Southern Branch of the Univer-
sity of California, developing into the full-
fledged university, nestled in the hills of
Westwood, with the global reputation it enjoys
today.
With 14 Nobel Laureates, 13 MacArthur Fel-
lows, nine National Medal of Science Winners,
three Pulitzer Prize winners, a Fields Medal,
and an A.M. Turing Award, UCLA’s academic
credentials are rivaled by few. And, with 117
NCAA team championships and 261 Olympic
Medals, the UCLA Bruins are in the highest
echelon of collegiate sports, with the likes of
Jackie Robinson, Kareem Abdul-Jabar,
Michelle Kwan, and Troy Aikman wearing the
Blue and Gold.
Along the way to such a historic milestone,
each successive class of students and their
professors, doctors and researchers have lit
new paths, bringing new discoveries to the
fore and making groundbreaking accomplish-
ments in almost every field.
The first node on the Internet in Leonard
Kleinrock’s laboratory in Boelter Hall; Coach
John Wooden’s almost uninterrupted streak of
10 NCAA men’s basketball championships
and his Pyramid of Success—building blocks
in the pursuit of excellence; the first diagnosis
of AIDS in the United States; and the first con-
firmation of the existence of a supermassive
black hole at the center of the Milkey Way
Galaxy by Andrea Ghez—UCLA has played
an important role in shaping the course of his-
tory, advancing our understanding of the nat-
ural and man-made worlds, and setting stand-
ards time and time again for academic and
athletic excellence.
Not only is the UCLA community proud of
the accomplishments of its students and ath-
letes while they attended this important institu-
tion, but also of the achievements of alumni as
they pursue careers in every field.
UCLA has contributed many of this coun-
try’s most dedicated public servants, including
my predecessor, Congressman Henry Wax-
man, whose 40–year record in the U.S. House
of Representatives saw passage of numerous
consumer and patient protections; Ralph
Bunche, who helped negotiate an end to the
1948 Arab-Israeli War; and Tom Bradley, the
first African American mayor of Los Angeles.
Legendary actress and comedienne Carol Bur-
nett, Academy Award-winning director Dustin
Lance Black, Academy Award-winner Tim
Robbins, film composer John Williams, and
Rock and Roll Hall of Famer Jim Morrison are
only a few of the Bruins who have left their
mark on the entertainment industry and the
collective consciousness of American culture
for the past century.
Given all that has happened in the first 100
years of UCLA’s existence, I eagerly look for-
ward to what UCLA will accomplish in its next
hundred. With the launch of the UCLA Grand
Challenges Initiatives in 2013, UCLA has set
admirable goals aimed at increasing sustain-
ability and tackling depressive disorders. The
Sustainable LA Grand Challenge focuses on
transitioning Los Angeles to rely on 100 per-
cent renewable energy and 100 percent locally
sourced water by 2050, enhancing the health
of the local ecosystem and making the region
a model for the world. The Depression Grand
Challenge aims to understand, prevent, and
treat depression, ultimately cutting the burden
in half by 2050 and eliminating it by the end
of the century.
UCLA’s accomplishments would only be
possible with the support and resources of the
Bruin family. I would like to commend Chan-
cellor Gene Block on his successful steward-
ship of the Centennial Campaign, which raised
$4.7 billion in total from more than 205,000
donors to fund programs for students and fac-
ulty in every comer of campus.
On the eve of UCLA’s centennial, I would
like to extend my sincerest congratulations to
Chancellor Block, UC President Janet Napoli-
tano, and the rest of the UCLA community as
they prepare for a year of celebration. I would
also like to recognize all the people in UCLA’s
history that worked to make sure the university
could light the way for the past century and
the next 100 years to come. Go Bruins.
f
REMEMBRANCE OF THE LIFE OF
COMMISSIONER CHRISTOPHER
MCNAIR
HON. TERRI A. SEWELL
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the extraordinary life and
legacy of the late Christopher McNair. Com-
missioner McNair was a beloved member of
the Birmingham community who, even in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17MY8.009 E17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E622 May 17, 2019
face of unspeakable tragedy, led his commu-
nity with grace and love towards a more equal
and just future.
Commissioner McNair’s daughter, Denise,
was killed in the 16th St. Baptist Church
bombing on Sunday, September 15, 1963. It
was in that moment that the McNair family be-
came forever intertwined with the Civil Rights
Movement.
Commissioner McNair was born in Fordyce,
Arkansas on November 22, 1925. Commis-
sioner McNair left his family and 11 younger
siblings to serve in the Army during World War
II. After leaving the service, he studied at
Tuskegee University and earned a degree in
agronomy in 1949. It was there that he met
Thelma ‘‘Maxine’’ Pippen, a fellow classmate,
and fell in love. After graduation, Commis-
sioner McNair took a job in Tupelo, Mississippi
teaching veterans and visited Maxine on the
weekends in Birmingham while staying with
her grandparents. The two married shortly
after and settled in Tupelo.
When Mrs. McNair became pregnant, the
couple moved back to Birmingham to be near
family. On November 17, 1951, Carol Denise
was welcomed to the world by her loving par-
ents and became the center of their lives.
Commissioner McNair was an amateur pho-
tographer and photographed Denise’s child-
hood, including the iconic photo of her wearing
her red winter coat and matching hat.
On the morning of September 15, 1963,
Mrs. McNair and Denise left their home to at-
tend church at 16th St. Baptist Church. Ten-
sions were high in Birmingham as the Civil
Rights Movement continued, and there were
frequent acts of violence throughout the city.
That morning was no exception—four mem-
bers of the Ku Klux Klan bombed the base-
ment of the church, killing Commissioner
McNair’s daughter, Denise, 11, Addie Mae
Collins, 14, Carole Robertson, 14, and Cynthia
Wesley, 14. These young girls became known
to the world as the 4 Little Girls.
That morning, Commissioner McNair was at
home preparing to go to his church, St. Paul
Lutheran, when he heard the explosion and
mistook it for thunder. After a neighbor ex-
plained what happened, he raced to the hos-
pital, and was initially relieved because he did
not see Denise’s name on a list of the injured.
Later, though, Mr. and Mrs. McNair were
asked to walk into a separate room. There,
the bodies of the four girls were covered, but
Commissioner McNair instantly recognized
Denise’s shoe peeking out.
After overcoming their anger and sadness,
the family was ready to return to their new
normal. The McNairs welcomed two more
blessings into their lives over the next five
years: Lisa McNair, almost exactly a year after
her sister’s death, and Kimberly McNair in
1968. Both girls were seen as small miracles
to the family and quickly became the light of
their parents’ lives.
After Denise’s death, Commissioner McNair
dedicated himself to serving the community
and the people of Alabama. He knew he
needed to help the state to reconcile its racial
differences and to help heal the scars from the
1960s. In 1973, Commissioner McNair was
elected the first African American State Rep-
resentative since Reconstruction, and in that
role, he worked tirelessly to bring positive na-
tional attention to the city he loved.
Commissioner McNair spent years in the
public eye as an elected official, working hard
to pass legislation that would help all resi-
dents. After serving in the legislature, Com-
missioner McNair took a chance and ran for
the Jefferson County Commission. His bid for
office was successful and he was sworn into
office in 1986 where he served until his retire-
ment in 2001.
On behalf of Alabama’s 7th Congressional
District, I ask my colleagues to join me in re-
membering the life of Commissioner Chris-
topher McNair, whose election to the Alabama
State Legislature inspired countless men and
women to run for office in the state of Ala-
bama, to continue fighting for social justice,
and to educate future generations about the
Civil Rights Movement. May we celebrate the
totality of his life today and honor his great
works during his 28 years of service to Bir-
mingham and the State of Alabama.
f
HONORING PETE RICHMOND
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Pete Richmond
as the Napa Valley Grower of the Year for
2019.
Mr. Richmond’s career in agriculture began
in 1986 after earning a degree in Agricultural
Business from California State University,
Fresno. He gained valuable experience as a
viticulturist while working at Bien Nacido Vine-
yards. Mr. Richmond went on to work for
many prestigious wineries. In 1992 he was at
Stag’s Leap Winery; he worked at Atlas Peak
Winery from 1993 to 1995; from 1995 to 2001
he was at Kendall Jackson. Mr. Richmond
founded the Silverado Farming Company, a
vineyard management company, in 2001.
Many of the finest wineries and vineyards in
the Napa Valley contract with Silverado Farm-
ing Company to manage their vineyards. The
company oversees vineyard management for
over 650 acres of grapes.
Mr. Richmond’s passion for agriculture is
not confined to the vineyard. He is involved in
our community—through his philanthropic con-
tributions and the Boards on which he sits. In
2006, Mr. Richmond established the One Per-
cent for the Community Fund, a foundation
that receives one percent of gross revenue
profits made by the Silverado Farming Com-
pany. The foundation uses the money to sup-
port at-risk youth in our community and helps
find a solution for a variety of issues that im-
pact farm workers. Mr. Richmond is on the
Farmworker Foundation Board of Directors,
OLE Health Operating Board, and the OLE
Health Foundation Board. He is also an Advi-
sory Board Member for Teens Connect, a
member of the Marketing Committee for the
Napa Valley Community Foundation, and a
past member of the Napa Valley
Grapegrower’s Board of Directors. He is active
in the housing community as a member of
Napa Valley Community Housing and Napa
County Housing Commission. Mr. Richmond is
also involved with Ag for Youth and is a
former Babe Ruth Baseball League Coach.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Richmond is the com-
munity member we should all strive to be. He
is a person of integrity, is generous and car-
ing, and well-deserving of the title Napa Valley
2019 Grower of the Year. It is therefore fitting
and proper that we honor Pete Richmond here
today.
f
RECOGNIZING MRS. SUSAN MARY
MAHEU GUERRA
HON. JOAQUIN CASTRO
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in recognition of Mrs. Susan Mary
Maheu Guerra, who passed away on May 20,
2018. Ms. Guerra hales from my hometown of
San Antonio. She is survived by her husband,
Eliberto Guerra; son, Christopher Guerra;
daughters, Jessica Guerra and Trina Bacon;
and seven grandchildren. Her contributions to
the San Antonio community will last for many
years to come. She will be greatly missed.
Mrs. Susan Guerra was born in New Orle-
ans, Louisiana on January 12, 1951 to Donald
and Marilyn Maheu. Mrs. Guerra’s journey
began after being accepted at the age of 18
to the Order of the Daughters of Charity of St.
Vincent de Paul at Guardian Angel Settlement
in St. Louis, Missouri. She attended St. Louis
University, receiving a bachelor’s degree in
social work.
After serving nine years as a nun, Mrs.
Guerra heard another calling to care for those
in her community. She began working with ju-
venile probations and at-risk families. Upon
marrying Eliberto Guerra and starting a family
of their own, Mrs. Guerra desired to do more
for children in need. In 1986, The Guerra
Family established the Guardian Angel Child
Development Center.
With over 30 years of persistence and de-
termination, Guardian Angel flourished enroll-
ing over two generations of children. The cen-
ter has provided many with a second home.
Guardian Angel is now a beacon of hope in
San Antonio and its Southside community.
The center offers a broad range of after
school and summer programs such as com-
puter classes and performing arts.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to be part of
a community that cherishes our future genera-
tions. Mrs. Susan Guerra’s legacy will be felt
by many as her commitment to child develop-
ment has inspired many. To know of her work
in bettering the lives of our kids is truly re-
markable. I have no hesitation in saying that
her legacy will endure.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE HEAD
START PROGRAM
HON. ALBIO SIRES
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. SIRES. Madam Speaker, today I recog-
nize the significant contribution of the Head
Start Program in promoting school readiness
and overall success for some of the most vul-
nerable children in our communities. On May
18, 2019, Head Start will celebrates its 54th
year of strengthening children and families
and this year, the Early Head Start program
also celebrates its 25th anniversary.
In New Jersey alone, there are currently
twenty-six Head Start Programs and twenty-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17MY8.013 E17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E623
May 17, 2019
nine Early Head Start Programs, with over
15,000 combined funded slots for these two
programs. In addition to providing academic
programming, Head Start also provides critical
health and nutrition programs, as well as sup-
port services that help many families work
their way towards economic stability.
I am proud to support the important work of
Head Start in providing children and families
within the 8th District of New Jersey every op-
portunity to succeed.
f
HONORING BATTALION CHIEF MI-
CHAEL MCMILLIN ON BEING
NAMED OAK LAWN’S TOP FIRE-
FIGHTER OF 2019
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Battalion Chief Michael McMillin of
the Oak Lawn Fire Department for being
named the Village’s Top Firefighter of 2019.
The Oak Lawn Lions Club bestows this award
on a distinguished member of the department
after being nominated by his or her peers and
selected by a committee of fire department
leaders.
Battalion Chief McMillin has distinguished
himself as a tremendous first responder and
dedicated servant to the Village of Oak Lawn.
His devoted service to the community has
earned him admiration from his fellow fire-
fighters as well as the people of Oak Lawn.
Battalion Chief McMillin exemplifies the true
characteristics of leadership and has brought
professionalism and tremendous dedication to
the Oak Lawn Fire Department.
I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring
Battalion Chief Michael McMillin of the Oak
Lawn Fire Department. I congratulate him on
his accomplishments and thank him for his
service.
f
IN HONOR OF NANCY HEDBERG
FOR THE 2019 TOWNSHIP CLERK
OF THE YEAR AWARD
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Nancy Hedberg for her
award of 2019 Township Clerk of the Year by
the Michigan Association of Municipal Clerks.
Her numerous years of dedicated service are
worthy of commendation.
Nancy Hedberg has faithfully served her
community of Scio Township for thirty-two
years. Mrs. Hedberg was initially hired as a
design consultant and worked on several ini-
tiatives, including the Jackson Boulevard
project. In 1987, she was appointed to the
Planning Commission, spending fourteen
years supervising land development in Scio
Township. From 1998 to 2008 , she served on
the Board of Review, and from 2008 onward
has worked as the Scio Township Clerk. Dur-
ing her tenure as Township Clerk, Mrs.
Hedberg has displayed incredible tenacity and
empathy.
Nancy Hedberg’s efforts have had a pro-
found impact on the residents of Scio Town-
ship. Her exemplary work highlights a commit-
ment to public service by developing deep re-
lationships with members of her community.
Praised for her continued optimism and tire-
less work ethic, Nancy Hedberg has been an
integral member of the Scio Township hall.
We thank Mrs. Hedberg for her commitment to
serving Scio Township, and we congratulate
her on her well-deserved award of the 2019
Township Clerk of the Year and her retire-
ment. Her compassion and leadership will be
missed, and we wish her good health and
every happiness in her retirement years.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Nancy Hedberg for her years
of distinguished public service. Her work has
been instrumental to the people of Scio Town-
ship.
f
DRUG PRICING AND SENIORS
HON. SYLVIA R. GARCIA
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in support of the action being taken
by this body to protect and expand affordable
health care and lower prescription drug costs.
Because of soaring prescription drug costs,
Texans and Americans are struggling to meet
their health needs.
These costs are especially burdensome for
the 65,000 senior citizens in my district, where
the average senior takes 41⁄2 medications
each month.
Last year, nearly 20 percent skipped doses
due to the high costs alone. This is absolutely
unacceptable.
This moment calls for action to protect the
health and well-being of Americans.
And action is exactly what House Demo-
crats are doing. The bills passed this week will
tackle out-of-control drug prices head-on and
fight the Trump administration’s efforts to de-
stabilize Medicare and our health care mar-
kets.
f
SUPPORTING THE EQUALITY ACT
HON. DEBBIE MUCARSEL-POWELL
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam Speak-
er, I’m proud to represent a community, Key
West, where our motto is ‘‘One Human Fam-
ily.’’
We welcome over 450 thousand LGBTQ
tourists each year who feel appreciated in our
home.
Protecting every American from discrimina-
tion is not only a fundamental value of our
country, it’s essential for the health of our
economy.
For the first time in American history, we
passed legislation that would add protections
for a community that has been ignored for too
long.
The Equality Act ensures that no one can
lose their job or home because of whom they
love or who they are.
It finally includes protections for our LGBTQ
community that are inherent in the Constitution
for all Americans.
This is the United States of America.
Equality Matters.
After all, we are all one human family.
f
HONORING AMERICAN LEGION
POST 13 IN STAUNTON, VIRGINIA
HON. BEN CLINE
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. CLINE. Madame Speaker, I rise today
to recognize 100 years of the American Le-
gion and specifically Post 13 in Staunton, Vir-
ginia. In March of 1919, Congress chartered
and incorporated the American Legion as a
veteran’s organization that works to strengthen
communities while encouraging patriotism and
honor. The American Legion is dedicated to its
fellow servicemembers and veterans.
Soon after its national charter was passed,
a group of veterans of World War I gathered
at the YMCA on Main Street in Staunton, Vir-
ginia, to organize a local American Legion
post. This year, in 2019, that post celebrates
its centennial. For the past 100 years, the
Clemmer-McGuffin American Legion Post 13
has shown unwavering support to veterans,
servicemembers, and the communities of Au-
gusta County and Staunton, Virginia. This
Staunton American Legion post is named after
two local servicemen, Augusta County resi-
dent Jay F. Clemmer, and Staunton resident
Robert A. McGuffin. Both young men were
students at the Staunton Military Academy and
were killed in 1918 during World War I. Today,
I recognize the Clemmer-McGuffin American
Legion Post as they celebrate their 100 years
of assembly in the Shenandoah Valley.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE LIFE,
SERVICE, AND SACRIFICE OF MR.
MITCHELL LUNDGAARD
HON. MIKE GALLAGHER
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life, service, and sacrifice
of Appleton firefighter Mitchell Lundgaard.
Mr. Lundgaard began his career with the
Appleton Fire Department in March of 2005
and spent the next 14 years serving and pro-
tecting his community. Through his dedication
and hard work, Mr. Lundgaard achieved the
rank of firefighter inspector.
On Wednesday, May 15, 2019, Mr.
Lundgaard tragically lost his life while on ac-
tive duty. His heroism and bravery in response
to a medical call will forever be remembered.
He was a true leader in the Appleton commu-
nity, and his absence will be felt across all of
Northeast Wisconsin.
Mr. Lundgaard’s years of service to our
community and his commitment to ensuring
the safety of others set the highest example of
citizenship that we must all strive for. Mr.
Lundgaard’s death is a tragedy for our com-
munity, and my deepest condolences go out
to his wife, three daughters, and the rest of
their family.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17MY8.016 E17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E624 May 17, 2019
Madam Speaker, I ask that the members of
this chamber rise in honor of Mr. Lundgaard’s
life, and that we keep him and his family in
our thoughts and prayers.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE FLOWER
MOUND HIGH SCHOOL BOYS SOC-
CER TEAM
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to honor the Flower Mound High School
Boys Soccer Team for winning the school’s
first Texas UIL 6A State Soccer Champion-
ship. Coach David Doyle led the Jaguars
through a remarkable season, and I congratu-
late all players and coaches for reaching this
goal.
In winning the state championship, the stu-
dents have demonstrated teamwork, dedica-
tion, and perseverance. This year, the FMHS
Boys Soccer Team has elevated the bar for
future student athletes. Its seniors are leaving
an impressive legacy for their school and the
Flower Mound community.
The team earned the nickname ‘‘Cardiac
Jags’’ for their hard-fought championship run.
The championship game ended only after 100
scoreless minutes, when Brock Clayton deliv-
ered the game-winning shot in a 4–1 penalty
kick shootout win against San Antonio L.E.E.
Goalie Landon Leach was named the state
championship game MVP for making a penalty
kick save in regulation and a second save in
the final shootout.
It is a privilege to represent Flower Mound
High School in the U.S. House of Representa-
tives. I am glad to join the students’ family,
friends, and North Texas community to cele-
brate the 2019 Flower Mound High School
Boys Soccer Team’s achievements, and I wish
them every continued success.
f
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
HON. DON BACON
OF NEBRASKA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. BACON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor May 15, 2019 as Peace Officer Me-
morial Day and May 13 through the 19, 2019
as Police Week. I stand in support of those
who put their lives on the line, day in and day
out, for the protection of those within the State
of Nebraska and all over the United States.
My district is home to two sheriff offices, a
large urban police force, numerous community
police departments, the Nebraska State Patrol,
and a hand full of federal agencies. They have
unique differences in their responsibilities yet
they are strikingly similar in how they function.
The different shapes of the badges they wear
on their chests proudly proclaims their distinct
alliance to their home agency, but it is also a
symbol that binds them all together into one
brotherhood.
These gallant law enforcement professionals
are driven to serve the public of their jurisdic-
tions. To protect the life, limb, and property in
their assigned patrol areas during their long
hours for which they have this solemn duty.
To those on the front line of our safety; it is
not about the pay, the hours, or the conditions
they work in. What is of importance to them is
the satisfaction of making the world a better
and safer place. They are the thin blue line
that stands between us and some of the dark-
est parts of our society.
When one of these brave individuals put on
their uniform and departs their home for the
streets, they are not worried for their own
safety. They know their fellow officer have
their back when needed. At great personal
sacrifice, they are pained by missing the base-
ball games or recitals of beloved children; the
birthdays and holidays they worked instead of
being home with their families.
I, like so many other members of the mili-
tary, have a very personal connection and ap-
preciation for those who choose this profes-
sion. I spent nearly thirty years in the military
and much of that time was deployed with com-
bat forces protecting our freedoms overseas:
The men and women in military uniform de-
pend on those back home in the blue uniform.
Like so many others in the military, when I
was overseas, I left my wife and children here
in the U.S. As a former commander, I can tell
you that the fastest way to negatively affect a
soldier, sailor, airman, or marine within a com-
bat situation was to have them worry about
their family back home. Our great police offi-
cers, allow the military to be a success. I am
in awe with the dedication that each officer
displays daily. When our military is reunited
with their family after a deployment, they can
relax knowing their fellow public servants pro-
vide a shield of protection. This is a profession
that takes a different type of individual, some-
one who is consistently putting their lives on
the line, someone that I have always looked
up to, a group of individuals that I cannot
thank enough for the blanket of security that
they provide.
There are members of the law enforcement
community who serve, retire, and move on in
their lives. Eventually they go home and lay
down their badge in retirement, but they will
no longer miss these family events. These
professionals have the gratitude of the con-
stituents of my district and I want to thank
them for their dedication to protect and serve.
I would like to honor some of these coura-
geous people who have long distinguished ca-
reers or who recently retired. They are:
Deputy Sheriff David J. Wintle, of the Doug-
las County Sheriff’s Office, for over 29 years
of service (deceased). This included 13 years
as a K–9 handler.
Deputy Sheriff Clarence Cooper, of the
Sarpy County Sheriff’s Office, for 22 years of
service (deceased). He also served 20 years
in the U.S. Air Force.
Officer Paul Briese Sr., of the Eppley Airfield
Police Department, for 11 years of service
(deceased). He also served 28 years with the
Omaha Police Department and 4 years as the
Sheriff of Boone County, NE.
Officer Robert Wondra, of the Omaha Police
Department, for over 25 years of service (re-
tired). This included 22 years as a member of
their SWAT team. He also served in the U.S.
Marine Corps.
Chief Les Johnson, of the Bennington Police
Department, for 26 years of service (de-
ceased).
Detective Matthew Elsasser, of the Papillion
Police Department, for 13 years. He is the Pa-
pillion Police Department’s 2018 Officer of the
Year.
I want to thank these officers and all others
for their service and sacrifice.
f
HONORING DENNIS PEDISICH
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Dennis Pedisich
for his involvement with Community Health Ini-
tiative and his leadership in providing health
insurance to residents of Napa County.
Mr. Pedisich has been active in our commu-
nity since earning his Master in Business Ad-
ministration from Santa Clara University. He
sat on the Community Health Initiative Board
of Directors for nine years. During his time on
the Board, he held many positions, including
that of Vice President. Mr. Pedisich has self-
lessly given many hours of his time to the
Community Health Initiative, which has pro-
vided over 18,000 uninsured individuals with
health insurance and access to care.
Mr. Pedisich has been active in our commu-
nity in other positions as well. He has been
the President of the Napa Valley College
Foundation, the Justin-Siena High School
Board of Trustees, and the Kiwanis Club of
Napa Valley. He also sits on the Board of
Trustees for the Queen of the Valley Medical
Center. As the former President of Napa Com-
munity Bank and Vice President of Rabobank,
Mr. Pedisich has shared his expertise of the fi-
nance community with the local non-profit sec-
tor and has helped many businesses thrive
through his generosity with his time and
knowledge.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Pedisich is an active
member of our community who uses his ex-
pertise to assist others and help important
local institutions, such as the Community
Health Initiative, thrive. The Community Health
Initiative has been able to reach such a large
number of Napa residents in no small part be-
cause of Mr. Pedisich. It is therefore fitting and
proper that we honor Dennis Pedisich here
today.
f
TRIBUTE TO ANDRES D. SARABIA
HON. JOAQUIN CASTRO
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to acknowledge and honor the
passing of Mr. Andres D. Sarabia, a commu-
nity leader in San Antonio, Texas. Mr. Sarabia
dedicated his life to advocating on behalf of
others and guiding people to use their own
voice to hold their elected officials account-
able. He passed away on Friday, May 3,
2019, and will be missed by the San Antonio
community.
Mr. Sarabia served as the first president of
Communities Organized for Public Service
(COPS) and was actively involved with the or-
ganization’s advocacy efforts for more than
four decades. Through COPS, he worked to
organize and empower local residents to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17MY8.021 E17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E625
May 17, 2019
speak up on issues that affected their commu-
nities, working to address inequities in how
local government services and resources were
allocated. Mr. Sarabia and COPS successfully
advocated across a diverse portfolio of issues,
ranging from improvements in neighborhood
infrastructure to the establishment of Palo Alto
College on San Antonio’s south side. The or-
ganization continues to serve as forum for
residents to discuss and amplify their voices
on important issues.
Perhaps Mr. Sarabia’s most enduring legacy
will be the foundation he helped establish
through COPS and the steady stream of local
leaders, activists and residents who have
been empowered through the organization’s
work to engage with their government, advo-
cate for the betterment of their community,
and continue the important work of holding
elected officials accountable.
I join my fellow residents of San Antonio in
honoring Mr. Andres Sarabia’s legacy of civic
engagement, leadership and service.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BILL JOHNSON
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio. Madam Speaker, I
was absent during last night’s amendment
votes and final passage vote on H.R. 987 due
to travel for an unavoidable medical appoint-
ment back in Ohio. Below is how I would have
voted on the amendments and final passage.
Had I been present, I would have voted:
YEA on Roll Call No. 210; NAY on Roll Call
No. 211; NAY on Roll Call No. 212; YEA on
Roll Call No. 213; and NAY on Roll Call No.
214.
f
FALLEN OFFICER REMEM-
BRANCE—NATIONAL POLICE
WEEK 2019
HON. MICHAEL GUEST
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. GUEST. Madam Speaker, earlier this
week, the 38th Annual National Peace Offi-
cers’ Memorial Service honored the men and
women who paid the ultimate sacrifice uphold-
ing the rule of law and protecting the people
of our great nation. Last year, Mississippi lost
five officers in the line of duty. I’d like to honor
them as we remember their service and sac-
rifice. Please join me in honoring:
POLICE OFFICER EMMETT PAUL MORRIS
Emmett Paul Morris, 61, lost his life in the
Line of Duty May 17, 2018, in a vehicle crash.
He served with the Raleigh Police Department
for two years. He is survived by his wife of 20
years, Dean King Morris; daughter, Candice
Lea Morris; son, Paul Scott Morris; three step
sons; and twelve grandchildren. He served
with the Reservoir Police Department prior to
his service with Raleigh Police Department.
CORPORAL WALTER ZACHERY MOAK
Walter Zachery Moak, 31, lost his life in the
Line of Duty September 29, 2018, by gunfire.
He was employed with the Brookhaven Police
Department for three years and had previously
worked for the Wesson Police Department and
Lincoln County Sheriffs Department. Zach de-
voted his time to his family and enjoyed work-
ing with and helping people in his community.
PATROLMAN JAMES KEVIN WHITE
James Kevin White, 35, also lost his life in
the Line of Duty September 29, 2018, by gun-
fire. He was employed with the Brookhaven
Police Department for 3 months and was pre-
viously employed with Lawrence County Sher-
iffs Department, where he worked for many
years. He was a soldier in the Army National
Guard and served his country in Operation
Iraqi Freedom. James was a Purple Heart re-
cipient. He is survived by two children.
PATROL OFFICER LEANN SIMPSON
LeAnn Simpson, 23, lost her life in the Line
of Duty November 24, 2018, in a vehicle
crash. She worked with the Philadelphia Po-
lice Department for 15 months. She was also
a U.S. Army veteran joining the U.S. Army at
the age of 17. She is survived by her parents,
James and Wilma Simpson-McMillan, three
sisters and four brothers.
POLICE OFFICER ROBERT MCKEITHEN
Robert McKeithen, 58, lost his life in the
Line of Duty May 5, 2019, by gunfire. Officer
McKeithan was a U.S. Air Force veteran. He
had served with the Biloxi Police Department
for 24 years and was planning on retiring by
the end of the year. He received the Medal of
Valor when he risked his life to save four chil-
dren during Hurricane Katrina. He enjoyed
spending time with his family and was deeply
involved in his community. He is survived by
his wife, daughter, stepdaughter, and two
stepsons.
Ronald Reagan once said, ‘‘there can be no
more noble vocation than the protection of
one’s fellow citizens.’’ May we remember
these brave officers, their service to protecting
our communities, and the sacrifice they made
for the people who call Mississippi home.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE CENTRAL
HIGH SCHOOL PRODUCTION OF
EURIPIDES’ MEDEA
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to congratulate the cast and crew of Cen-
tral High School’s production of Euripides’
Medea, which won the 2019 Texas UIL Class
6A State One-Act Play Championship.
This is the first time that Central High
School has won the State One-Act Play
Championship, a remarkable artistic accom-
plishment, in school history. This victory was a
team effort, and all members of the cast and
crew have rightfully earned this honor.
I also congratulate Ms. Renee Powell for
earning a spot on the State All-Star Cast and
Mr. Jose Gonzalez for earning an Honorable
Mention. This recognition of their talent and
dedication is well-deserved.
I am glad to join the entire Keller ISD com-
munity in celebrating the success of these stu-
dents, and I wish them every continued suc-
cess in their academic and professional en-
deavors.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, on Roll
Call Vote Nos. 197, 198, 199, 200, 201 and
202 from May 10, 2019 I am not recorded be-
cause I was not present in the House. I was
presiding over a commissioning ceremony for
my cousin, Joe Gutsoke, who was newly com-
missioned in the Army as a 2nd Lieutenant in
the University of North Dakota’s ROTC pro-
gram.
Had I been present, I would have voted:
NAY on Roll Call No. 197; NAY on Roll Call
No. 198; NAY on Roll Call No. 199; YEA on
Roll Call No. 200; YEA on Roll Call No. 201;
and NAY on Roll Call No. 202.
f
RECOGNIZING BARBARA STAN-
FIELD AS A HOSPITAL HERO OF
2019
HON. DENVER RIGGLEMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 17, 2019
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Madam Speaker, this
week marks National Hospital Week. As such,
I’d like to recognize the important work being
done by one of my constituents, Ms. Barbara
Stanfield. Barbara works at LifePoint Health’s
Sova Health in Danville, Virginia, and has
been selected as a 2019 Hospital Hero by the
Federation of American Hospitals, an award
recognizing hospital employee for their dedi-
cated work inside and outside the four walls of
their hospital.
Barbara Stanfield has been a fixture at Sova
Health for over 40 years and is best known for
small acts of kindness that have a significant
impact on those around her. Barbara works to
comfort those receiving a difficult diagnosis, as
she battled both multiple sclerosis and cancer.
She further channels her experience with ill-
ness through her service on the hospital’s
cancer committee, which focuses on improving
care, resources, and education for cancer pa-
tients in the community.
Barbara’s commitment to those in need
doesn’t stop when she leaves the hospital
though; she also supports the Relay for Life,
United Way, and the Boys & Girls Club.
Madam Speaker, I hope you’ll join me in
congratulating Barbara Stanfield for her rec-
ognition as a Hospital Hero of 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A17MY8.025 E17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D558
Friday, May 17, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
The Senate was not in session and stands ad-
journed until 3 p.m., on Monday, May 20, 2019.
Committee Meetings
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 18 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 2819–2836; and 1 resolution, H. Res.
388 were introduced. Pages H3961–62
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H3963–64
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 2333, to direct the Comptroller General of
the United States to conduct an assessment of the re-
sponsibilities, workload, and vacancy rates of Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs suicide prevention coordina-
tors, and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–70);
H.R. 2359, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to submit to Congress a report on the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs advancing of whole health
transformation, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–71); and
H.R. 2372, to direct the Comptroller General of
the United States to conduct an assessment of all
memoranda of understanding and memoranda of
agreement between Under Secretary of Health and
non-Department of Veterans Affairs entities relating
to suicide prevention and mental health services,
with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–72). Page H3961
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by a yea-and-nay vote of 215 yeas to
191 nays with one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No.
215. Pages H3929, H3950
Equality Act: The House passed H.R. 5, to prohibit
discrimination on the basis of sex, gender identity,
and sexual orientation, by a recorded vote of 236
ayes to 173 noes, Roll No. 217.
Pages H3931–50, H3950–53
Rejected the Steube motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on the Judiciary with instructions
to report the same back to the House forthwith with
an amendment, by a recorded vote of 181 ayes to
228 noes, Roll No. 216. Pages H3950–52
Pursuant to the Rule, the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by the Committee
on the Judiciary now printed in the bill shall be
considered as adopted. Page H3931
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 12 noon on Monday, May 20th for Morning Hour
debate. Page H3953
House Democracy Partnership—Appointment:
The Chair announced the removal of Representative
Plaskett and the Speaker’s appointment of the fol-
lowing Member to the House Democracy Partner-
ship to fill the vacancy: Representative Davis (CA).
Page H3961
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote and
two recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H3950, H3952 and
H3952–53. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 1:46 p.m.
Committee Meetings
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies held a
markup on the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020. The
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17MY9.REC D17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D559
May 17, 2019
Appropriations Bill, FY 2020 was forwarded to the
full Committee, without amendment.
MEMBERS’ DAY HEARING: HOUSE
COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND
TECHNOLOGY
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Members’ Day Hear-
ing: House Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology’’. Testimony was heard from Representatives
Norman, Babin, Tipton, and Sherman.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
MAY 20, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Readiness
and Management Support, closed business meeting to
markup those provisions which fall under the subcommit-
tee’s jurisdiction of the proposed National Defense Au-
thorization Act for fiscal year 2020, 4 p.m., SR–232A.
Subcommittee on Airland, closed business meeting to
markup those provisions which fall under the subcommit-
tee’s jurisdiction of the proposed National Defense Au-
thorization Act for fiscal year 2020, 5 p.m., SR–232A.
Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, closed business
meeting to markup those provisions which fall under the
subcommittee’s jurisdiction of the proposed National De-
fense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2020, 5:30 p.m.,
SR–232A.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to receive a closed brief-
ing on the prospects for Afghan peace, 5 p.m., SVC–217.
House
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
1500, the ‘‘Consumers First Act’’; and H.R. 1994, the
‘‘Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhance-
ment Act of 2019’’, 5 p.m., H–313 Capitol.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Com-
mittee, business meeting to consider public release of Mi-
chael Cohen interview transcripts (February 28 and March
6, 2019) and certain exhibits, 5:30 p.m., HVC–304. This
meeting is closed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D17MY9.REC D17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D560 May 17, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, May 20
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will be in a period of
morning business. At 5:30 p.m., Senate will vote on the
motion to invoke cloture on the nomination of Daniel P.
Collins, of California, to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Ninth Circuit.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Monday, May 20
House Chamber
Program for Monday: To be announced.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bacon, Don, Nebr., E624
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E625
Bucshon, Larry, Ind., E620
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E620, E621, E624, E625
Calvert, Ken, Calif., E619
Castro, Joaquin, Tex., E622, E624
Chabot, Steve, Ohio, E620
Cline, Ben, Va., E623
Deutch, Theodore E., Fla., E620
Dingell, Debbie, Mich., E621, E623
Gallagher, Mike, Wisc., E623
Garcia, Sylvia R., Tex., E620, E623
Griffith, H. Morgan, Va., E619
Guest, Michael, Miss., E625
Johnson, Bill, Ohio, E625
Lieu, Ted, Calif., E621
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E619, E623
Mucarsel-Powell, Debbie, Fla., E623
Riggleman, Denver, Va., E625
Scalise, Steve, La., E619
Sewell, Terri A., Ala., E621
Sires, Albio, N.J., E622
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E622, E624
Wenstrup, Brad R., Ohio, E620
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 May 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D17MY9.REC D17MYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
