Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S307
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, SATURDAY, JANUARY 19, 2019 No. 12
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Tuesday, January 22, 2019, at 12 p.m.
Senate
SATURDAY, JANUARY 19, 2019
The Senate met at 11 a.m. and was
called to order by the Honorable SUSAN
M. COLLINS, a Senator from the State
of Maine.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, You are holy, the only
God, and Your deeds sustain us. Be-
cause of You, we live and move and
breathe and have our being.
Lord, remind our lawmakers of the
wisdom of Proverbs 22:3: ‘‘A prudent
person foresees the danger ahead and
takes precautions; the simpleton goes
blindly on and suffers the con-
sequences.’’ Lord, may our lawmakers
be prudent people, seeing the danger
from afar and preparing to meet it.
Grant our Senators wisdom and cour-
age for the living of these challenging
times.
We pray in Your sacred Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the following letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, January 19, 2019.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable SUSAN COLLINS, a Sen-
ator from the State of Maine, to perform the
duties of the Chair.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Ms. COLLINS thereupon assumed the
Chair as Acting President pro tempore.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Morning business is closed.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—Motion to Proceed
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senate will resume consideration of
the motion to proceed to S. 1, which
the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to the consideration of
S. 1, a bill to make improvements to certain
defense and security assistance provisions
and to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United States-
Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and
to halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian
people, and for other purposes.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senator from Virginia or his designee
will control 2 hours of debate.
The Senator from Virginia is recog-
nized.
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, in the
last 2 days, I have stood on this floor
and asked that the American Govern-
ment reopen. On Thursday, I asked
unanimous consent to proceed to the
bipartisan House bill funding most
shuttered government Agencies
through the end of this fiscal year. The
majority leader objected to my re-
quest.
Yesterday, I asked unanimous con-
sent to proceed to the bipartisan House
bill funding Homeland Security Agen-
cies through February 8. The junior
Senator from Oklahoma, on behalf of
the majority leader, objected to my re-
quest.
So today marks the 29th day of the
government shutdown—29 days of fiscal
pain and mental anxiety and national
humiliation; 29 days of families wor-
ried about mortgage payments, can-
celing medical appointments, losing
their place at a favored daycare that
they can no longer afford to pay for; 29
days of being required to travel to
work without being paid and without
even receiving money to put gas in
your car to get to work; 29 days of
being unable to add your newborn child
to your Federal health insurance pol-
icy; 29 days of being turned away from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:56 Jan 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A19JA6.000 S19JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S308 January 19, 2019
services like food stamps or National
Parks or affordable housing programs
or domestic violence services; 29 days
of chemical spills not being inves-
tigated or food products not being in-
spected; 29 days of our veterans who
serve as Federal employees or Federal
contractors suffering as political pawns
in an unnecessary stunt; 29 days of see-
ing the country you love cease to be an
example to others.
If a foreign adversary—if a foreign
adversary—through an active attack or
cyber attack disabled major portions of
the American Government pushing
800,000 Federal employees to the brink
of financial disaster and blocking mil-
lions of Americans from accessing gov-
ernment services critical to their
lives—if a foreign adversary did that,
make no mistake, we would consider it
an act of war.
If a foreign adversary figured out a
way to block border guards, U.S. mar-
shals, Coast Guard members, DEA
agents, ATF agents, FBI agents, TSA
agents, and air traffic controllers from
being paid to intentionally hurt those
whom we charge with protecting our
safety and security, we would consider
it an attack on our country.
If a foreign adversary took these
steps to embarrass and humiliate us, to
bring much of the Nation to a halt, to
divide us against one another, we
would consider it an attack on our
country.
But these acts are not being con-
ducted by a foreign adversary. They
are being intentionally waged against
American workers and American citi-
zens by the President of the United
States. He advertised in December that
he would shut down the government
and gladly own the responsibility for
it. He has claimed pride—pride—in
what he has done and suggested that he
might keep government shut down for
weeks or months. It is this President
who is waging this attack against
broad swaths of the American public.
I think you are aware of this: I have
long criticized the tendency of Con-
gress to allow Presidents of either
party to wage war without requiring
congressional approval. I criticized
President Obama for unilateral mili-
tary action in Libya, Iraq, and Syria,
and I have criticized President Trump
for unilateral military action in Syria
and Yemen. But I have reserved my
toughest criticisms in this matter for
Congress. How can we be silent when a
President chooses to initiate war, send-
ing our troops into harm’s way, with-
out a congressional vote? How can we
be silent when the President takes
such an action without a congressional
vote?
Today, I am critical of this Senate—
a body I love, with 99 other colleagues
I love. I am critical of this Senate for
allowing this President to wage this at-
tack against American workers and
citizens without being willing to hold a
vote about it.
Just a few weeks ago, this body was
very willing to vote for funding the
very Agencies that are shuttered
today. Democratic and Republican
Members decided that such a vote was
in the interest of their country, their
own States, and their own constitu-
ents. But following the vote, the Presi-
dent expressed his disappointment in
the vote, so the vast majority of col-
leagues in the majority, with notable
exceptions, obviously have changed
their position from December and are
now unwilling to vote.
The House bills that are pending at
the desk would reopen government, and
I find it truly outrageous that the ma-
jority is not yet willing to hold a vote
on those bills. Just as Congress abdi-
cates its clear responsibility constitu-
tionally by refusing to hold a vote on
the initiation of war, I believe that the
Senate is now abdicating its clear re-
sponsibility to appropriate funds for
government by refusing to even enter-
tain a vote on the bipartisan spending
bills that are before us.
Let’s be clear about this. If we were
to proceed to those bills, every Member
in this Chamber would be required to
vote either for or against government
funding in the previously agreed
amounts. We all would be held account-
able for either voting for funding or
against funding. It is this account-
ability—or, rather, the fear of being
held accountable—for a vote that is
blocking consideration of these bills.
The majority—again, with notable
exceptions, including the Presiding Of-
ficer and another Senator who will be
here today—are afraid to vote. If they
vote for funding, as they did a month
ago, they are worried that they will
make the President angry. But if they
vote against funding, they are worried
that their own constituents will be
angry.
The fear of voting and being held ac-
countable even extends to the floor ses-
sion—the unusual floor session—that
we are holding right now. At the end of
the day on Thursday, I made good on
my promise to object to adjourning the
Senate while the government was
closed. Of course, my objection, which
I had lodged earlier in the week and on
which I acted on Thursday, can be
overcome. My objection to the recess
that we were supposed to have can be
overcome by a simple majority of the
body. But, just as occurred last week,
the majority was afraid to challenge
my objection because it would have
meant that they would have had to
vote on whether to adjourn.
This shutdown—this attack on Amer-
ican workers and citizens—can end if
the Senate is just willing to vote on
the pending bills. But the fear of being
held accountable, the fear of political
consequence, is so great that the ma-
jority strategy currently is to avoid
any vote whatsoever.
What is the fear of voting compared
to the fear of losing your home? What
is the fear of voting compared to the
fear of not having health insurance?
What is the fear of voting compared to
the pain of letting your trusted baby-
sitter go or the humiliation of your
children coming to you with their
piggy banks to help you overcome your
family’s financial distress?
Can it be that one works so hard to
come to this respected place, taking an
oath to protect and defend the Con-
stitution against all enemies foreign
and domestic, but then lets fear of ac-
countability and political consequence
become the overriding factor in one’s
decisions? That politics would moti-
vate us all is no surprise but that it
would so dominate the action—or,
rather, inaction—of this body when the
government of our Nation is closed is
shocking to me. I am not young and I
am not naive, but I never would have
imagined in coming to this body that
the Senate in the Article I branch of
this democracy would take the position
that we can’t vote on any matter un-
less we know the President agrees.
I hope my colleagues will raise their
voices and demand a vote on the pend-
ing bipartisan House bills. If we vote
and the bills fail, we will have to go
back to the drawing board, but I think
we all know what will happen if we
vote on those bills. If we vote on the
House bills, the House bills will pass.
The majority currently is withholding
a vote, aware that if the vote happens,
the bills will pass.
So on day 29, as the Senate seeks to
avoid a vote and avoid accountability,
my constituents—and all of our con-
stituents—continue to suffer.
Heidi from Vienna wrote me:
My husband and I are both veterans and
current federal employees without pay.
They are both veterans and both Fed-
eral employees without pay.
[W]e are at a breaking point. We haven’t
paid our mortgage, and our pediatrician do-
nates medication to our children.
After a life of dedicated public service in
support of my country, I never expected to
find myself in this position. It’s a breach of
trust.
Sarah from Ashburn:
My husband and I are both federal law en-
forcement and have been working without
pay during the shutdown. We have three
young children and continue to not only
have bills to pay, but childcare expenses to
pay so we can continue to work without pay.
We haven’t had to borrow money yet, but
soon we will have to take a good look at
what our options are. We have cut back on
all expenses, no eating out, no purchasing
anything other than food and gas, no reg-
istering for spring sports or after school pro-
grams, no buying Girl Scout cookies or any-
thing else extra. We don’t want to get our
margin of cash so low that we will have to
use credit. We have been trying very hard to
get out of debt—and credit is a last resort for
us. We will be dipping into our emergency
fund soon. I have worked for the federal gov-
ernment for 21 years, and I am very
frustrated.
John from Fairfax Station:
My son is one of hundreds of thousands of
federal contractor employees who have been
essentially furloughed from their consulting
jobs and forced to use 2019 Annual Leave (ex-
hausted last week) and pay for lapsed health
insurance because the federal agency that he
works for has been closed by the Government
Shutdown. If the Shutdown is not ended
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:56 Jan 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19JA6.002 S19JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S309
January 19, 2019
soon, my son’s firm will have to start laying
off staff to offset millions of dollars in losses
due to the federal work stoppage. This is the
unpublicized nightmare of the shutdown
. . . . hundreds of thousands of federal con-
tractors may lose their jobs because Trump
is holding federal workers (and their con-
tractors) hostage for his ineffective wall.
Theresa from Middletown:
I have been a public servant for 30+ years
and you are using me and my family as
pawns in a game no one can win. . . . I’ve
dedicated my life to serving the American
people and this is how you treat me?
I’ve had to go from giving food to the local
pantries to wondering when I will be the one
visiting these same pantries. My child is
stressed because he doesn’t know when he
may be hungry, when we may be homeless,
or when we will have to start selling things
off—he literally has unopened Christmas
gifts he won’t open because he’s afraid we’ll
need to return them to buy food. All for a
. . . wall! That wall won’t clothe, house or
feed my family. God help us all!
Elizabeth from Pound, which is in
Appalachia, VA:
Mr. President, I write to you as the wife of
a Federal Corrections Officer at USP Lee. I
urge you to help find a solution for the nu-
merous people, like my family, who are get-
ting ready to have our worlds crumble. On
this Saturday, my family will not receive
the paycheck my husband has earned for the
past weeks. The stress that this is causing
myself and my husband is compounding. We
do not know how we are going to pay our
bills, much less feed our children. He cannot
even attempt to get a temporary job in the
meantime because he is still having to go to
his . . . job. My family’s lives are being used
as pawns in a political war. We are a typical
working family in a rural area who live pay-
check to paycheck. We pay our bills and
taxes and have good credit and all of this is
being jeopardized at no fault of our own. I
cannot imagine going to my daughter’s
dance teacher and saying please continue to
provide her with classes and we will pay you
eventually, or the power company and say-
ing please keep our lights and heat on and
we will pay you eventually, etc. We do not
know when that will be but ‘‘eventually’’.
. . . SOMETHING HAS TO BE DONE TO FIX
THIS!
Jacquelyn from Manassas:
I am an FAA 35 years of service federal ex-
cepted and essential employee.
This is an interesting one.
December 23, 2018, would have been my re-
porting date to a new facility closer to my
elderly mother to assist in her home care. I
have broken my lease at my current resi-
dence and obtained an apartment at the new
station [near my mom], which I can’t move
to until after this ‘‘Shutdown.’’ The ‘‘Shut-
down’’ has placed my career and life in
limbo. My 81 year old Mother is anticipating
my aid in her health and medical care. The
financial burden of my Mother not receiving
the biweekly allotment I provide has caused
undue stress on her and myself. The urgency
of my moving closer to her is time critical
[for both her health and my finances].
Carolanne from Fairfax:
We are stationed in Australia—
Her husband is a Federal employee,
stationed overseas—
far from family and friends, with limited em-
ployment options for myself as the spouse.
And now we find ourselves without a pay-
check. And still liable for paying our mort-
gage on our home in Fairfax City. And liable
for paying all medical expenses out of pock-
et, including my son’s surgery two weeks be-
fore Christmas . . . . It’s not a game.
Gracie from Woodbridge:
I am writing you now asking for your help.
I’ve been a loyal Federal government em-
ployee for . . . 16 years, receiving 1⁄3–1⁄4 of
what I could make in the private sector with
little or no thanks from anyone. My hus-
band, a veteran, was diagnosed with Stage IV
colon cancer in June 2015 at the age of 35 and
has been receiving treatment since, which is
adding to our debt. We have two young chil-
dren who each require the basics, of course,
and who are involved in sports, something
we want to encourage. We have a mortgage
payment, car payments, other debt, and stu-
dent loan debt, which we will likely still be
paying when our children go to college. And
we have not been able to save for their col-
lege because we’re still paying mine off. . . .
All this adds salt to the wound of also being
a furloughed employee. I know I am not
alone but we are being held hostage for polit-
ical purposes. So I’m not receiving any pay
right now and the Department of Education
is somehow calculating that I should be able
to pay $600/a month [for my loans]. I do not
like asking for help. I was raised to be very
independent and pull myself up from my
bootstraps.
Sara from Fredericksburg:
I am a mother of 2 and a wife to an FBI
employee. We are now approaching the end
of week 4 of the shutdown and there is no end
in sight. By the end of this month our ac-
counts will be almost empty. We have had to
have the hard conversation with our children
about the lack of funds and making cuts in
order to pay our bills and cost of medication.
My son has asthma and a blood pressure dis-
order, which both can be life threatening. He
is on medication to treat his conditions, but
if the government doesn’t open and our sole
provider does not receive his pay, how are we
supposed to fulfill our responsibilities as par-
ents in keeping our kids safe and healthy?
Finally, Christopher from Leesburg
shared this on my Facebook page:
I’m a federal employee who used the last of
his discretionary funds today to attend my
grandfather’s funeral, my second funeral in a
month, and repair our vehicle so that we
could make it home to our kids from hours
away. Now I’m preparing to file for unem-
ployment, my wife is going to have to try to
get a job despite her severe and crippling
anxiety, and we’ve had to return some of the
Christmas presents [that we bought] for our-
selves, our four-year-old son, and our six-
year-old daughter. Now we have to figure out
what to do next because our car is still in
need of major repair, we need to buy food for
our daughter’s lunchbox for kindergarten
each day, and afford family meals and gas.
We’ve always lived paycheck to paycheck be-
cause of the high cost of living in northern
Virginia and we don’t have the option to
take out loans because we incurred so much
debt moving to the area and dealing with my
wife’s medical bills. . . . I gave up military
service to join the civil service and have
been so disheartened to see the lack of re-
spect for federal employees.
This is just a sample, and I know
every Senator in this body is receiving
these. Per capita, I may receive more
because I represent Virginia, but only
20 percent of our Federal employees are
in the DC-Maryland-Virginia area, and
80 percent are all over the country.
These stories are common. We are get-
ting them in the dozens and scores
every day.
I return to a request, and I am speak-
ing to the choir as I address this Pre-
sider because I know we largely share
the views that I have expressed.
We stand for office. We work hard to
get here. We are elected, and it is a
privilege to be here. The thing we are
supposed to do in being here is to be
willing to vote yes or no and be held
accountable for our votes.
The fact that these bills that would
end the pain that I have just read to
you about are sitting right there on the
desk and could be voted on imme-
diately if the majority agreed but that
maneuvers are being used to block the
vote from happening is, in some ways,
the most discouraging aspect of this.
With confidence, I am aware that if
the bills were called and voted on, we
would vote for them, and government
could reopen immediately. I would en-
courage my colleagues to abate and
end the pain that I have just described
and hold that vote.
With that, I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
it is unusual to be here on a Saturday
morning in Washington, DC, but recog-
nizing that we have been in the midst
of a partial government shutdown for
now 29 days, it seems to me that this is
an absolutely appropriate place where
we should be. We should be here work-
ing. We should be here trying to figure
out how we get back to the business of
governing.
I think it is fair to say that there has
been a great deal of frustration. I think
the four Senators who are assembled in
this Chamber today are part of a group
with whom I have shared that frustra-
tion on a daily, if not hourly, basis.
I think there have been very good-
faith efforts to try to advance discus-
sions on a bipartisan basis and a bi-
cameral basis, trying to allow for a
process that would allow us to consider
the work and the legitimate request of
a President who has clear priorities
when it comes to border security and
what we need to do and how we might
need to do it, but it is very difficult to
do it when we are not fully governing,
when you have a partial government
shutdown, when you have men and
women who we are asking to do the
work within their Agencies, but then
they are not being paid. They are being
told they will be paid when this is all
over, but the uncertainty of when that
‘‘all over’’ is is very heavy on them—
very heavy on them and their families.
Today, I want to share with col-
leagues the view from one community
in Alaska. Alaska is a State that relies
heavily on our Coast Guard. We have
about 3,000 active Coast Guard in this
State—2,972 exactly, and 285 civilians.
We are proud to host the largest Coast
Guard Air Station in the country on
Kodiak.
I thought Kodiak was the largest is-
land in the country. It is not. Hawaii
beats us. The Big Island beats us. Ko-
diak is a large, large island off of the
southeastern, southwestern, and south
central part of the State of Alaska.
There are about 6,000 people in Ko-
diak—6,013 based on the last census.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:56 Jan 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19JA6.004 S19JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S310 January 19, 2019
Within that Coast Guard community of
Kodiak, you have 1,141 Active Duty, 102
civilian employees, and 1 Coast Guard
reservist. This is a community. When
they say that we are a Coast Guard
town, Kodiak is truly a Coast Guard
town. It is about one-third of the econ-
omy that is based off of the Coast
Guard there.
This is an island that—I don’t know.
I probably should have checked air
prices before I came to the floor, but it
seems to me the last time I flew down
there, going out of Anchorage to Ko-
diak, you are probably spending $400 to
$500 for an airplane ticket.
So you are geographically removed.
You are removed certainly from a fi-
nancial perspective in terms of your
ability to move back and forth. Jobs
are challenging in a community like
this. December, January are usually
the highest months of unemployment,
but in December, so just last month,
we were at 8.8 percent in Kodiak. You
compare that to last January of 2018, it
was 8.4 percent. So there is a lot of un-
employment there. There are not a lot
of jobs and job opportunities in a com-
munity like this.
So you have your Coast Guard, and
the other economic base for the com-
munity, really, is our fisheries and our
local and small businesses.
So within the fisheries, you have
your Federal Government Agencies
that are there to provide for the oppor-
tunities. Right now, we are going into
the ‘‘A’’ season for pollock, I believe,
coming up in just a few days, but this
requires your Agencies to be up and
functioning. So it is NOAA. It is
NMFS. It is Fish and Wildlife. You
need to have these folks in their offices
answering the phone, responding to
texts.
We also, on Kodiak Island, have sig-
nificant refuge land, parkland, and,
again, Fish and Wildlife managers on
the refuge there.
So we have an island community cut
off from the rest of the State—probably
4,300, 4,400 miles from where we are sit-
ting here today—and the reliance on
the Federal interest is probably pretty
disproportionate relative to other com-
munities.
Much of the Indigenous population
there relies on the Kodiak Area Native
Association Healthcare. So the Indian
Health Service is having challenges be-
cause the Department of Interior is
shut down. So the impact in so many
different ways on this community of
6,000 people is extraordinarily substan-
tial.
I made contact with the spouses of
the Coast Guard’s men and women
there and asked if I could do a Skype,
do a FaceTime with them while they
were having coffee because I wanted to
understand for myself, what does it
mean when you are the Coast Guard
spouse and your husband or your wife
is out either flying as a C–130 pilot
down in the Aleutians, whether it is a
helo pilot who is looking to do a
medevac out of King Cove, whether it
is the wife of one of the spouses who is
out on the Alex Haley, whether it is the
spouse who is at dry dock on the SPAR
in Seward, the aviation instructor—
these are all men and women who are
going out, and they are doing really
important things for us in Alaska.
This is a time of year when the fish-
ing industry is going strong. It is crab
season, but it is also not cruise weath-
er for those who are out on the waters,
and we rely on the extraordinary ef-
forts of our Coast Guard’s men and
women to provide for that search and
rescue, if need be, and fisheries en-
forcement—so the role the Coast Guard
plays in not only supporting the local
economy but making sure that second
leg of our economy, the fisheries, are
safe, regulated, and protected.
Let me show you just the base there
in Kodiak. It is nothing grandiose and
beautiful and extraordinary. It is actu-
ally an extraordinarily beautiful loca-
tion to be stationed there in Kodiak.
This is the community. This is where
they live and work and raise their fam-
ilies. There are others who are sitting
up on the hillside in housing, but it is
a pretty tight-knit community.
To be able to visit with this group of
spouses yesterday was really quite
compelling, and so I wanted to just
take a few minutes and share some of
the comments from these, primarily
women—and men—about what is hap-
pening right now.
One individual, Sarah, mentioned
that her husband is out on the SPAR,
which is a cutter. Well, they are in dry
dock in Seward, another Coast Guard
facility, but because they are not being
paid, they are sitting in a community
where they really have no resources to
do anything. They have to stay on the
ship. It is not like they can go off and
go out and about. You are really kind
of stuck there.
She happens to work for the Chamber
of Commerce in Kodiak and so was able
to share some of the stories about the
impact on the local businesses, and she
was saying that you go on Facebook
and there will be postings of empty res-
taurants, empty establishments, say-
ing: Please come. We are looking for
customers. There is a discount for com-
ing in and having a cup of coffee.
King’s Diner’s business is down 50 per-
cent. They are offering a 10-percent dis-
count to those without paychecks.
We got a call from a gentleman who
has a welding business there in Kodiak,
and he says he is out $300,000 in pay-
ments from Coast Guard projects that
have already been completed. He said
these contracts equal 10 to 15 percent
of his gross annual income. So what is
he doing? He is not a Federal employee,
but it is impacting his business in a
significant—significant—way, and he is
saying: I am going to have to go out
and get loans.
So the impact on the community
writ large is clearly significant.
Some of the other comments we
heard was about the effort to provide
for food—so the effort to provide for
local food distribution through a food
pantry and the effort to collect dona-
tions from around the State to be able
to send down to Kodiak. These are
things where you think, oh, the gen-
erosity of Alaskans to come together,
but in talking to these spouses, they
reminded me: We are the guardians of
our homeland. We are proud people. We
are proud families, and to think that in
order to be able to serve and to keep
the family fed, I have to go to a food
pantry? This is really, really very, very
hard.
Kodiak, as you saw from the map
there, is isolated. Isolation delivers a
lot of different things, and one thing it
clearly delivers is that it is expensive
to live there. It is expensive to live
there.
We were told that right now the price
of gas is about $4 a gallon. There was a
report that came out of NBC this week
that mentioned that one individual
said his weekly budget for food was
three times more than his friend who
happens to live in Ohio. So it is keep-
ing your house warm, filling up your
vehicle, buying groceries at the store.
Childcare is something we talked
about extensively because the hours at
the childcare center have been cut
back. There is no alternative, really,
out in the community for childcare for
these Coast Guard men and women.
There is, I think she said, not even two
facilities where they were taking chil-
dren under the age of 6 months. So in-
fants we are seeing on base—and appar-
ently there has been a good slug of new
babies who have been born. We are
growing some new Coast Guard re-
cruits here, but when you don’t have
the ability to provide for childcare, and
you need to be working, where do you
go? What do you do?
The price of childcare, in talking to
one of the spouses there, is $1,600 a
month. So think about that. You have
a child, $1,600 a month for one child,
and you are paying $4 a gallon for gas.
You are some 4,000 to 5,000 miles away
from any family support. So it is not
like you can just say to grandma or to
your aunt: Hey, can you come and help
me with the kids? You don’t have that
kind of support like we do in other
areas.
So when we talk about the impacts of
a shutdown, a partial shutdown, and
not getting pay, at least for this pe-
riod, for an indefinite period, it is more
than just the financial impact. We
talked a lot about that, but even more
than the financial impact was the
stress that comes to the families be-
cause of the financial impact.
The reality you face as a Coast Guard
family is you move a lot. So you have
that stress. You are away from your
family support system, like I men-
tioned. You have a lot of families with
new kids. Now you don’t know when
you are going to see that pay. You are
in a place where your costs are really
high. You don’t have many options for
short-term or short-time work.
I asked: Well, what are you doing?
Are any of you getting additional work
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19JA6.005 S19JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S311
January 19, 2019
to help bridge this gap? They all just
kind of laughed. It wasn’t a happy
laugh. It was a cynical laugh, like,
where do you expect us to go to work
when the establishments we might go
to, whether it is a restaurant or some
small business, is posting things on
Facebook, saying that we need cus-
tomers? Do you think they are going to
hire people? That is not happening in a
community like this.
Further, they don’t know how long
they may be there. If it requires some
level of training and you can’t commit
and you say: Well, if the government
gets back to business, maybe, just
maybe, I don’t need to be here—well,
you are not going to be investing in
that individual. So you have that
stressor.
The stress I think our families see—
and I have such respect for the men
and women who are staying at home
while our Active are serving, whether
they are helping pluck fishermen out of
the sea in the north or whether they
are interdicting drugs in the southern
waters—spouses have learned how to
hold things together and be tough, just
figure it out. There is not a lot of com-
plaining that is going on.
When you have a mom tell me, as she
did yesterday, that the spending money
the kids got for Christmas, they said:
We are not going to spend it, Mom, be-
cause we think we might need it for
food or when the 13-year-old girl says:
I am not going to cash the birthday
check I got from Grandma because we
might need it—and I was reminded by
several of these spouses that this is an
adult problem. This is not a kids’ prob-
lem. Our children should not have to be
worrying about this, but they can’t
help but pick it up. They know what is
going on, and they are worried. To
have a mom tell me—one of the moms
said: We are just doing everything to
pull it together, so I am having to say
things like: I am sorry. We are not
going to be ordering the yearbook.
This is not paying for fancy sports
programs even, it is: I don’t know that
we are going to be able to order the
yearbook, and it is canceling tutors. It
is making a difference in all of that.
I think, again, about the weight our
spouses are bearing and how they are
handling it.
One woman said: Hey, we are lucky.
My husband is an avid hunter and a
fisherman. We have a freezer full of
meat. We have moose and salmon, but
not everybody is so lucky here.
One woman said: I have made a com-
plete inventory of everything I have in
the pantry just so I know and I can be
planning ahead.
This is hard on everyone.
The impact to enlistment is some-
thing we need to be thinking about,
and that was raised repeatedly.
One woman said: My husband and I
both joined the Coast Guard because
we liked the stability that this offered
us—maybe not stability insofar as
moving around from location to loca-
tion but stability in the fact that you
are a Federal employee. You are going
to have that support from your govern-
ment.
She said: You know, now, I don’t
think of this as a very stable oppor-
tunity.
Another thing I learned yesterday is
that it was apparently just a week or
so ago—maybe it was a couple of weeks
ago—that the Coast Guard boot camp
program where the new recruits come
in was completed. Where did those
young Coasties go who have the new
shaved, good-looking tops? They went
back home. They sent them back home
because they don’t have any place for
them to go. What do you think that
does to recruitment?
Another issue that came up that was
fascinating to me that we don’t think
about in this land of unintended con-
sequences when there is a partial gov-
ernment shutdown that goes on for 29
days—these Coast Guard men and
women—Federal employees—when they
do official travel, it goes on an official
card. That card is issued in your name.
So if you are the Coast Guard member
who needs to go out and inspect a boat
in Dutch Harbor and you are based out
of Anchorage, a flight to Dutch Harbor
roundtrip, last I checked, is close to
$1,000. That goes on the card. The way
the process works is that you are reim-
bursed on your government card, but
during this shutdown, none of these ex-
penses are being reimbursed. That card
is tied to your name, tied to your cred-
it rating. That was where the conversa-
tion really got lively. The spouses were
talking about, do you know what hap-
pens to us when the credit rating goes
south? Do you know what that means
in terms of our ability to have a secu-
rity clearance? Do you know what that
means in terms of our ability to trans-
fer?
It would be one thing if you could
say: Oh well, I will just pay for it out
of my savings.
That was what another spouse said to
me. She said: You know, I really take
offense because I feel there are a lot of
people out there who place judgment
on us because they say ‘‘You should
have saved for something like this.’’
The response is ‘‘I am in the Coast
Guard. I move around.’’
Many of these families have invested
in a home, and when they are trans-
ferred, they keep that home. They try
to make some money off of it. Many of
them rent to another Coast Guard fam-
ily. Now that family is not getting paid
either. The stress compiled upon stress
is just awful.
We were reminded that this is not a
natural disaster; this is a manmade
disaster.
Another woman said: The military
are proud. They should be honored and
respected.
One really summed it up from the
Coast Guard’s view, in my opinion. She
said: We are not going to sink. We are
not going to sink. We will still float,
but that doesn’t mean that we are not
upset and we are not angry.
They shared these stories with a
great deal of respect but were truly
begging for us to resolve these issues.
They all understand that there is this
effort out there to pay the Active-Duty
and military Coast Guard, but there
are Coast Guard families on this base,
and there are Active Coast Guard
working side by side with the civilians,
helping them keep those boats in tip-
top shape, keeping the helicopters in
the air, keeping the C–130s in the air.
They are all working together. So how
is it right that side by side, oftentimes
sharing the same job, that one would
get pay and the others would not? So
they have said: Don’t forget the civil-
ian side as well.
I want to end my comments because
I know the Senator from Virginia
would like to speak as well.
I have a soft spot in my heart for Ko-
diak. I think that is because I myself
am a Coast Guard kid. When I go to
Kodiak, the gathering place in Kodiak
is a great little brewery called Kodiak
Brewery. It is a gathering place for not
only the politicians who come to town
but all the Coasties. The community
comes together. This is where birth-
days take place. This is where you
come and have a beer after work.
This is an online post from yester-
day. It says:
This is a sad empty brewery. We’re lonely
and you’re thirsty, and we want to support
our community in a time of need. We’re
doing a ‘‘shutdown’’ sale: $1 off servings
until sanity prevails! Hopefully we all get
through this!
There is not a soul in the place. It is
just a reminder of the extraordinary
ripple effect. When you say it is just
the Federal employees, first of all, I
think that is offensive because our
Federal employees do extraordinary
service for our country. It affects all of
us, and it is up to all of us to get this
resolved.
I have been so disappointed this week
that we have not been able to advance
a more positive solution, to work on an
immediate outcome to help with this,
but my frustration is nothing com-
pared to these families’—these men and
women who are serving, those who are
staying at home—the worry, angst, and
stress we see. We owe it to the people
of Kodiak, we owe it to the people of
this country to get this place working
again.
With that, I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. If the Senator from Virginia will
withhold for just a moment.
Mr. WARNER. Yes, Madam Presi-
dent.
f
NATIONAL SCHOOL CHOICE WEEK
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 25, submitted earlier today.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will report the resolu-
tion by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19JA6.007 S19JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S312 January 19, 2019
A resolution (S. Res. 25) designating Janu-
ary 20 through January 26, 2019, as ‘‘National
School Choice Week.’’
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The resolution (S. Res. 25) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 268
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
I understand there is a bill at the desk,
and I ask for its first reading.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will read the title of
the bill for the first time.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 268) making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. I now ask unani-
mous consent for a second reading, and
in order to place the bill on the cal-
endar under the provisions of rule XIV,
I object to my own request.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Objection having been heard, the
bill will receive its second reading on
the next legislative day.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that fol-
lowing the remarks of Senator WAR-
NER, the Senate stand adjourned under
the previous order.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The Senator from Virginia is recog-
nized.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. WARNER. Madam President, let
me thank the Senator from Alaska for
her comments and my dear friend from
Virginia for his comments. I am going
to somewhat echo what has already
been said, but what I don’t under-
stand—and for those who are listening
or viewing, the four of us and many
others on both sides of the aisle have
been working in good faith to try to
say: How do we get out of this?
The question I have is—I wonder if
all of our colleagues have actually
gone out and sat with Federal workers
or folks who are affected. How could
anyone sit with anyone who is affected
by this self-imposed personal, finan-
cial, and economic disaster and not
say: Let’s not talk about money; let’s
get the government reopened. We can
figure this out, but let’s get this gov-
ernment reopened.
I will recount some similar stories,
and I appreciated the Alaska stories of
the Coast Guard in Kodiak. In Virginia,
we have a major Coast Guard facility
down at Hampton Roads. But, as the
Senator from Alaska has mentioned, it
is not just Federal employees; it is con-
tractors and private businesses and a
host of other folks.
The Presiding Officer is part of the
group who has been trying to say: How
do we get to yes? How do we get to re-
open?
Maybe we can renew our efforts and
urge all of our colleagues. Many of
them have gone home, but I hope they
will sit down and have these kinds of
sessions.
I don’t know how anybody can look
at people who are out of work and
without pay due to nothing they have
done individually and not say that no
matter who is winning the inside-the-
beltway battle of the day, we owe it to
them to get this government reopened.
Madam President, I rise today out of
deep frustration with the administra-
tion’s treatment of Federal workers
during this government shutdown. I
will come back to this again, but I
wish—I wish there were some indica-
tion that the President, the Vice Presi-
dent, or any of his top advisers would
actually go out and do a listening ses-
sion with Federal workers. That
doesn’t seem to be too much to ask. I
want them to look those Coast Guard
spouses or those TSA employees or
those air traffic controllers in the eye
and tell them why they are being held
hostage on an issue that, frankly, has
nothing to do with their work as public
servants.
We are now on day 29 of what I call
the President’s shutdown—the longest
shutdown in U.S. history. In many
ways, we are creating the legacy of this
administration, a legacy that—the
President claimed in mid-December
that he was ‘‘proud’’ to have initiated
the shutdown that is plunging so many
Americans’ lives into chaos.
More than 800,000 Federal workers
have missed a paycheck, and that num-
ber, I think the Senator from Alaska
has alluded to and the Senator from
Virginia has alluded to, is actually a
fraction of the folks who are actually
being affected. That doesn’t count the
countless contractors—I will come
back to that in a moment—or the host
of businesses, like the brewery in Ko-
diak. They are not Federal workers.
They are absolutely being affected, and
let’s recognize that. Even when we are
reopened and those Coast Guard work-
ers are paid back, that brewery is never
going to make back its lost revenue.
The President has found time for an
Oval Office address, he has found time
for a trip to the border, and he has
found time for a tit-for-tat with Speak-
er PELOSI, but what he has not found
time for—or, for that matter, anybody
else in the White House—is to sit down
with the Federal workers who are
being affected, and I believe that is a
national disgrace.
Again, I appreciate the Presiding Of-
ficer and your colleagues listening. I
know you have made efforts, and you
are continuing to work with other col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to try
to hopefully find some sense in this dis-
aster, but the truth is, people’s time is
running out.
Over the last couple weeks, Senator
KAINE and I have heard from so many
Virginia families who are shouldering
the burden from this shutdown. I want-
ed to share some of the stories.
The Senator from Alaska told a story
about a 13-year-old who couldn’t cash a
Christmas check. At least for me—I
can’t speak for Senator KAINE—the
most compelling story, heartbreaking
story—and I am going to tell a number
of them, but this is the one I have kept
coming back to. Senator KAINE and I,
with the press, had a series of Federal
workers tell their stories. One of the
Federal workers didn’t want to come
and do it on camera, but he came up
and talked to Senator KAINE and me
afterward. He was a relatively young
guy, about 35. He was a veteran. He was
an air traffic controller. He has now
gone 4-plus weeks without a paycheck.
His wife had served in the Air Force in
an intel capacity and was suffering
from pretty significant PTSD. Because
he hadn’t had a paycheck, he couldn’t
pay the $90 copayment for his wife to
continue to see her psychiatrist and
continue to pay for her drug treat-
ment. Not unlike the story the Senator
from Alaska told, he said he has his
wife to take care of and their two kids,
a 4- and 5-year-old. The 4- and 5-year-
old kids came to their parents and
brought their piggy banks and said:
Mom and dad, can we give you what we
have in our piggy banks to help our
family?
This is the United States of America.
These are two veterans. We say we
honor their service. This is somebody
who is still going to work and working
overtime without pay to keep our air
safe. This shouldn’t be.
A few days earlier, we met with other
workers. A young father whom we met
works with the Department of Justice.
He brought his 7-week-old daughter to
this session. He said when his daughter
was born, he wanted to make sure he
could get his daughter on his Federal
insurance plan. That is his right. But
the person who was supposed to submit
the form to the insurance company had
been furloughed. He went to the doctor
and his infant daughter had an illness
and had to get a prescription. He didn’t
have the money to pay for the prescrip-
tion, and his daughter wasn’t reg-
istered on his insurance company, not
because of any fault he had made. He
wasn’t able to pay for the insurance. In
this case, thank God, the insurance
company actually worked with him,
and they brought extra proof and went
through other hoops, and he was able
to get the medicine. How many other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19JA6.009 S19JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S313
January 19, 2019
young families are going through that
same stress right now?
Eric, a Federal law enforcement
agent and father of three, wrote me an
email this week. He said missing a pay-
check caused ‘‘a tremendous amount of
strain’’ on his family. This is a law en-
forcement officer. Eric said he had
some money saved up in a rainy day
fund, but he continued to tell me, in
terms of his rainy day fund:
It’s raining extremely hard right now. At
some point, I am going to have to make
some tough decisions to ensure that my fam-
ily has a roof over its head and food on the
table.
Unfortunately, a lot of the employees
Senator KAINE and I have been talking
to don’t have that rainy-day fund.
One of the things I think we all
knew, maybe intellectually—and we
have all seen the statistics—is that
half of Americans couldn’t afford an
unexpected $400 bill without going into
financial ruin. We are seeing that play
out right now—again, not because
somebody has been mismanaging their
funds, but because they expected if
they worked for the United States of
America and if they were willing to
continue to do that work, they would
get paid.
We are now into this crisis 29 days,
and if we think we have seen the stuff
hit the fan so far, wait until this com-
ing Thursday when families go through
that second pay period where, adding
insult to injury, they get a paycheck
that says zero, or in the case of one air
traffic controller, a penny, as you get
into the new month when all their bills
come due.
Yesterday, I volunteered at a food
bank in Arlington where Federal con-
tractors and furloughed workers were
coming because their families were
running out of money. Some of these
folks came up to me and said: I viewed
myself always as middle class. I have
been working for the Federal Govern-
ment for double-digit years. They felt
an enormous amount of shame to come
to the food bank. You shouldn’t feel
shame to come to the food bank, but
their appeal was to get the government
reopened.
The President, who has never worked
for a paycheck in his life, says he can
relate. He says he is sure that the Fed-
eral workers ‘‘will make adjustments.’’
This is the very same President who
has not had the common decency to sit
down with any Federal workers and lis-
ten to their stories.
Here is what some of those adjust-
ments look like.
Lisa in Arlington wrote me an email
that says:
I am forced to look for multiple part-time
jobs to make ends meet and my savings will
soon run out. Creditors and landlords have
only so much patience with us.
Another worker whom Senator KAINE
and I met on Thursday broke down cry-
ing when she said how hard it was for
her to send her infant child away up for
a week to 10 days to stay with relatives
because her mom, who had been taking
care of that child, had to go up and
deal with her own personal business,
and she couldn’t afford daycare. That
is dispiriting and disheartening.
The Presiding Officer has already
pointed out the problem in terms of re-
cruitment and retention. Those people
who are actually trying to serve others
now suddenly see their livelihoods in
jeopardy through no fault of their own.
The truth is that this shutdown is
having a devastating effect—not only
on the short-term morale but on the
long-term morale of all our Federal
workforce.
The fact is, since we have already
agreed to pay them when we reopen,
why shouldn’t we at least go ahead
and, even if we are shut down, pay
these Federal workers come Thursday
so they don’t have to incur additional
pain and suffering? I commend so many
of us, particularly my friend the Sen-
ator from Virginia, along with Senator
CARDIN, who led the effort so that we
are giving Federal workers backpay
when we reopen.
Backpay alone doesn’t make up for
the hurt if you had to draw down from
your IRA and have a tax penalty. It
doesn’t make you whole if you have
taken an advance against your credit
card and you have to pay those fees in
paying those dollars back. It doesn’t
make you whole, as the Presiding Offi-
cer indicated, if you get dinged on your
credit rating or if you are in the proc-
ess of trying to get a security clear-
ance and that security clearance is
withheld because it appears you have
bad credit, not because you did any-
thing wrong but because the Congress
and the President can’t agree on how
to pay you when you are still asked to
do your job.
The number of current Federal em-
ployees who are eligible for retirement
is supposed to be about 30 percent over
the next few years. How many of those
Federal employees, whom we have
trained and worked with and who bring
enormous expertise, are not going to
wait until they have to retire but actu-
ally say: I am going to get out of this
job now.
The last thing we need to do is fur-
ther undermine the competitiveness of
our Federal workforce.
The Presiding Officer made this point
and Senator KAINE has made this point
that it is not just the Federal employ-
ees, but Federal contractors. I heard
from one Federal contractor from
Ashburn who says the shutdown has
‘‘rocked the financial stability of my
family.’’
You see folks in the Gallery. We
probably have a few more tourists than
we might normally have on a Saturday
because the Smithsonian shut down. I
heard from someone who is in leader-
ship in the Smithsonian, begging me,
saying those folks who work at the
Smithsonian, on one level, may get re-
imbursed, but all the folks who pick up
the trash, clean the bathrooms, and
serve the cafeteria food are all contrac-
tors. They are not direct employees of
the Federal workforce. So even when
we reopen, even when the Federal
workforce gets reimbursed, they are
out.
This is one of the things Senator
KAINE and I have been working on, and
I hope the Presiding Officer will look
at this, and I hope some of our other
colleagues who want to work toward a
solution will work on this. It is com-
plicated. In all the previous shutdowns,
we never found a way to reimburse con-
tractors. We have a piece of legislation
that may not be perfect, but it says
that for those workers who make less
than $50,000, we ought to find a way to
make sure they get reimbursed and,
then, for those above, some small per-
centage. If not, these folks will never
be made whole.
Again, think about some of the tour-
ists. Normally, there are a whole lot of
food trucks surrounding the Smithso-
nian and elsewhere around downtown.
We heard from a number of those folks
as well. They can’t continue because if
the Smithsonians aren’t open, the
tourists aren’t coming. If you have
taken out a loan to buy a food truck to
try to employ a few folks, once that
business is shut down, once your loan
is pulled, once you lose that truck—
even when we come to a solution—they
can’t reopen.
Again, I know it is unprecedented.
We have not looked at Federal contrac-
tors in the past, but at least for the
folks in low or moderate incomes who
cannot make back the 29 days of pay—
Lord knows that we listen to the Presi-
dent who says he doesn’t mind if it is
weeks, months or even years—I hope
we find a way to somehow make them
whole.
We have also seen small businesses.
In Virginia, we have disproportionately
a lot of small contractor businesses. A
small business owner and contractor in
Arlington wrote me and said:
My disabled-veteran-owned small business
will have to shut its door after serving the
Federal Government for the last 2 decades.
. . . I am going to have to put 72 families out
of work because our reserves aren’t big
enough to support the payroll expenses of
$35,000-$40,000 per day during this political
impasse.
It doesn’t take a lot of math to figure
out that if you are closed roughly 30
days, you are talking about over a mil-
lion dollars in payroll that this vet-
eran-owned small business can’t meet.
When they reopen, there is no guar-
antee that this business comes back.
It is not just the small businesses
that actually serve the government. It
is the brewery in Kodiak. It is the res-
taurants around the battlefields in
Richmond, near Senator KAINE’s home.
It is some of the campgrounds that sur-
round the Shenandoah National Park
in our Commonwealth. I think there
may be a number of our colleagues who
maybe don’t have the same concentra-
tion that Alaska or Virginia or Maine
has. If they think this problem hasn’t
gotten to them and isn’t spreading like
the plague, it will come to their States
as well.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19JA6.010 S19JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S314 January 19, 2019
Why do we have to put all of these
families and our economy through this
kind of turmoil?
Senator KAINE and I have worked
really hard recently. Those of us who
live in the national capital area know
the Metro is an important way we com-
mute. The Metro has had its share of
problems the last couple of years. Ac-
tually, in a good-news story, Virginia,
DC, and Maryland came together and
ponied up more resources so Metro
could make some of the improve-
ments—safety improvements and oper-
ating improvements—trying to im-
prove quality of service for our Federal
workforce and for tourists in our Na-
tion’s Capital. Every day—every week-
day—that the Federal Government is
shut down, Metro loses $400,000 in lost
fares per day. Metro can’t get a break.
Where is that money going to remate-
rialize from? I am not sure we are
going to appropriate millions of addi-
tional dollars.
We have had debates before, but if
there has ever been one that the Amer-
ican public has a right to be frustrated
with in terms of the shutdown—histori-
cally, the longest shutdown ever—it is
this one. The President says he wants
money for a border wall—a border wall
that he promised the American people
was going to be paid for by Mexico, a
border wall for which he says that be-
fore he will reopen government, give
him $5 billion. I think it is up to al-
most $5.9 billion. There are some argu-
ments that now it is up to $7 billion or
$8 billion.
The truth is—and let me be clear—if
the President and his White House al-
lies are listening, this Senator is will-
ing to look at any reasonable invest-
ment in additional border security, but
it ought to be done in a way in which
we are not holding these hundreds of
thousands of families and—literally,
indirectly—millions of Americans hos-
tage. Rule No. 101 of hostage taking is
you don’t not negotiate with the hos-
tage taker. You don’t reward a bully.
As I think some of my colleagues on
the other side have at least acknowl-
edged privately, if we allow this tactic
to work today, it will be reused in
April when we have the debt ceiling,
and it will be reused at the end of the
fiscal year when the next year’s appro-
priations are due.
Again, I hope the people of good will
will also try to see if we can commit to
putting enough of a poison pill in place
so that this tactic can never, ever be
used again by any Congress or any
President without inflicting some dam-
age, frankly, on the legislative branch
and on the office of the White House.
That is part of the remarkable thing.
Our offices—and I say this to the good
folks who work for us in Congress—are
not feeling any of the pain. The White
House staff is not feeling any of the
pain.
I do wonder, as the President starts
to selectively decide based on one’s
ability to lobby and promote, who is
going to come back and what will get
reopened. Frankly, I am more than a
little disappointed, while it is impor-
tant that mortgages get processed,
that he has decided to bring back cer-
tain folks to process mortgages and
certain folks in the Department of Ag-
riculture to process farmers’ loans and
that they have, suddenly, mysteri-
ously, found some money in the State
Department to reopen part of the State
Department. I would love to see that
same priority for the folks who process
food stamps. I wonder what kind of
Federal buildings we will go into where
the toilets haven’t been cleaned and
the trash hasn’t been taken out and the
food services haven’t been provided.
I say to the White House that we will
negotiate, that we will work through
this process. Some of us have even
said—and I know the Chair has been
part of this effort—that we will put it
through regular order. We will consider
his proposal in a reasonable way, but
let’s do it with the government open
and with people getting paid.
I thank my friend Senator KAINE
from Virginia. I know and acknowl-
edge, as somebody who actually lives
only 20 minutes away in Virginia, that
it is a little bit easier for me than
being a Senator from Alaska or a Sen-
ator from a host of other places around
the country, but I think it is proper
and right that we are here today, and I
will be back this coming week to con-
tinue to raise this point. When we
heard from some Federal workers that
Congress was taking a break for an-
other 10 days when they were supposed
to reach another pay period but that
they were going to make it goose eggs
and when they have the beginning of
February looming when their rents and
mortgages and tuition bills will be due,
I thought it was appropriate. I thank
him for forcing us to be back here to
continue to raise these issues.
The last point I want to make is that
I think we owe a huge debt to our Fed-
eral workers—the TSA, the air traffic
controllers, the Coast Guard, and, for
that matter, the folks who process food
stamps and the lady we saw who was
supposed to investigate chemical spills
who is desperate to get to Houston
where there was a spill 10 days ago, but
they still haven’t been able to inves-
tigate. Without pay, whether you are
furloughed or, in many cases, are being
asked to work overtime without pay,
they are still showing up. They are
still being asked to commute to work—
some from a distance—as has been
mentioned by the Presiding Officer. If
you put a bill on a credit card that has
your name on it, your credit rating is
at risk. Whether you are a prison guard
and have to commute an hour and a
half in your car and may not have
money for gas, you are still finding a
way to show up for work.
As somebody who worked longer in
the private sector than I have in the
public sector, I wonder how many folks
who work in the private sector—if you
work for Facebook or Google or if you
work for Ford or Northrop Grumman—
would continue to show up week after
week after week without pay or how
many folks in the private sector would
show up and work overtime without
pay and still perform.
In a moment in which I was looking
straight at the press pool that was with
me yesterday at the Arlington food
bank, I asked all of the press folks—
when the cameras were off—how many
of them would show up tomorrow if
they had gone 4 or 5 weeks—with no
end in sight—without any payment.
The press was supposed to cover this,
but there was not a single reporter or
camera person who didn’t at least ac-
knowledge to me—and I wish we had
had it all on tape—that, no, they
wouldn’t be showing up to their jobs.
For those of us who are policymakers
or who are, candidly, visitors in the
gallery, sometimes it is easy—and
there have been politicians who have
made careers out of this—to trash Fed-
eral employees. I think it is wrong. I
think it is disgraceful. I think now,
more than ever, we owe them a debt of
gratitude. I know there are at least re-
ports of people at airports and others
who have said thank you or who have
tried to slip somebody food or some-
thing else. The remarkable thing is, be-
cause of our rules that in conventional
times are appropriate, we can’t even, in
many cases, give additional compensa-
tion to these Federal workers, but we
can give them a personal thanks.
My hope would be, in going forward,
for a commitment from folks on both
sides of the aisle to think twice before
we come to the floor of this Senate and
berate and degrade Federal workers. I
would hope, on a going-forward basis,
when we get the government reopened,
we could find a bipartisan way to actu-
ally make sure that what this Senate
passed in terms of a relatively meager
1.9-percent Federal pay raise increase
for this year would override this ad-
ministration’s spiteful Executive order
that tries to take away that pay raise.
If not—maybe not next week but the
next time this happens—I don’t know if
those TSA workers will show up. I
don’t know if those air traffic control-
lers will keep working. I don’t know if
those Coast Guard employees will still
sign up for service in places as remote
as Kodiak, AK.
We have it within our power to end
this. If the President of the United
States will not end this, we have a bill
that is at the desk that 96 of us agreed
to in mid-December when there was
not this crisis. Now, when we hear
these stories—when we hear of this
pain—if the President will not act,
then the Senate must act and put that
legislation on the President’s desk. Let
him choose to not, simply, postulate
but to then make a decision as to
whether he will sign or veto it.
I thank the Presiding Officer. I know
that she and others will be back. Part
of the burden on the majority is of
showing up to that presiding space. We,
as the Virginia Senators, dispropor-
tionately had that opportunity during
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19JA6.011 S19JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S315
January 19, 2019
these kinds of circumstances. Regard-
ing her stories, the Senator from Vir-
ginia’s stories, the Senator from
Maine’s stories, and our other col-
leagues’ as well, I hope that the White
House is listening and that we can find
that common agreement to get this
government reopened and demonstrate
to the workers, the contractors, and
the folks who depend upon the Federal
Government that we value their serv-
ice and that never ever again will they
have to be put through this kind of
tragedy.
I yield the floor.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
H.R. 268. An act making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. PORTMAN:
S. 194. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit taking minors
across State lines in circumvention of laws
requiring the involvement of parents in abor-
tion decisions; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 195. A bill to require the Director of the
Government Publishing Office to establish
and maintain a website accessible to the
public that allows the public to obtain elec-
tronic copies of all congressionally man-
dated reports in one place, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Ms.
HASSAN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. DAINES, Ms. ERNST,
Mr. JONES, and Mr. CARPER):
S. 196. A bill to save taxpayer money and
improve the efficiency and speed of
intragovernmental correspondence, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. PERDUE,
Mr. GARDNER, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. INHOFE, Mr.
BURR, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. COR-
NYN, Mr. COTTON, Mr. YOUNG, Mr.
TOOMEY, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. JOHNSON,
Mr. DAINES, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. ENZI,
Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr.
BRAUN, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. ROMNEY,
and Mr. SCOTT of Florida):
S. Res. 25. A resolution designating the
week of January 20 through January 26, 2019,
as ‘‘National School Choice Week’’; consid-
ered and agreed to.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 25—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK OF JANUARY
20 THROUGH JANUARY 26, 2019,
AS ‘‘NATIONAL SCHOOL CHOICE
WEEK’’
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr. PERDUE,
Mr. GARDNER, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. BURR,
Mr. CRUZ, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. CORNYN, Mr.
COTTON, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. TOOMEY, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. PAUL, Mr. WICKER, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. DAINES, Mr.
CASSIDY, Mr. ENZI, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. BRAUN, Mr.
CRAMER, Mr. ROMNEY, and Mr. SCOTT of
Florida) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 25
Whereas providing a diversity of choices in
K–12 education empowers parents to select
education environments that meet the indi-
vidual needs and strengths of their children;
Whereas high-quality K–12 education envi-
ronments of all varieties are available in the
United States, including traditional public
schools, public charter schools, public mag-
net schools, private schools, online acad-
emies, and home schooling;
Whereas talented teachers and school lead-
ers in each of the education environments
prepare children to achieve their dreams;
Whereas more families than ever before in
the United States actively choose the best
education for their children;
Whereas more public awareness of the
issue of parental choice in education can in-
form additional families of the benefits of
proactively choosing challenging, moti-
vating, and effective education environments
for their children;
Whereas the process by which parents
choose schools for their children is non-
political, nonpartisan, and deserves the ut-
most respect; and
Whereas tens of thousands of events are
planned to celebrate the benefits of edu-
cational choice during the ninth annual Na-
tional School Choice Week, held the week of
January 20 through January 26, 2019: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the week of January 20
through January 26, 2019, as ‘‘National
School Choice Week’’;
(2) congratulates students, parents, teach-
ers, and school leaders from K–12 education
environments of all varieties for their per-
sistence, achievements, dedication, and con-
tributions to society in the United States;
(3) acknowledges the 15th anniversary of
the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program,
which, as of January 2019, has awarded more
than 8,400 scholarships;
(4) encourages all parents, during National
School Choice Week, to learn more about the
education options available to them; and
(5) encourages the people of the United
States to hold appropriate programs, events,
and activities during National School Choice
Week to raise public awareness of the bene-
fits of opportunity in education.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL TUESDAY,
JANUARY 22, 2019, AT 1 P.M.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI). Under the previous order, the
Senate stands adjourned until 1 p.m. on
Tuesday, January 22, 2019.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:24 p.m.,
adjourned until Tuesday, January 22,
2019, at 1 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:38 Jan 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G19JA6.012 S19JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
D63
Saturday, January 19, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S307–S315
Measures Introduced: Three bills and one resolu-
tion were introduced, as follows: S. 194–196, and S.
Res. 25. Page S315
Measures Passed:
National School Choice Week: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 25, designating the week of January 20 through
January 26, 2019, as ‘‘National School Choice
Week’’. Pages S311–12
Measures Considered:
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act: Senate continued consideration of the mo-
tion to proceed to consideration of S. 1, to make im-
provements to certain defense and security assistance
provisions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United States-Jor-
dan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt
the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people.
Page S307
Measures Read the First Time: Page S312
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S315
Adjournment: Senate convened at 11 a.m. and ad-
journed at 12:24 p.m., until 1:00 p.m. on Tuesday,
January 22, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
The House was not in session today. The House
is scheduled to meet at 12 noon on Tuesday, January
22, 2019.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
JANUARY 22, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
648, the ‘‘Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019’’, 5
p.m., H–313 Capitol.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:44 Jan 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D19JA9.REC D19JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D64 January 19, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
1 p.m., Tuesday, January 22
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will resume consideration
of S. 1, Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Tuesday, January 22
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: To be announced.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:44 Jan 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D19JA9.REC D19JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
DIGEST
