Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H291
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019 No. 4
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Ms. KELLY of Illinois).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 9, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable ROBIN L.
KELLY to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
IMPEACHMENT IS NOT DEAD
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, and still I rise. I rise, Madam
Speaker, on behalf of Article II, Sec-
tion 4 of the Constitution.
I rise, Madam Speaker, on behalf of
the more than 40 percent of people in
this country who believe that an unfit
President ought to be impeached. I rise
on behalf of the many people who be-
lieve that somehow the voices of those
who favor impeachment have been
muted.
And I want you to know, Madam
Speaker, and to those who are listen-
ing, I want you to know that there is
at least one person in the Congress of
the United States of America who be-
lieves that an unfit President ought to
be impeached.
I rise on behalf of those, Madam
Speaker, who believe that if President
Barack Obama had behaved the way
the current President has behaved, he
would have been impeached. I rise to
take a stand on behalf of the many who
believe in impeachment of an unfit
President. More than 40 percent of this
country believes it. More than 80 per-
cent, thereabout, of Democrats believe
it.
And I rise on behalf of the many peo-
ple who understand that there is a hu-
manitarian crisis at the border, the
many people who believe that babies
ought not be confined in small, con-
fined places where they have to trip
over each other if they want to tra-
verse from one side of the room to the
other. These are babies. I rise on behalf
of these babies.
And I rise on behalf of the many peo-
ple who believe that if these babies
were White babies, the response would
be vastly different. We know that we
would not tolerate what is happening
in this humanitarian crisis if these
were not people of color. We wouldn’t
tolerate it if they were White. We
ought to treat all babies the same. We
know that this President is a bigot,
and we know that this policy at the
border is rooted in bigotry.
Madam Speaker, I want you to know
that this will not be my last time
standing in the well of the Congress to
deal with this issue. Let others do what
they may; take on the issues that you
choose; but know that I believe an
unfit President ought to be impeached,
and we ought not have a double stand-
ard such that we treat people of color
differently from the way we treat peo-
ple not of color. And that is what is
happening right now at this border.
If they were coming in from the
north and they were White, the reac-
tion wouldn’t be the same. The fervor
would be greater. The demand for jus-
tice would be greater.
We have to take a stand against big-
otry. We cannot allow it to continue to
grow in this country. We are the place
where the President is to be brought
before the bar of justice. Only the
House of Representatives can do it.
And I declare this day that impeach-
ment is not dead.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE 103RD
PENNSYLVANIA FARM SHOW
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, over the weekend, the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania kicked
off one of my favorite events, the Penn-
sylvania Farm Show.
For more than a century, farmers
have gathered each January at the
Pennsylvania Farm Show in Harris-
burg, Pennsylvania. 102 years ago, the
very first Pennsylvania Farm Show
was held on January 23 through Janu-
ary 25, 1917, under the title of the Penn-
sylvania Corn, Fruit, Vegetable, Dairy
Products, and Wool Show.
In 1955, Dr. Milton Eisenhower, Penn
State University president at the time
and the brother of the then-President
of the United States, Dwight D. Eisen-
hower, dubbed the Pennsylvania Farm
Show ‘‘always the greatest show on
Earth.’’
Thanks to the dedication of the
Pennsylvania farmers and farm fami-
lies, tens of thousands of volunteers,
and generations of agribusiness owners
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:07 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.000 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H292 January 9, 2019
and staff from the Pennsylvania De-
partment of Agriculture, the Pennsyl-
vania Farm Show continues to be
among the greatest shows on Earth.
This weeklong event is the largest in-
door agricultural exposition in the Na-
tion, showcasing over 6,000 animals,
featuring nearly 12,000 exhibits and
more than half a million visitors.
Each year, I host a listening session
at the Farm Show, and we covered a
range of topics on Saturday during the
public forum, from raising awareness
about agriculture education to helping
our dairy farmers, and more. We dis-
cussed the passage of the 2018 farm bill,
which will restore certainty for our
farm families, provide nutritional sup-
port and greater opportunity for ulti-
mate food security through employ-
ment for our neighbors in financial
need, renew a pathway to prosperity
for our dairy producers, and build to-
ward a stronger rural economy.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank the
Pennsylvania Secretary of Agriculture,
Russell Redding, for participating in
the listening session, and also my col-
leagues: Congressman DWIGHT EVANS,
Congressman DAN MEUSER, and Con-
gressman LLOYD SMUCKER.
The Pennsylvania Farm Show truly
does bring together so many different
people in the ag community, and it is
an event like no other.
The Farm Show complex houses 24
acres under one roof, spread through-
out 11 buildings, including three are-
nas. There is no admission fee. It is a
great event for the entire family, and
there are numerous educational shows.
The Pennsylvania Farm Show pro-
vides an atmosphere for everyone to
walk through, observe, and educate
themselves about the different areas of
agriculture, the Commonwealth’s larg-
est industry, which brings nearly $6.9
billion annually in agricultural cash
receipts. Almost half a million jobs are
tied to the industry, which positively
impacts all Pennsylvanians.
Madam Speaker, 103 years ago, the
Pennsylvania Farm Show was a 3-day
exhibit. Today, the event is a weeklong
celebration of how the agriculture in-
dustry touches our lives every day.
Proudly, this event draws visitors from
across the country to highlight every-
thing our State has to offer when it
comes to ag. Numerous students par-
ticipate in the event as well from 4–H
clubs to FFA organizations.
The Pennsylvania Farm Show truly
showcases our Nation’s farmers and
landowners. I was thrilled to again
take part in the best agricultural expo
in the country.
Madam Speaker, I want to close with
the words from the prologue to the
100th anniversary book that is pub-
lished by the Farm Show Foundation,
with the Farm Show being dedicated to
the farmers who feed us, the Penn
State extension staff that lead us, and
the consumers that need us.
f
OPEN OUR GOVERNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. CARBAJAL) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CARBAJAL. Madam Speaker,
this week, I visited the Customs and
Border Protection facilities where 8-
year-old Felipe Gomez Alonso was held
shortly before he fell sick and trag-
ically died on Christmas Eve. This was
just 3 weeks after 7-year-old Jakelyn
Caal died in custody nearby.
I went to Alamogordo because I
wanted to hear directly from CBP
agents why these two children died and
what changes are being made to ensure
that not one more child dies while in
United States custody.
CBP agents told us that they needed
more personnel, more technological
support, better coordination between
agencies, and improvements to facili-
ties to accommodate the higher per-
centage of children and families seek-
ing asylum.
One checkpoint I visited didn’t have
a shower for migrants. They were
transported an hour each way every 2
days for a shower. The other facility
didn’t even have potable water.
The Border Patrol agents were also
understandably frustrated that their
online database did not synchronize
with DHS systems, creating even more
confusion when migrants were being
moved or processed. Not once did the
agents mention building a wall.
What I confirmed was that this Presi-
dent purposefully created this humani-
tarian crisis at the border for political
reasons by taking the following ac-
tions:
Trump cut the Central American Mi-
nors refugee program, which had al-
lowed migrants from Central America
to apply for humanitarian relief while
in their home countries instead of trav-
eling to our border, forcing them to
make a dangerous journey with their
children to escape life-threatening vio-
lence in their countries.
He then separated families at the
border, taking toddlers from the arms
of parents and losing track of people’s
children in the process, a stain on the
history of our great Nation.
And he blocked asylum-seekers from
their legal right to present themselves
for screenings through metering at the
ports or denying all asylum claims,
creating huge backlogs at the legal
ports of entry with squalid conditions
and pushing more migrants to attempt
to cross the border between ports of
entry out of desperation.
This is a real humanitarian crisis
that is unfolding because of the Presi-
dent’s obsession with an ineffective
wall that Mexico was supposedly going
to pay for rather than listening to the
actual needs of our CBP officers.
The President continues to repeat
the lie, as he did last night again, that
America faces a crisis in the number of
border crossings from Mexico. Surpris-
ingly, there was not one migrant
housed at the two CBP facilities I vis-
ited this week.
The reality is that overall border
crossings are on the decline. There has
been an 80 percent reduction in the
number of border crossings since the
year 2000.
Trump created and welcomed this
shutdown, telling the public that he is
proud to shut down the government
and that he ‘‘will take the mantle of
shutting it down.’’ The President
should, instead, join Congress and im-
mediately sign bipartisan legislation
that previously passed both the House
and the Senate to reopen the govern-
ment.
More than 800,000 Federal workers
aren’t sure of when their next pay-
check is coming, airport security and
safety is suffering, and the affordable
housing programs for our homeless vet-
erans are quickly running out of fund-
ing on the central coast that I rep-
resent and across the Nation. I urge the
President to do the right thing so that
we can get to work for the American
people.
Mr. President, open our government
up.
f
CONGRATULATING CLEMSON TI-
GERS ON WINNING 2019 NA-
TIONAL FOOTBALL CHAMPION-
SHIP
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
South Carolina (Mr. DUNCAN) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. DUNCAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today because it is a great day, a great
week, and a great year to be a Clemson
Tiger.
The Third District of South Carolina,
which I represent, is home to the
Clemson Tigers, who were victorious in
their performance against the Alabama
Crimson Tide on Monday to claim their
third college football national cham-
pionship, resulting in a perfect season,
the first 15-win season in the modern
era of Division I football.
Coach Dabo Swinney led this historic
team to not only victory, but a domi-
nating performance to truly establish
Clemson as the best college football
team in the entire country. They left
no room for doubt. It was an amazing
performance for everyone, from quar-
terback Trevor Lawrence—and my
friend from Georgia, BARRY
LOUDERMILK, will talk about Trevor
shortly, the first true freshman to
start and win a national championship
in 33 years—to seniors like Christian
Wilkins and walk-on wide receiver
Hunter Renfrow.
b 1015
The entire team and coaching staff
showed poise, control, and leadership
on and off the field the entire night.
Coach Brent Venables, the defensive
coordinator, prepared the Clemson de-
fense well. Alabama was in the red zone
three times, on three different occa-
sions, but came away with zero points
due to the great Tiger defense standing
strong. Great work, Coach Venables,
and a great job, Clemson defense.
The Tide threw two interceptions in
the first half, which Clemson leveraged
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:07 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.002 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H293
January 9, 2019
to turn into points for the Tigers, es-
tablishing more dominance in the
game.
The Clemson offense scored an in-
credible 44 points over Alabama’s 16; 31
of those points were unanswered, to the
shock of many in the college football
world, but not a shock to the Tiger na-
tion. We know what this Dabo
Swinney-coached team was capable of.
At the end of the night, Clemson’s
near-perfect game was too much for
Alabama. The performance was truly
remarkable to see, as the whole Nation
stopped to watch the two top programs
in college football duke it out and
leave their hearts on the field.
The Clemson senior class is one to be
remembered; four straight ACC cham-
pionships, two national championships,
and 55 wins over the last 4 years.
Madam Speaker, to say I am a proud
alumnus and former walk-on Clemson
football player would be an understate-
ment.
Above all else, one of the things I am
most impressed with is Coach Dabo
Swinney’s leadership and character. He
is truly a bright light in the realm of
college football. Like Dabo has said
many times: ‘‘Let the light that shines
in you be brighter than the light that
shines on you.’’
Of course, Dabo cares about playing
amazing football. He has proven this
over and over again in a fantastic 10
years as the head coach. He is now one
of two active college football coaches
with a national championship under
the belt, right along with Alabama’s
Nick Saban.
But I know Dabo cares about some-
thing more, something bigger and more
important than football. He cares
about the hearts and souls of his play-
ers. He cares about their character,
their leadership skills, and their aspi-
rations well after they leave the field.
He cares about the types of men
these players will become as friends,
brothers, sons, future husbands, and fa-
thers. He invests in them to train them
as both elite athletes and elite people.
There is only one reason for this type
of compassion. He strives to mirror
Jesus Christ’s unconditional love for us
every day as a leader, a coach, a hus-
band, a father, and a friend. And as he
said after the game: ‘‘Only God can do
this.’’ How true this is in all areas of
our lives.
Coach Swinney never misses an op-
portunity to speak the truth on the
platform God has given him to pro-
claim the amazing, Christlike love that
is bestowed upon all of us. You can tell
he always wants to be that type of ex-
ample.
I believe this is what makes Clemson
so special, a leader who prays with his
staff and his players; a leader who
shows Christlike love to everyone that
he meets; a leader who prioritizes char-
acter over everything else; a leader
who cares about you as a person, not
just a football player. We can learn a
lot from Dabo.
Thanks, Coach, for being the man
that you are.
Hats off to Alabama who always has
a storied and successful program. The
competition on Monday night captured
the entire Nation’s attention through
that battle between two amazing foot-
ball programs. It was a great game, and
Coach Nick Saban and his Alabama
team are remarkable. This team was
remarkable.
But, hey, in a college sporting event,
somebody has got to lose, and I am
glad my Clemson Tigers were able to
win on Monday night.
Clemson’s success wasn’t built over-
night. This was built by years of focus,
work, and grind, paid for with blood,
sweat, and tears on the field, in the
weight room, in the film room, and ev-
erywhere in between. Nothing great
ever comes easy.
So, Madam Speaker, as a former
player, a proud Clemson graduate, a
lifetime Tiger, I am filled with pride to
see where this Clemson program is
today, how it has elevated the univer-
sity and the entire State.
People in this Chamber and on Cap-
itol Hill, Members of Congress, Capitol
Hill police, the staff, they may not
know my name, but they know who the
Clemson fan is amongst them.
Many of my Alabama colleagues, like
MO BROOKS, were texting me during the
game. I can’t reveal what those texts
said, but I appreciate the time.
Clemson is a special place with proud
alumni all over the world. There is
something in the hills where the Blue
Ridge yawns its greatness, and the
football team showed this greatness
Monday night.
I am immensely proud of Coach
Swinney, the players, and the adminis-
tration, and I will always be all in.
Go Tigers, the college football na-
tional champions. Congratulations
once again.
f
AMTRAK CLOSURE IN RIVERSIDE,
CALIFORNIA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) for 5 minutes.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today because nearly 500 Amtrak work-
ers in Riverside are being forced to up-
root their lives or lose everything they
worked so hard for, a good, stable
union job that pays them well and
gives them benefits.
This nightmare scenario is born out
of a sudden decision by Amtrak to
shutter its call center in Riverside in
what amounts to a union-busting ma-
neuver to outsource jobs and replace
these employees with contractors for
lower pay.
Today, I want the Amtrak CEO to
hear, not from me, but from Theresa
Kolaras, an Amtrak employee in River-
side, and U.S. Army veteran, who will
be losing her job on January 18 if Am-
trak moves forward with this call cen-
ter closure. And here is what Theresa
had to say:
Growing up, it was my dream to serve my
country. That’s why I joined the JROTC pro-
gram in high school. And after 9/11, I enlisted
with the U.S. Army with hopes of making a
difference and happy to have a career. My
job wasn’t glamorous. I was a Unit Support
Specialist, MOS 92 Yankee. But I was proud
to be serving during a difficult time for our
country.
Unfortunately, just as my platoon was
readying to deploy, I suffered successive
fractures in my foot that wouldn’t heal. I
was honorably discharged due to the injury
and, just like that, my dreams were cut
short. At the time, nothing saddened me
more than having to watch my friends de-
ploy without me.
Saddled with my foot that wouldn’t heal, I
now had to figure out what to do with my
life. Jobs were hard to find due to having to
choose ones that kept me off my feet so
much. I found many odd jobs here and there
and, within a few years, I finally started a
family and continued my education.
In 2014, I was ecstatic to find out I was
hired with Amtrak, as I come from a railroad
family, and was proud to continue that tra-
dition. Being able to work at our call center
in Riverside was a blessing for my family
and me.
Amtrak’s reputation for its passengers and
its employees gave me hope for a brighter fu-
ture. Living in California is nearly impos-
sible, with its high cost of living, especially
being a single mother of two boys.
I was able to take care of my kids on the
great benefits and wages at Amtrak. My
boys love the train and enjoy our many trips
we were able to take.
Now, on November 14, I got a sudden awak-
ening as I got notice that Amtrak would be
closing our call center in Riverside.
Amtrak reassured us employees our jobs
were secure. As months went by, Amtrak
started closing stations, putting employees
out of work, and many of us in Riverside
started to worry about our jobs.
Now that feeling of worry is a reality, and
we’re left wondering why Amtrak has been
so dishonest.
Amtrak sent out a letter to us stating that
they are not laying us off, but we are able to
go to its Philadelphia call center.
Now, I count myself among the great ma-
jority that just can’t pick up on short notice
and leave. I have small children and share
custody, and I can’t legally move my kids
out of state.
I honestly have no idea where my children
and I will go. We have a month to figure out
where to live, as I can’t pay rent without a
job, along with this injury that I still deal
with every day.
I am one of the many employees who are at
a hardship, and a few days away from closing
we still don’t have any real answers or hope
that we will at least have a severance pack-
age.
Amtrak has been quiet, and I am still in
disbelief that this was once a company that
was known for its employee and customer
loyalty. Many of us loved our jobs because
we were proud of the railroad, proud to wear
the name, and proud to help our customers
plan their trips.
Now, at work these last few days, I see peo-
ple with despair in their faces and loss of
hope in their eyes.
I still have hope that Amtrak will wake up
and realize that the direction they are going
is hurting its customers and its employees,
which are their biggest fans. This decision is
both ethically and morally wrong.
I would like to thank Theresa for al-
lowing me to read her powerful state-
ment to Amtrak’s CEO.
As of today, 39 of my colleagues from
both sides of the aisle, and I, as well as
Senator FEINSTEIN and Senator HARRIS,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:07 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.005 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H294 January 9, 2019
have joined the Amtrak workers in this
fight. We will do everything we can do
to fight this closure until the bitter
end.
f
PRESIDENT TRUMP’S IMMIGRA-
TION LETTER TO CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. BROOKS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Madam
Speaker, on January 4, 2019, President
Trump sent Congress a letter about
America’s border crisis. That letter
states, in part: ‘‘It is the sovereign
right of every nation to establish an
immigration program in its national
interest, lawfully admitting those who
have followed the rules, while denying
entry to those who break the rules or
fail to meet the requirements estab-
lished in law.
‘‘A nation that fails to control its
borders cannot fulfill its most basic ob-
ligations to its citizens, physical safe-
ty, economic security, essential public
services, and the uniform protection of
our laws. . . . The southern border is a
very dangerous place; in fact, Border
Patrol agents routinely encounter
some of the most dangerous criminals,
cartels, and traffickers anywhere in
the world.
‘‘Effective border security must dra-
matically reduce the entry of illegal
immigrants, criminals, and drugs; it
must keep out terrorists, public safety
threats, and those otherwise inadmis-
sible under U.S. law; and it must en-
sure that those who do enter without
legal permission can be promptly and
safely returned home . . . current fund-
ing levels, resources, and authorities
are woefully inadequate to meet the
scope of the problem. We are no longer
in a status quo situation at the south-
ern border, but in a crisis situation.
Status quo funding is not enough.
‘‘In fiscal year 2018, 17,000 adults at
the border with existing criminal
records were arrested by Customs and
Border Protection and border agents.
‘‘In FY 2017 and FY 2018, ICE officers
arrested approximately 235,000 aliens
on various criminal charges or convic-
tions within the interior of the United
States, including roughly 100,000 for as-
sault, 30,000 for sex crimes, and 4,000 for
homicides.’’
For emphasis, over the past 2 years,
illegal aliens have averaged 50,000 phys-
ical assaults, 15,000 sex crimes, and
2,000 killings per year, all in America.
Returning to President Trump’s let-
ter: ‘‘300 Americans are killed every
week from heroin, 90 percent of which
floods across our southern border.’’
Stated differently, our porous south-
ern border and illegal aliens contribute
to the deaths of another 15,000 Ameri-
cans per year from just one drug, her-
oin. According to the Centers for Dis-
ease Control, there are another 55,000
dead Americans from overdoses from
other poisonous drugs, many of which,
like heroin, steal across our porous
southern border.
President Trump continues in his let-
ter:
‘‘Illegal immigration is not progres-
sive. By every measure it is unfair, un-
just, uncompassionate, and cruel.
Many people are killed. It hurts both
those who make the journey and so
many communities bearing the cost in
lives, safety, and dollars. . . . Abso-
lutely critical to border security and
national security is a wall or a phys-
ical barrier that prevents entry in the
first place. Members of both parties—
including then-Senators Obama and
Clinton, current Senator SCHUMER, and
many other Members of the House and
Senate—all voted for a hard physical
barrier. Walls work. That’s why rich,
powerful, and successful people build
them around their homes. All Ameri-
cans deserve the same protection. In
Israel, it is 99 percent effective.’’
Madam Speaker, open borders advo-
cates forced Washington to either shut
down the government or do nothing,
nothing to prevent the deaths of thou-
sands of Americans each year that re-
sult from our porous southern border
and illegal alien criminal activity.
This is a bad choice.
To the contrary, we should both end
the government shutdown and secure
our borders by building a wall and
changing our immigration laws to pro-
tect the lives of American men,
women, and children.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD President Trump’s letter to
Congress.
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, January 4, 2019.
DEAR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS: Congratula-
tions to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and her en-
tire team, on her election to be Speaker of
the House. I look forward to working to-
gether on our shared priorities for the Amer-
ican People, including rebuilding our infra-
structure, reforming unfair trade deals, and
reducing the price of prescription drugs. Our
recent bipartisan success on numerous legis-
lative accomplishments such as Criminal
Justice Reform, opioid legislation, and the
Farm Bill, underscores the extraordinary
achievements that are possible when we rise
above party politics to advance the good of
the Nation as a whole.
As we begin this new Congress, our first
task should be to reopen the Government
and to deliver on our highest duty as elected
officials: the security of the Nation and its
borders.
It is the sovereign right of every nation to
establish an immigration program in its na-
tional interest—lawfully admitting those
who have followed the rules, while denying
entry to those who break the rules or fail to
meet the requirements established in law.
A nation that fails to control its borders
cannot fulfill its most basic obligations to
its citizens—physical safety, economic secu-
rity, essential public services, and the uni-
form protection of our laws.
I was grateful for the opportunity to meet
with Congressional leadership at the White
House this Wednesday to discuss the border
security crisis, and the need for a govern-
ment funding bill that secures the border
and keeps Americans safe.
During the meeting, there was debate over
the nature and extent of this crisis and its
impact on Americans. It had been my hope
that Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen
Nielsen would have the opportunity to de-
liver a presentation discussing the facts
about the depth and severity of the humani-
tarian crisis and the security crisis that is
now unfolding at the Southern Border.
However, some of those present did not
want to hear the presentation at the time,
and so I have instead decided to make the
presentation available to all Members of
Congress. I encourage you to review it care-
fully, to share it with your staff, and to dis-
cuss it with other lawmakers. In crafting a
Homeland Security bill, it is essential that
we make decisions based upon the facts on
the ground—not ideology and rhetoric—and
that we listen to the law enforcement per-
sonnel on the front lines. The Southern Bor-
der is a very dangerous place—in fact, Border
Patrol agents routinely encounter some of
the most dangerous criminals, cartels, and
traffickers anywhere in the world.
Effective border security must dramati-
cally reduce the entry of illegal immigrants,
criminals, and drugs; it must keep out ter-
rorists, public safety threats, and those oth-
erwise inadmissible under U.S. law; and it
must ensure that those who do enter without
legal permission can be promptly and safely
returned home.
As the enclosed presentation makes clear,
current funding levels, resources, and au-
thorities are woefully inadequate to meet
the scope of the problem. We are no longer in
a status quo situation at the Southern Bor-
der but in a crisis situation. Status quo fund-
ing is not enough.
In fiscal year (FY) 2018, 17,000 adults at the
border with existing criminal records were
arrested by Customs and Border Protection
(CBP) and border agents.
In FY2017 and FY2018, ICE officers arrested
approximately 235,000 aliens on various
criminal charges or convictions within the
interior of the United States—including
roughly 100,000 for assault, 30,000 for sex
crimes, and 4,000 for homicides.
We are now averaging 60,000 illegal and in-
admissible aliens a month on our Southern
Border.
Last month alone, more than 20,000 minors
were smuggled into the United States.
The immigration court backlog is nearly
800,000 cases.
There has been a 2,000 percent increase in
asylum claims over the last five years, with
the largest growth coming from Central
America—while around 9 in 10 claims from
Central American migrants are ultimately
rejected by the immigration courts, the ap-
plicant has long since been released into the
interior of the United States.
In FY2017, roughly 135,000 illegal and inad-
missible family units arrived from Central
America. Of those, less than 2 percent have
been successfully removed from the country
due to a shortage of resources and glaring
loopholes in our federal laws.
So far in FY2019, we have seen a 280 per-
cent increase in family units from FY2018.
300 Americans are killed every week from
heroin—90 percent of which floods across our
Southern Border.
Illegal immigration is a humanitarian cri-
sis: 1 in 3 migrant women is sexually as-
saulted on the journey northward to the U.S.
border; 50 illegal migrants a day are referred
for emergency medical care; and CBP rescues
4,300 people a year who are in danger and dis-
tress.
Illegal immigration is NOT progressive—
by every measure, it is unfair, unjust,
uncompassionate, and cruel. Many people are
killed. It hurts both those who make the
journey and so many communities bearing
the cost in lives, safety, and dollars.
Senator Chuck Schumer once said: ‘‘Illegal
immigration is wrong, plain and simple.
Until the American people are convinced
that we will stop future flows of illegal im-
migration, we will make no progress on deal-
ing with the millions of illegal immigrants
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:07 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.006 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H295
January 9, 2019
who are here now, and on rationalizing our
system of legal immigration. That’s plain
and simple and unavoidable.’’
Absolutely critical to border security and
national security is a wall or a physical bar-
rier that prevents entry in the first place.
Members of both parties—including then
Senators Obama and Clinton, current Sen-
ator Schumer, and many other members of
the House and Senate—all voted for a hard,
physical barrier. Walls work. That’s why
rich, powerful, and successful people build
them around their homes. All Americans de-
serve the same protection. In Israel, it is 99
percent effective.
We must also close the legal gaps in Amer-
ica’s defenses. Loopholes in federal law that
prevent removals provide a magnet for ille-
gal entry, and a lucrative business model for
vicious coyotes, while overwhelming the U.S.
immigration system. The worst loopholes
incentivize the smuggling of minors. Under
these legal loopholes, if an illegal minor, or
those traveling with a minor, merely set foot
on United States soil, they cannot be suc-
cessfully returned home. This explains the
profound increases in the arrival of minors
travelling both alone and with adults on the
dangerous journey to our border.
To protect these children from abuse, and
stop this illegal flow, we must close these
loopholes. This is an urgent humanitarian
necessity. Children are terribly used by
criminals and coyotes to gain access to our
country—they are the biggest victims of all.
The most pressing legal changes are as fol-
lows:
Terminate the Flores Settlement Agree-
ment—which is preventing families from
being held together through removal; and
Amend the Trafficking Victims Protection
Reauthorization Act (TVPRA), to allow for
the safe and humane return of illegally-
smuggled minors back to their families in
their home countries.
Americans have endured decades of broken
promises on illegal immigration. Now, is the
time for both parties to rise above the par-
tisan discord, to set aside political conven-
ience, and to put the national interest first.
Now is the time—this is the moment—to fi-
nally secure the border and create the lawful
and safe immigration system Americans, and
those wanting to become Americans, de-
serve.
Sincerely,
DONALD J. TRUMP.
f
b 1030
TRUMP’S GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. CLARKE) for 5 minutes.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to discuss the im-
pact of Donald Trump’s government
shutdown.
Today marks the 19th day that the
United States has been in a partial
government shutdown. How did we get
here?
Let’s be clear: This government shut-
down is not about a border wall.
Our country is in the midst of a gov-
ernment shutdown because a man who
has fashioned himself after a banana
republic dictator, a con man engaging
in the proverbial bait and switch, has
decided to pickpocket the American
people for an immoral border wall pol-
icy that the American people do not
support.
This billionaire bully is intentionally
imposing pain, anguish, and anxiety on
800,000 Federal workers, including over
14,000 New Yorkers, holding them and
their families hostage in order to ex-
tort billions of dollars from the Amer-
ican taxpayer to satisfy a broken
promise to his supporters that Mexico
would pay for his wall. Meanwhile, real
lives are at stake and hang in the bal-
ance.
On Friday, our Federal workers will
face a clear uncertainty without a pay-
check. Families are struggling to pay
for their basic needs, their mortgages
and rent, groceries, life-sustaining
medications, and more due to this
cruel, vindictive, and senseless shut-
down.
Due to this absurd, mean-spirited
government shutdown, many hard-
working Americans will not receive
their tax refunds in a timely manner,
because the Department of the Treas-
ury and IRS are closed.
Due to this irrational government
shutdown, many families that rely on
SNAP will struggle to put food on their
tables.
Due to this malicious government
shutdown, Federal contractors and
their employees may never recover
from the loss of their investments in
doing the business of service to our Na-
tion, their employees facing an eco-
nomic crisis that could lead to unem-
ployment, all because Donald Trump is
running for reelection and he has no re-
gard for the very people that he swore
to protect and defend.
Our national parks and monuments
are consumed by trash.
Our Transportation Safety Adminis-
tration is stretched, with personnel on
the job unable to afford their meals or
the cost of travel to our Nation’s air-
ports to report for duty.
This reckless shutdown has placed us
all in harm’s way by impeding the mis-
sion of the EPA, lacking the requisite
personnel to complete critical activi-
ties that protect the public health and
environment.
Due to this pointless government
shutdown, thousands of hardworking
Americans all over this country resid-
ing in government-funded or subsidized
properties risk eviction from their
homes.
On our first day in the 116th Con-
gress, House Democrats immediately
got to work by introducing and passing
a complete funding package to reopen
the government for the people. House
Democrats passed legislation that hon-
ors our responsibility to keep Ameri-
cans safe while securing our borders.
Let’s be clear: Democrats want sen-
sible border security. Democrats want
commonsense immigration reform.
So why is the United States in a gov-
ernment shutdown?
We can all recall that, while on the
campaign trail, the current occupant of
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue promised the
American people that a border wall is
the solution for border security and
that Mexico would pay for the wall.
However, the American people can see
the immorality of this and did not like
his policy of family separation at the
border, and the Mexican President said,
no, he would not pay for the wall.
Now, to feed his obsession to keep his
ill-advised campaign promise, he is
threatening to keep the government
shut down for years.
Agent 45 is happy to keep hard-
working Federal workers from being
paid for years over an ineffective, im-
moral, and expensive border wall.
Trump’s government shutdown keeps
420,000 Federal employees, including
FBI agents, Customs and Border Pro-
tection agents, and Forest Service fire-
fighters, working without pay.
Trump’s government shutdown
caused 400,000 Federal employees from
the Department of Transportation, the
Department of Commerce, and NASA
to be furloughed, plunging their fami-
lies into complete uncertainty.
Instead of funding a $5 billion wall,
let’s talk about how we can invest in
real priorities for the people.
With $30.5 million, case management
for immigrant families could expand to
25,000 families annually.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
RECOGNIZING TREVOR LAWRENCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. LOUDERMILK) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Madam Speaker,
on any given morning, except for Sun-
days, the Chick-fil-A in my hometown
of Cartersville, Georgia, is buzzing with
activity. In the past few years, among
its host of customers, a young man
could often be found at a corner table,
watching videos of high school football
games on his laptop.
That young man, Trevor Lawrence,
was the quarterback for the
Cartersville High School football team
who led the Purple Hurricanes to two
State championships and, along the
way, broke Georgia State high school
records for passing yards and touch-
downs.
Today, that young man, who often
retreated to Chick-fil-A to prepare for
Friday night football, has been cata-
pulted from a hometown star to a na-
tional football phenomenon.
Monday night, the Nation witnessed
this young man, who just a year ago
was playing high school football at
Weinman Stadium in Cartersville,
Georgia, lead the Clemson Tigers to a
national championship.
The strength of Trevor Lawrence
isn’t just his playing ability, although
he is truly talented; neither is it his
size, strength, or his athleticism.
Trevor’s strength is his faith and
strong character, which has been
shaped by his family and a community
that still promotes the values of integ-
rity, community service, patriotism,
and good morals.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:07 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.004 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H296 January 9, 2019
Quick to give God the glory and
praise to his teammates, Trevor’s hu-
mility speaks louder than his long list
of athletic accomplishments. In a re-
cent interview, Trevor said: ‘‘Football
is important to me, obviously, but it is
not . . . the biggest thing in my life. I
would say my faith is.’’
From billboards along Joe Frank
Harris Parkway, to the marquis out-
side the Cartersville Chick-fil-A, our
community is expressing pride in their
hometown football star, not only for
what he has accomplished, but more so
for who he is.
On behalf of the people of Georgia’s
11th Congressional District, I congratu-
late Trevor Lawrence on his excep-
tional performance in the NCAA Na-
tional Championship game, and I com-
mend his parents for instilling in him a
strong set of values and the encourage-
ment and motivation to work hard to
achieve success.
I applaud the Cartersville High
School coach, Joey King, for recog-
nizing Trevor’s potential and helping
to develop this champion of the grid-
iron.
I also congratulate the Clemson Ti-
gers and head coach Dabo Swinney on
an exceptional season and a well-
earned national championship.
f
STANDING IN SOLIDARITY WITH
AMERICA’S TEACHERS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arizona (Mr. GALLEGO) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GALLEGO. Madam Speaker, I
rise in support of millions of our Na-
tion’s teachers who fight for our chil-
dren’s future every single day.
Last year, tens of thousands of edu-
cators from Arizona helped lead the
Nation, walking out of their class-
rooms to protest cuts to schools and
funding. They told me about outdated
textbooks, overcrowded classrooms,
and school supplies so limited that kids
were taking tests with crayons.
They succeeded in securing much-
needed pay raises for teachers. But the
Arizona Legislature refused to provide
sufficient money for support staff,
classroom supplies, and other resources
they need to effectively do their jobs.
So, today, Arizona teachers and I are
wearing red, because the fight to en-
sure that every child receives a quality
education is not over.
Our students deserve better. They de-
serve fully funded schools with state-
of-the-art classrooms to ensure our
kids have the skills they need to suc-
ceed in a quickly changing world. They
deserve the challenges and opportuni-
ties that come from taking advanced
placement classes that promote aca-
demic achievement and extracurricular
activities to stimulate creativity and a
passion for lifelong learning. They de-
serve teachers, aides, administrative
staff, and bus drivers who are paid a
fair and living wage.
Instead, the State continues to short-
change our children by asking edu-
cators to do more with less.
Madam Speaker, I know firsthand
the importance of properly funding the
public school system. I am a product of
it. I would not have the honor to stand
here today and advocate for teachers
on the floor of the House of Represent-
atives if it wasn’t for the help and ad-
vice and mentorship of one of my own
high school teachers, Mr. Gustafson—
or Mr. G, as I called him—of Evergreen
Park Community High School. He is
just one example of the many pas-
sionate, selfless educators who inspire
students every day.
That is why I stand today, tomorrow,
and every day in solidarity with Amer-
ica’s teachers demanding more re-
sources for educators and the young
people that they have dedicated their
lives to.
Our Nation’s future depends on it.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RUBIN FAMILY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK) for 5
minutes.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize a family and a
school community in Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, that is working to keep
the legacy alive for a young person
taken too soon.
In 1998, Jason Rubin, then a 13-year-
old student at Cecelia Snyder Middle
School in Bensalem, tragically suc-
cumbed to a bacterial infection. Jason
was a popular kid who loved sports and
played on the school’s basketball team.
Shortly after Jason’s passing, his
parents, Richard and Gail, set up a me-
morial fund in his honor. The fund as-
sists our community in various capac-
ities, including through scholarships
for Bensalem High School students.
This year, the family wanted to do
something different and special. Real-
izing Cecelia Snyder’s scoreboard was
outdated, the Rubin family dedicated a
new scoreboard in memory of Jason D.
Rubin, a fitting tribute for their bas-
ketball-loving son. A dedication cere-
mony with the Rubin family present
was held last week.
Madam Speaker, we applaud the serv-
ice of the Rubin family and members of
the Cecelia Snyder school and their
community, and we are all so proud to
see Jason memorialized in such a
meaningful way.
HONORING GRACE GODSHALK
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the life and mem-
ory of a woman who lived a life defined
by service, faith, and compassion.
Grace Godshalk passed away on De-
cember 15 at the age of 81. Born in
Queens, New York, Grace moved to
Bucks County in 1965, settling in Lower
Makefield Township. Grace soon be-
came a beloved member of our commu-
nity and began devoting her time and
her energy to local causes.
Later, in 1977, Grace became the first
woman elected to the Lower Makefield
Township Board of Supervisors. She
served honorably for 30 years, retiring
in 2008, and, during her tenure, devel-
oped a reputation as a staunch sup-
porter of open space initiatives, ac-
tively involved in the preservation of
the Five Mile Woods Nature Preserve
and the Patterson Farm.
Grace never lost her strength or her
composure.
After her son, Bill, passed away in
the terror attacks of 9/11, Grace played
a pivotal role in the dedication of the
Garden of Reflection to memorialize
9/11 victims.
Madam Speaker, our entire commu-
nity sends our love to her daughter,
Jane, and to her grandchildren. Grace
is now reunited with her husband,
James, and her legacy in our commu-
nity will endure forever.
RECOGNIZING JAY SMITH
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize a native of
Bucks County, Pennsylvania, and a
community that has rallied around
him in support.
Jay Smith graduated from Central
Bucks West and was diagnosed with
ALS in 2014. This month, a jazz con-
cert, dubbed ‘‘Jazz for Jay,’’ will be
held to help Jay and his family pay for
medical expenses.
Jay is a writer and an inventor, a
husband to Melissa, and a father to
Loghan and Peyton. Despite his declin-
ing health, he currently serves on the
board of directors of a foundation,
Every 90 Minutes, which serves to pro-
mote research for a cure for ALS.
While he currently lives in Texas, his
ties to Bucks County run deep, and our
community is proud to support him in
this fight.
Madam Speaker, here in Congress, we
must all do our part to ensure that our
medical research community has the
resources needed to fight and find a
cure for ALS.
I would also like to thank those par-
ticipating in the Jazz for Jay ceremony
and activities, and the Smith family
for their advocacy.
f
b 1045
SEAWALL CONSTRUCTION ON
EAST SHORE OF STATEN ISLAND
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ROSE) for 5 minutes.
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to announce my
introduction of a bill authorizing the
Secretary of the Interior to grant an
easement of Federal lands for the con-
struction of a seawall on the east shore
of Staten Island.
This is the first bill I am introducing,
because, since Hurricane Sandy, which
absolutely devastated my district, New
York City, and the region as a whole,
residents in my district have lived in
fear of devastating flooding. They live
in fear of another superstorm. They
live in fear of heavy flooding. And they
live in fear of the rising cost of flood
insurance.
That fear is real for my constituents.
But the question isn’t whether the
storm will hit again; it is when.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:07 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.009 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H297
January 9, 2019
That is why the Army Corps of Engi-
neers, along with Federal, State, and
local agencies, have worked to develop
a plan to protect the lives and liveli-
hoods of Staten Islanders by building a
seawall.
Federal, State, and local funding for
this project already have been secured.
All that remains is for Congress to pass
my bill to allow for this critical con-
struction to begin. I made a promise
when I was sworn in that if something
matters to the folks who live in my
district—my constituents—well, then
it matters to me. That is why I am
here today, and that is why I will fight
to pass this bill.
I commend my predecessor, Congress-
man Dan Donovan, who introduced
similar legislation in the previous Con-
gress, which passed the House on a bi-
partisan basis, demonstrating that,
when we want to, we can unite in order
to enact legislation that saves Amer-
ican lives.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues in Congress to act swiftly on
this legislation so that we can allow
construction to begin as soon as pos-
sible and bring some peace of mind to
families worrying about that next
storm, worrying that they are going to
lose their homes.
In this time when government is shut
down, it is damn time that we show the
people of Staten Island, of South
Brooklyn, of New York City, New York
State, and the American people as a
whole that government can do some-
thing positive.
f
DO WE HAVE A CRISIS ON THE
SOUTHERN BORDER OR NOT?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. SHIMKUS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, first
of all, we all are thinking about those
loyal, hardworking Federal employees
who are caught in the middle of the
challenges that we face here in Wash-
ington. As with other battles, these
employees will be paid for their time
away from the workplace while they
are on furlough.
So what is this all about? Do we have
a crisis on the southern border or not?
I would caution my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to use real numbers.
Are 400,000 illegal immigrants last
year across the southern border too few
or too many?
Are the 500 homicides by illegal im-
migrants in Texas over the past decade
too few or too many?
Maybe the new Homeland Security
Committee could hold a hearing and
vet out all of these numbers. There is a
problem with that: The committee is
not organized yet, so they cannot
meet. I would hope that they would, so
we could put the facts on the table.
I look at the clips of large groups of
illegals trying to rush the border. What
has kept them from illegally entering?
Well, the fence, the wall, the barrier. A
wall system works. Sections of the bor-
der where fencing and walls have been
built have seen a decrease in illegal im-
migration.
San Diego first built its wall in 1992.
Illegal traffic dropped 92 percent over
the past 23 years.
El Paso built their fence in 1993. Ille-
gal traffic dropped 72 percent in 1 year
and 95 percent over 22 years.
Tucson’s wall was built in 2000. Ille-
gal traffic dropped 90 percent over 15
years.
The wall in Yuma was built in 2005.
Illegal traffic dropped 95 percent over 9
years.
Since walls work, they have histori-
cally held bipartisan support. In the
fiscal year 2007, the DHS appropria-
tions bill provided more than $1 billion
for fencing along the southwest border.
It passed 412–6. Speaker PELOSI, Major-
ity Leader HOYER, Majority Whip CLY-
BURN, and Homeland Security Chair-
man THOMPSON were among the ‘‘yes’’
votes.
Former President Barack Obama, in
a Senate floor speech from the Secure
Fence Act in 2006, said: ‘‘It will author-
ize some badly needed funding for bet-
ter fences and better security along our
borders, and that should help stem
some of the tide of illegal immigration
in this country.’’
The Secretary of Homeland Security
under Obama, Janet Napolitano, reiter-
ated: ‘‘You’ve got to have a system.
You’ve got to have a system down
there that includes boots on the
ground, that has to include technology
and fencing and infrastructure as part
of the overall system.’’
It is time that we work together to
compromise to reopen the government
and secure our southern border. We can
do this. I believe in this form of gov-
ernment, and I believe in this institu-
tion. Let’s get to work.
America is an extraordinarily compassionate
nation. We welcome immigrants seeking the
opportunity to build a better life here, as well
as refugees fleeing war, oppression, and pov-
erty around the world. But even as we do this
it is only appropriate that it is done legally.
f
AMERICAN OPTIMISM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GONZALEZ) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam
Speaker, during one of the most divi-
sive times in American history, I rise
today in a moment of American opti-
mism.
In this freshly minted 116th Congress,
the most diverse in our history, I wel-
come all new Members, young and old;
Democrats and Republicans; from the
North, South, East, or West; male or
female; gay or straight; Jew or gentile.
And I ask you to join me in this jour-
ney of optimism.
Today is the beginning of the rest of
our history, the history of the oppor-
tunity we have before us to solve the
Nation’s critical issues that are hap-
pening today, the everyday problems
that our people live with, in our di-
verse land.
Let us never forget who we are and
the greatness we have shown the world.
Let us never forget that this is the
America that freed slaves, granted reli-
gious freedoms, fed the hungry, and
welcomed the stranger; the America
that spread democracy and freedom
around the globe; the America that
freed Europe and defended others from
bullies and foes; the America that gave
the world electricity and light. We put
the first man on the Moon, flew the
first woman across the pond, and cre-
ated the internet and the iPhone and,
yes, Facebook and Twitter, too.
We gave the world baseball and
proudly root for our Olympians who
lead the world in medals. We entertain
the world with Hollywood, MTV, and
American pop, hip-hop, Tejano, coun-
try, rock ‘n’ roll, and jazz music. We
bring smiles and joy to children around
the world through Mickey Mouse and
Minnie Mouse.
We are also the country of the Mayo,
Johns Hopkins, MD Anderson, and
Cleveland clinics.
And all of this is while enjoying the
largest economy in the world.
This is the America the world longs
to be, and this is the America we have
the responsibility to be, the America
the world is still patiently and optimis-
tically waiting and watching to see the
next great thing we do. We are the
America that came together in soli-
darity after 9/11. We are still that
America.
To the young in this country, I prom-
ise you, you are going to be okay.
There is a lot of reason to be opti-
mistic, because I still believe that ev-
eryone serving in this body sincerely
loves this country and, at the end of
the day, rises to the occasion to do
what is right for it.
There is nothing greater than stay-
ing united, conserving our creativity
and work ethic while respecting our
differences. The world is counting on
us.
To you, America, I toast. I toast with
a freshly brewed double espresso from
Starbucks—yes, another American
gem. That, my friends, is what makes
America great. God bless the USA.
f
LONGWORTH-GARNER SPIRIT OF
BIPARTISANSHIP
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. HILL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, first, let me associate myself
with the gentleman from Texas and his
fine remarks about the strengths of
this country and how this country has
led the world in every way and is the
envy of the world. I thank the gen-
tleman from Texas for his inspirational
remarks on this House floor.
Madam Speaker, I look forward, too,
with optimism to the 116th Congress. I
refuse to be pulled down by the vortex
of negativism and profanity that is en-
gulfing social media and cable tele-
vision programming. Instead, I am
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.011 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H298 January 9, 2019
grateful for the opportunity to work to
pursue policies that improve our Na-
tion.
Madam Speaker, I spent my first two
terms in Congress building relation-
ships with my colleagues, in both the
House and the Senate and in both po-
litical parties. I have done this based
on my experiences that I had in the
1980s as a staffer on the Senate Bank-
ing Committee, as well as my 4 years of
service in the executive branch in the
administration of President George
H.W. Bush.
I value political leaders reasoning to-
gether to find common ground to tack-
le our Nation’s policy challenges, large
and small.
In this context, I host periodic, bipar-
tisan dinners. I call these the ‘‘Long-
worth-Garner Dinners,’’ so named for
Nick Longworth from Cincinnati, Ohio,
Speaker of the House from 1925 to his
untimely death in 1931, and his great
friend, Congressman Jack Garner from
Uvalde, Texas, minority leader much of
the time when his friend Nick was
Speaker.
These two men could not have been
more different. Longworth was from a
patrician family who settled in Cin-
cinnati in the early 19th century, and
he was married to Teddy Roosevelt’s
oldest daughter, Alice.
‘‘Cactus Jack’’ Garner was a rough-
and-tumble small-town lawyer from
Uvalde who rose to be a successful
county judge and then became a terrifi-
cally successful Member of the U.S.
House. As Garner put it, ‘‘I was the
heathen, and Nick was the aristocrat.’’
Longworth and Garner came to Con-
gress at the same time in 1902. Both
served with distinction; both rose to
the top of their political parties; and
both were terrific friends.
When Longworth was sworn into
speakership for the last time in April
of 1929, he paid tribute to his friend,
the minority leader and future Speak-
er, by saying: ‘‘The gentleman from
Texas and I entered Congress together
26 years ago. That he is a better man
than I, in the estimation of his con-
stituents, is made clear by the fact
that his service has been continuous,
whereas mine was interrupted by a va-
cation of 2 years, by no means of my
own motion. During all these years,
our friendship has been continuously
abiding, and our affection, esteem, and
respect, the one for the other, is and
has been, I am proud to say, mutual.’’
For his part, on the untimely death
of Longworth in 1931, Garner, who did
become Speaker, said: ‘‘He was an aris-
tocrat; I am a plebeian. Perhaps . . .
our different rearing intensified our in-
terest in each other. I have lost one of
the best friends of a lifetime, the coun-
try a good citizen, and the Congress a
most valued legislator.’’
It was ‘‘Cactus Jack’’ and Nick who
cooked up the tradition in room H–128
of the U.S. Capitol. Each afternoon, no
matter how much fighting took place
on the floor of the U.S. House, they re-
treated to H–128, which they nick-
named the ‘‘Bureau of Education,’’ to
have a drink and ‘‘strike a blow for lib-
erty.’’
Room H–128 went on to even greater
fame, as longtime Speaker Sam Ray-
burn from Texas continued this tradi-
tion that he had witnessed as a young
Member.
The purpose of my Longworth-Garner
Dinners is to get to know each other,
to understand what our goals and ob-
jectives are for our constituents and
how we can work effectively together
on the House Financial Services Com-
mittee.
Madam Speaker, I will continue the
tradition of Longworth and Garner in
the 116th Congress. I look forward to
working hand-in-hand and shoulder-to-
shoulder with my colleagues in both
parties and on both sides of the U.S.
Capitol to move this country forward
and seek a better Nation through our
partnership.
f
END GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. HAALAND) for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. HAALAND. Madam Speaker, I
rise to urge President Trump and Sen-
ate Majority Leader MITCH MCCONNELL
to reopen the Federal Government.
Let’s be clear: the crisis is not along
our Nation’s southern border. The real
crisis is getting people back to work.
I cannot stand by silently while near-
ly 800,000 Federal workers, thousands
of which are in New Mexico, won’t re-
ceive a paycheck, and countless, inno-
cent people suffer because they will not
receive essential services from the Fed-
eral Government.
The government shutdown impacts
the State of New Mexico more than al-
most anywhere in this country. The
government shutdown directly affects
more than 6,000 Federal employees
throughout New Mexico. These dedi-
cated public servants are not getting
paid, but they still need to pay the
rent, put food on the table, and they
still need to make payments on their
car loans and student loans.
Almost 50,000 residents of New Mexi-
co’s First Congressional District de-
pend on SNAP benefits to feed their
families. The government shutdown
means that SNAP benefits are threat-
ened.
As someone who relied on govern-
ment assistance programs when I was
raising my daughter as a single mom, I
have been there, and I know that it is
devastating for these people to worry
about how they are going to pay for
their next meal and take care of their
families.
Our Indian tribes, pueblos, and na-
tions who rely on Federal funding for
aging services and Indian Health Serv-
ices for medical care, are already being
impacted by this shutdown, and the
suffering will grow greater as the shut-
down drags on. If this shutdown con-
tinues, 62 percent of Indian Health
Services will be forced to cease offering
services, and 54 percent will be forced
to lay off essential staff. This is a rec-
ipe for disaster.
On the Navajo Nation in my State,
people have been trapped in their
homes without food, water, and medi-
cine because the government has failed
to fund the Federal maintenance to
plow snow from the roads.
The Department of Agriculture’s
Food Distribution Program on Indian
reservations runs out of funding at the
end of this month. This program pro-
vides nutrition assistance to nearly
90,000 Native Americans.
Madam Speaker, I voted to pass leg-
islation through this House that Demo-
crats have put forward to reopen the
government. What we need now is Sen-
ator MITCH MCCONNELL and President
Trump to show that same kind of lead-
ership and act on these bills, which the
Senate already passed last year, and
reopen our government.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 2 min-
utes a.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker at
noon.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Thank You, O Lord, for giving us an-
other day.
Lord, You are ever present, the
source of all wisdom and self-giving
love. The Sacred Scriptures reveal
Your continued guidance in human af-
fairs. We thank You for the many
blessings granted this Nation through-
out its history.
In these early days of the 116th Con-
gress, we seek Your mercy and rely on
Your revelations to guide and protect
this legislative body. With renewed
standards of ethics and a deeper com-
mitment of accountability, may all
who serve in public office be Your
steady instruments in unifying, pro-
tecting, and guiding the American peo-
ple of this democracy to increasing vir-
tue, greater prosperity, and witness to
goodness for the world.
We thank You, again, for the inspira-
tion of our Nation’s Founders and the
legacy they left us. May the Members
of this assembly and all Americans be
worthy of that legacy.
May all that is done this day be done
for Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H299
January 9, 2019
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) come
forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
SWEARING IN OF DELEGATE
The SPEAKER. Will Ms. PLASKETT
present herself in the well.
All Members will rise and Ms.
PLASKETT will please raise her right
hand.
Ms. PLASKETT appeared at the bar
of the House and took the oath of office
as follows:
Do you solemnly swear that you will sup-
port and defend the Constitution of the
United States against all enemies, foreign
and domestic; that you will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that you take
this obligation freely, without any mental
reservation or purpose of evasion; and that
you will well and faithfully discharge the du-
ties of the office on which you are about to
enter, so help you God.
The SPEAKER. Congratulations.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
HOYER). The Chair will entertain up to
15 requests for 1-minute speeches on
each side of the aisle.
f
HEALTHCARE
(Ms. JOHNSON of Texas asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
healthcare is important, and no one
knows that better than our country’s
nurses. As the first registered nurse
elected to Congress, I know how the Af-
fordable Care Act has improved our
country’s healthcare, especially for the
133 million Americans living with pre-
existing conditions, including 11.5 mil-
lion who live in my home State of
Texas, the most uninsured State in the
Nation.
Today, we are bringing a resolution
to the floor which will empower the
House of Representatives, the people’s
House, to intervene in a lawsuit that
Republicans have brought solely to
throw the American healthcare system
into chaos. I urge my colleagues to
support the Allred resolution and vote
to protect the healthcare of millions of
our fellow Americans.
f
INAUGURATION DAY
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, South Carolinians today will
celebrate the inauguration of Governor
Henry McMaster, Lieutenant Governor
Pamela Evette, and Attorney General
Alan Wilson, along with all of our
other constitutional officers.
After serving 2 years as Governor
succeeding Governor Nikki Haley,
Henry McMaster enters his first full
term. He has dedicated his life to serv-
ing our citizens. Best wishes to Henry,
First Lady Peggy, and their two chil-
dren, Henry, Jr., and Mary Rodgers.
The Governor’s running mate, Pam-
ela Evette, is a successful business
leader to serve as Lieutenant Gov-
ernor. Her husband, David, and chil-
dren, Amanda, Joseph, and Jackson,
will make a positive difference.
Our oldest son, Alan, was sworn in
for a third term today after becoming
the youngest attorney general in the
Nation in 2011. Our family is very
grateful for his and his wife Jennifer’s
success, with our grandchildren, Mi-
chael and Anna Grace.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
IN SUPPORT OF COVERAGE FOR
PREEXISTING CONDITIONS
(Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER. Mr.
Speaker, one in two, the number of
Delawareans living with a preexisting
condition, including cancer survivors
and those with chronic diseases.
Before the Affordable Care Act, hav-
ing a preexisting condition meant your
access to healthcare was in jeopardy.
You could be charged unaffordable pre-
miums with limited benefits or denied
coverage outright. Because of the ACA,
the fear of not being able to find cov-
erage has been replaced with the guar-
antee of lifesaving protections.
To those who want to roll back those
protections, I ask you to think about
the Delawareans caring for a newborn
with congenital heart disease, those
struggling to overcome substance use
disorder, or the many monitoring their
blood sugar up to 10 times a day.
Just 9 years ago, this body rightfully
promised to protect those very people.
I urge my colleagues to stand with me
in defending strong protections for peo-
ple with preexisting conditions and re-
ject efforts to turn back the clock on
millions of Americans and their fami-
lies.
URGING FEDERAL RECOGNITION
OF THE LITTLE SHELL TRIBE OF
CHIPPEWA INDIANS OF MON-
TANA
(Mr. GIANFORTE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to urge this body to provide the
Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians
of Montana with the overdue Federal
recognition they deserve.
The Little Shell Tribe began peti-
tioning the Federal Government for
recognition in the 1930s, several gen-
erations ago. Mr. Speaker, 80 years
later, the resolute Tribe continues
their efforts.
Last year, the Little Shell Tribe of
Chippewa Indians Restoration Act
passed this House unanimously. It was
the first time that a bill providing Fed-
eral recognition of the Little Shell
Tribe passed either the House or the
Senate.
Following passage in the House, how-
ever, this uncontroversial bill hit a
roadblock in the Senate. We take up
their worthy cause again today as I in-
troduce the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I call on this body to
consider and pass this bill again. This
Congress should provide the Little
Shell Tribe with the Federal recogni-
tion it deserves, particularly after
eight decades of dedicated efforts.
f
RISING IN SUPPORT OF
BACKGROUND CHECKS
(Ms. PINGREE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. PINGREE. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise in support of H.R. 8, the Bipartisan
Background Checks Act of 2019, a com-
monsense bill to mandate background
checks before the sale of a firearm.
During my first term in Congress, I
served with my friend and former Con-
gresswoman Gabby Giffords on the
Armed Services Committee. Mr. Speak-
er, 8 years ago this week, during a pub-
lic meeting with her constituents, a
gunman shot her and 18 others, trag-
ically killing 6.
Since that dark day in 2011, mass
shootings have become commonplace,
occurring in our schools, houses of wor-
ship, movie theaters, nightclubs, gro-
cery stores, a newsroom, a concert,
nearly every place imaginable that
should be safe.
Although 97 percent of Americans
support background checks, many
Members of Congress simply pass along
thoughts and prayers in the face of
these tragedies instead of taking ac-
tion.
Enough. The Nation’s gun violence
epidemic must be addressed by the
116th Congress.
I am in awe of Gabby’s resilience and
advocacy for overdue gun safety re-
forms like H.R. 8, which will ensure
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:06 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H09JA9.REC H09JA9
abonner
on
DSKBCJ7HB2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H300 January 9, 2019
that firearms do not end up in the
hands of those who cannot pass a sim-
ple background check.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
this bill.
f
RECOGNIZING OKANOGAN COUNTY
SHERIFF FRANK ROGERS
(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, today,
on National Law Enforcement Appre-
ciation Day, I rise to honor Frank Rog-
ers, who has served the public in his
role as Okanogan County sheriff for the
past 16 years. In his own words, Sheriff
Rogers ‘‘bleeds cop.’’
He spent the past three decades in
the northern part of my district work-
ing to improve his community and pro-
moting camaraderie among different
law enforcement agencies. From solv-
ing burglaries and violent crime cases
to helping evacuate those affected by
devastating wildfires, Frank has been
dedicated to his friends and neighbors.
Also known as Sheriff Batman, he
acted as a superhero for the people of
Okanogan County.
Sheriff Rogers signed off for the last
time on December 31, and I know he is
excited to spend more time with his
wife, Minette, and his family. I urge
my colleagues to join me in congratu-
lating him on a successful career and
wishing him all the best in the future.
f
REOPENING OF SHEA’S SENECA
BUILDING
(Mr. HIGGINS of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Mr.
Speaker, the storied Shea’s Seneca
building on Seneca Street in South
Buffalo reopens to the public after 18
months of extensive renovations made
possible by Federal and State historic
tax credits.
Built in 1929, the former movie the-
ater was the anchor of the once-thriv-
ing Seneca Street business district, and
it will reopen this Thursday. The use of
Federal historic tax credits added more
than $1 million to this historic preser-
vation project.
There is new hope and optimism
about the future of Seneca Street be-
cause of the vision of developer Jake
Schneider and his wise use of the Fed-
eral Historic Tax Credit program that
made the Shea’s Seneca project a re-
ality.
f
CELEBRATING LAW ENFORCEMENT
APPRECIATION DAY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today on Law En-
forcement Appreciation Day to com-
mend law enforcement officers
throughout our Nation who answer the
call to serve their communities. This
day is designated annually on January
9 to show support to our law enforce-
ment leaders in every community, in-
cluding our Capitol Police, who are
with us here each and every day.
Law enforcement officers face in-
creasingly difficult circumstances
while working to serve and protect the
public. It is a dangerous job, and, often,
it is a thankless job. Our officers put
on their uniforms each day knowing
that they can be in harm’s way at any
moment. They answer the call in times
of distress, and they follow the rules
and wear the badge proudly.
Mr. Speaker, we must remember that
our officers are mothers and fathers,
sons and daughters, husbands and
wives. They are humans, and they ar-
guably have one of the most difficult
jobs in America.
So today and each day, let’s honor
our brothers and sisters in blue. Let’s
thank them for the important work
that they do to keep us all safe.
f
b 1215
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, Presi-
dent Trump’s irresponsible shutdown is
in its 19th day. America’s working fam-
ilies are bearing the brunt.
In Illinois alone, more than 7,000 Fed-
eral workers are going without pay.
Without a solution, more Americans,
and our Nation’s economy, will suffer.
Tax refunds that families depend on
could be frozen or delayed.
Nutrition assistance programs could
be reduced. The Northern Illinois Food
Bank is now dipping in to reserves to
operate without USDA funding.
Air travelers, already experiencing
longer lines as TSA struggles to staff
checkpoints with workers who aren’t
being paid, will incur even longer
delays.
None of this is necessary. Last week,
this new Congress passed bipartisan
bills to fully reopen our government.
This week we will pass them again, de-
partment by department.
The President needs to stop holding
our Federal agencies and the liveli-
hoods of thousands of families hostage.
The Senate needs to take ‘‘yes’’ for an
answer and vote to open the govern-
ment now. Then we can continue the
debate on how best to secure our bor-
der.
f
RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF
KEN SCHWEBEL
(Mr. SMUCKER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SMUCKER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize a constituent and a
friend of mine, Mr. Ken Schwebel, of
Mount Joy, Pennsylvania, who faith-
fully served as the chairman of the
Keystone Chapter of Associated Build-
ers and Contractors in 2018. Ken also
currently serves as the president of the
Witmer Group, a leading regional ma-
sonry company.
Ken led the Keystone ABC Chapter
through many milestones during his
time as chair. Under his leadership, the
chapter chartered its first-ever college
student chapter from Millersville Uni-
versity, and also taught middle-school
children more about construction
through two Construction War pro-
grams.
The chapter also had a record num-
ber of participants in networking
events, and had the largest enrollment
in its apprenticeship program under
Ken’s leadership.
I would like to congratulate and
thank Ken for his service to the con-
struction industry and to our commu-
nity.
f
WE CAN DO BETTER
(Mr. BERA asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BERA. Mr. Speaker, today, on
Twitter, President Trump threatened
to withhold FEMA disaster money
from California.
Mr. Speaker, maybe the President
doesn’t know what FEMA disaster
funding goes for. It helps rebuild
homes. It helps folks rebuild schools,
hospitals.
Maybe the President doesn’t know
that we have suffered devastating
wildfires in California. We have lost
close to 28,000 structures. We have had
billions of dollars of damage. Close to
my district, 14,000 homes were lost.
Mr. Speaker, what makes America
great is when our neighbors, our fellow
countrymen suffer a tragedy, we come
together as a Nation.
Mr. Speaker, what I find disgusting is
that the President seems to lack the
compassion to know that fellow Ameri-
cans are suffering right now.
Mr. Speaker, we can do better than
that.
f
NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
DAY
(Mr. MITCHELL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise to address the House on National
Law Enforcement Day.
I am not sure we are all aware of the
demands and risks that the men and
women in uniform face every day when
they go out to work. They respond to
the call always, every day, in bad
weather, in disasters, at huge risk.
They often don’t know what to ex-
pect, but they respond. They respond
to domestic violence. They respond in
issues of drug trafficking. They re-
spond when there are bullets flying,
and they do it without hesitation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.017 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H301
January 9, 2019
I want to honor all of them, and their
families, that go every day, put on a
uniform and protect all of us. And, in
particular, I want to say thank you to
my oldest son who, as a six year old,
decided he wanted to be a police offi-
cer, and continues to serve every day
protecting his family and our commu-
nity.
And I want to thank all the law en-
forcement officers that, every day, get
up to keep us safe.
f
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH
(Mr. LEVIN of Michigan asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Speaker,
last night, the President went on tele-
vision in an attempt to justify his deci-
sion to shut down our government and
plunge our country into chaos. He
claims that we are in the middle of an
emergency, and I actually agree with
him on that. I just don’t agree on what
the emergency is.
It is an emergency that more than
5,200 Federal workers in Michigan are
working without pay, or are fur-
loughed.
It is an emergency that the Environ-
mental Protection Agency has halted
inspections of our drinking water sys-
tems.
And it is an emergency that our
President is ready to spend, in his
words, ‘‘years’’ prolonging this shut-
down and hurting American families
for the sake of an ineffective and ex-
pensive border wall.
On day 1, House Democrats took the
first steps to clean up this mess by
passing a complete funding package to
reopen our government. Now we are
preparing further action to reopen all
government agencies, one by one, and
remove any doubt that hardworking
Americans will receive their tax re-
funds and the services they depend on.
Enough is enough. Michiganders
can’t afford one more day of the Trump
shutdown.
f
PROTECTING AFFORDABLE
HEALTHCARE
(Ms. UNDERWOOD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Speaker, the
people of the Illinois 14th elected me as
their Representative to protect their
access to healthcare coverage and to
make healthcare and prescription
drugs more affordable.
I am a nurse, and I have a preexisting
condition and so I know, personally,
how critically important having high-
quality affordable healthcare is for
people.
Today, we are taking an essential
step to protect access to affordable
coverage from the GOP’s cruel lawsuit
which seeks to destroy the Affordable
Care Act and its lifesaving protection.
My community sent me here to use
my voice and my vote as their neighbor
and as a nurse, and I am proud to vote
today to protect people with pre-
existing conditions; to prohibit insur-
ance companies from imposing lifetime
and annual limits on health coverage;
and to preserve young adults’ ability to
remain on their parents’ insurance
until age 26, and more.
I commend my colleague, Mr.
ALLRED, and am proud to join my
Democratic colleagues in wasting no
time delivering on our promise to de-
feat Republican attacks on the Afford-
able Care Act, and to fight for the peo-
ple, and to protect Americans with pre-
existing conditions.
f
GUN SAFETY REFORM
(Mr. TED LIEU of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. TED LIEU of California. Mr.
Speaker, I would like to take this op-
portunity to offer my condolences to
the families of the three individuals
whose lives were cut tragically short
because of gun violence in my district.
Last Friday, a senseless shooting at a
bowling alley in Torrance claimed the
lives of Michael Radford, Robert
Meekins, and Astin Edwards, while in-
juring four others.
Gable House Bowl, where the mass
shooting took place, is a staple in my
hometown. It is a place where I have
visited; where my kids have celebrated
birthdays; where folks in my commu-
nity go to spend quality time together,
and it should have been a place last
Friday where people of all ages could
have had fun safely.
My heart aches for the victims’ fami-
lies who lost their loved ones in a
senseless, preventable manner. I am
also dismayed that our community
now joins an ever-growing cohort of
communities touched by mass shoot-
ings.
Gun safety reform is a complicated
task, but I am grateful that the House,
now under Democratic leadership, is
taking this challenge on. Yesterday, we
introduced H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Back-
ground Checks Act of 2019, which is an
excellent place to start addressing gun
safety reform. We must continue to
push for sensible gun safety measures.
f
DO THE RIGHT THING NOW
(Ms. WEXTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. WEXTON. Mr. Speaker, my dis-
trict lies just outside of Washington,
D.C., in northern Virginia, and is home
to tens of thousands of Federal workers
and contractors. Since I was sworn in
on Thursday, I have received hundreds
of calls, emails, and social media out-
reach from my constituents whose
lives are upended. I would like to read
one of those messages now.
I am a Federal employee who used the last
of his discretionary funds this week to at-
tend his grandfather’s funeral. Now I’m pre-
paring to file for unemployment. My wife has
to try to get a job despite her severe and
crippling disability, and we’ve had to return
some of the Christmas presents for ourselves,
our four-year-old son, and our six-year-old
daughter.
We’ve always lived paycheck to paycheck
because of the high cost of living in northern
Virginia, and we don’t have the option to
take out loans because we incurred so much
debt moving to the area and dealing with our
family’s medical bills.
Right now I am contacting our utilities
and mortgage company to see if we can push
out the deadlines for bills. I gave up military
service to join the civil service and have
been so disheartened to see the lack of re-
spect for our Federal employees.
Mr. Speaker, we owe our Federal em-
ployees better than this. I call on the
Senate and the President to do the
right thing and end this shutdown now.
f
THE UNNECESSARY AND RECK-
LESS GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Ms. SHALALA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, it is
with great disappointment that I rise
today on the 19th day of this unneces-
sary and reckless government shut-
down.
Just last week, this body passed the
very same Republican funding bills
that would open the government and
keep Americans safe and secure.
My community in south Florida is
home to one of the biggest airports in
our Nation, Miami International Air-
port. Just yesterday, 130,000 passengers
passed through the airport. Yet, TSA
employees, air traffic controllers, and
Customs and Border Protection agents
who inspect international cargo are
forced to work without pay, and must
deal with the unbearable decision of
choosing between paying for healthcare
or putting food on the table.
Nearly a quarter of the households in
my district rely on food stamps. If this
shutdown continues, these families are
at risk of losing access to food.
There is absolutely no reason why
families should be evicted from their
homes or go hungry because their nu-
trition benefits were left unprocessed.
There is absolutely no reason why
the Everglades and Biscayne National
Parks, and our national treasures
around the country, must continue to
rely on the kindness of devoted volun-
teers to keep them from deteriorating.
Mr. Speaker, I have been through a
shutdown before. I oversaw 125,000 em-
ployees at HHS during the longest
shutdown.
No one wins in a shutdown. It was
painful.
f
MEDGAR EVERS HOME NATIONAL
MONUMENT
(Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Speaker, today I will introduce H.R.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.019 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H302 January 9, 2019
356, the Medgar Evers Home National
Monument Act. The home is located in
Jackson, Mississippi.
The Evers family home, which was
designated a National Historic Land-
mark in 2017, is hallowed ground for
those of us who lived through the
struggle for racial equality and deseg-
regation. That single-story, ranch-
style home bore witness to one of the
most consequential monuments in the
civil rights era, the assassination of
Medgar Wiley Evers.
I am honored to, in my capacity as
Congressman of the Second Congres-
sional District of Mississippi, to offer
this legislation to honor the sacrifice
of not just civil rights icon Medgar
Evers, but his widow, Myrlie, by desig-
nating their home as a national monu-
ment.
Due to bipartisan efforts last Con-
gress, this legislation passed through
the Committee on Natural Resources
and ultimately passed the House by
unanimous consent. I am asking that
we make this happen again and honor
the legacy of an icon in American his-
tory, Medgar Wiley Evers.
I urge everyone to support this legis-
lation.
f
LET’S REOPEN THE GOVERNMENT
TODAY
(Mrs. DAVIS of California asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speak-
er, we are about to witness the longest
government shutdown in U.S. history.
Hundreds of thousands of Federal em-
ployees, many in my own district, are
not certain when or if their next pay-
check is coming, and for what? For
what? For a border wall?
Mr. Speaker, in San Diego, we know
walls. We have a triple fence, and we
know there are real concerns on the
border. Let’s work on solving those
problems. Spending billions of dollars
on a wall won’t.
In San Diego, we have the most mod-
ern port of entry in the country. It
works well to catch drugs and stop
criminals. If the President wants bor-
der security, well, that, that should be
our focus.
Paola Avila, of the San Diego Cham-
ber said it best: ‘‘Our border region is
an opportunity zone, not a danger
zone.’’
Let’s take that opportunity and work
to improve our border, not waste
money on a wall. And let’s not waste
any more time. Federal employees
want to get back to work.
We have already passed legislation,
bipartisan legislation, to end this shut-
down. Let’s reopen the government
today.
f
b 1230
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
(Ms. SCHRIER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Speaker, I am
honored to deliver my first floor speech
today speaking about an issue that is
deeply personal to me, to the patients
that I care for as a pediatrician, and to
thousands of my constituents in Wash-
ington’s Eighth District.
As you know, the lawful nature of
the Affordable Care Act has been chal-
lenged, and if the decision stands, 17
million Americans will lose their
health insurance. This includes many
of my patients, children, and people
with preexisting conditions.
Having seen families struggle to pay
ever higher insurance premiums and
deductibles every year, I understand
that we need improvements in our sys-
tem. The answer is to shore up the
ACA, not dismantle it. And as the lone
woman doctor in Congress and as a pa-
tient with type 1 diabetes, I look for-
ward to leading that conversation.
The first step is to preserve the pro-
tections that we have now, and that is
why I am so pleased that the House
will take steps to intervene in this
court case.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
consider the fates of their constituents
who might not have access to medical
care without the Affordable Care Act
and to support this intervention. Mil-
lions of Americans and thousands in
my district are counting on us.
f
ELECTING MEMBERS TO CERTAIN
STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Democratic Caucus, I
offer a privileged resolution and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 31
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and are hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing standing committees of the House of
Representatives:
COMMITTEE ON ETHICS: Mr. Deutch, Chair.
COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION: Ms.
Lofgren, Chair.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 264, FINANCIAL SERV-
ICES AND GENERAL GOVERN-
MENT APPROPRIATIONS ACT,
2019; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDER-
ATION OF H.R. 265, AGRI-
CULTURE, RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019; PROVIDING FOR CON-
SIDERATION OF H.R. 266, DE-
PARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR,
ENVIRONMENT, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019; PROVIDING FOR CON-
SIDERATION OF H.R. 267, TRANS-
PORTATION, HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RE-
LATED AGENCIES APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019; AND WAIVING A
REQUIREMENT OF CLAUSE 6(a)
OF RULE XIII WITH RESPECT TO
CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN
RESOLUTIONS REPORTED FROM
THE COMMITTEE ON RULES
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 28 and ask for
its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 28
Resolved, That upon adoption of this reso-
lution it shall be in order to consider in the
House any bill specified in section 2 of this
resolution. All points of order against con-
sideration of each such bill are waived. Each
such bill shall be considered as read. All
points of order against provisions in each
such bill are waived. The previous question
shall be considered as ordered on each such
bill and on any amendment thereto to final
passage without intervening motion except:
(1) one hour of debate equally divided and
controlled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Appropriations
or their respective designees; and (2) one mo-
tion to recommit.
SEC. 2. The bills referred to in the first sec-
tion of this resolution are as follows:
(a) The bill (H.R. 264) making appropria-
tions for financial services and general gov-
ernment for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
(b) The bill (H.R. 265) making appropria-
tions for Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
(c) The bill (H.R. 266) making appropria-
tions for the Department of the Interior, en-
vironment, and related agencies for the fis-
cal year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes.
(d) The bill (H.R. 267) making appropria-
tions for the Department of Transportation,
and Housing and Urban Development, and re-
lated agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
SEC. 3. The requirement of clause 6(a) of
rule XIII for a two-thirds vote to consider a
report from the Committee on Rules on the
same day it is presented to the House is
waived with respect to any resolution re-
ported through the legislative day of Janu-
ary 15, 2019, relating to a measure making or
continuing appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Massachusetts is recog-
nized for 1 hour.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.022 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H303
January 9, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, for
the purpose of debate only, I yield the
customary 30 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE), my
good friend, the ranking member, pend-
ing which I yield myself such time as I
may consume. During consideration of
this resolution, all time yielded is for
the purpose of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
be given 5 legislative days to revise and
extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, on
Tuesday, the Rules Committee met and
reported a rule, House Resolution 28,
providing for consideration of H.R. 264,
making appropriations for financial
services and general government; H.R.
265, making appropriations for Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and
Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies programs; H.R. 266, making
appropriations for the Department of
the Interior, environment, and related
agencies; and H.R. 267, making appro-
priations for the Department of Trans-
portation, and Housing and Urban De-
velopment, and related agencies, each
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019. The rule provides for consider-
ation of each bill under a closed rule.
Mr. Speaker, we need to pass these
bills, because we need to reopen gov-
ernment.
Let me just say to my colleagues,
quite frankly, this is not the way I had
hoped we would start the new Con-
gress, essentially cleaning up the mess
that my Republican friends left us
from the last Congress, but we are
where we are, and this is an emer-
gency. It is time to reopen the govern-
ment.
Mr. Speaker, what we saw last night
from the President, in my opinion, was
a disgrace. He used the Oval Office to
fearmonger and smear immigrants.
There was nothing new, no plan to get
us out of this shutdown, no solutions,
just more of the same offensive rhet-
oric we have heard time and time again
from this President.
But this Democratic majority is
moving quickly to end the Trump shut-
down. On day one of this new Congress,
we passed a complete funding package
using bipartisan language to reopen
government, and now, today, we are
taking further action to help the
American people while responsibly pro-
tecting our borders.
This rule will allow us to pass indi-
vidual appropriations bills to reopen
key government agencies. That in-
cludes the Department of the Treasury
and the Internal Revenue Service, to
prevent Americans’ tax refunds from
being withheld during the shutdown;
the Department of Agriculture, to pre-
vent hungry families from losing the
lifeline of SNAP benefits and assure
that our farmers get the services that
they need; the Department of the Inte-
rior, to prevent our national parks and
monuments from being further de-
graded and allow EPA to resume its
work protecting public health and our
environment; and the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, to
help hardworking families in the proc-
ess of realizing the dream of homeown-
ership. These bills offer us a way out of
the President’s shutdown, an embar-
rassing spectacle that never should
have happened in the first place.
Nineteen days ago, the President of
the United States threw a temper tan-
trum. He went back on his word, break-
ing his promise to sign bipartisan ap-
propriations bills that would have pre-
vented a quarter of our government
from shutting down.
He turned on FOX News or some
rightwing radio show somewhere and
changed his mind. Suddenly, the Presi-
dent demanded $5 billion in funding for
his offensive border wall just to keep
the lights on—billions of dollars, by
the way, that would just have been a
downpayment on an unnecessary
project that would cost tens of billions
of dollars, and not at Mexico’s expense
like President Trump promised over
and over and over and over again.
Now the costs have been shifted to
the American taxpayer, when, accord-
ing to Reuters/Ipsos polling, only 25
percent of the public says they support
Trump shutting down the government
over the wall—25 percent. This is crazy,
but this doesn’t have to continue.
At his press conference the other
day, the President boasted he could
keep our government closed for years.
Now, he may not know how to get us
out of this mess, but this Democratic
majority does, and there are many re-
sponsible Republicans on the other side
of the aisle who are with us on reopen-
ing the government.
Last week, our funding package
passed with bipartisan support. Seven
Republicans voted with us, including
Republican Congressman WILL HURD,
whose district includes much of the
U.S.-Mexico border.
In addition, a growing number of
Senate Republicans have encouraged
the majority leader to bring those bills
to the floor, including Senator COLLINS
of Maine and Senator GARDNER of Colo-
rado. Senator GARDNER said, recently:
‘‘The Senate has done it last Congress;
we should do it again today,’’ and I
agree.
So let’s send these bills to the Senate
so they can once again pass Congress
with overwhelming bipartisan support.
The Senate Majority Leader already
supported these bills once. Why not
support them again to finally reopen
this government?
Because we can’t wait for the Presi-
dent to publicly promise to sign these
bills before we act—we already know
his word isn’t worth much; his broken
promise is what got us here—it has
fallen to Congress to get us out of this
shutdown.
Congressman HURD said after voting
for the Democratic appropriations
package last week: ‘‘Ultimately, Con-
gress is a coequal branch of govern-
ment, and it should operate that way.’’
He is absolutely right. And these bills
are this majority’s latest attempt to
fulfill our responsibility.
There are 40 million Americans who
rely on SNAP to put food on the table.
Their benefits will lapse shortly if this
shutdown is allowed to continue.
Mr. Speaker, why should Americans
go hungry just because the President
wants to appease someone like Rush
Limbaugh? Why in the world would
Congress sit idly by as thousands of
people trying to buy a new home or re-
finance FHA-insured mortgages are left
in limbo?
We are now in tax season. If we don’t
end this shutdown, more than 2 million
Americans who every month turn to
tax assistance centers will find them
closed as they try to complete their an-
nual returns.
This is madness, and it is completely
unnecessary. Tax returns delayed,
home purchases in limbo, food assist-
ance in jeopardy for the hungry, trash
piling up in our national parks, it is an
embarrassment—not to mention the
800,000 Federal workers who aren’t get-
ting paid, and countless more contrac-
tors.
It can be over in a heartbeat if we
pass these bills and the Senate takes
yes for an answer. These bills honor
our responsibility to turn the lights
back on. They don’t waste even a dol-
lar of taxpayer money on the Presi-
dent’s immoral border wall, nor should
they. People overwhelmingly object to
building it.
I hope this President comes to his
senses, that he stops holding our Na-
tion hostage as he plays to the fringes
of his base. But none of us can control
that. We do have the ability, though,
to do our jobs and to end the shutdown.
That is what this Congress will do
again today, and I urge all of my col-
leagues to join with us.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair is constrained to again remind
Members to refrain from engaging in
personalities toward the President of
the United States.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank my good friend, Chairman
MCGOVERN, for yielding me the cus-
tomary 30 minutes, and I yield myself
such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, we are back again on
appropriations, and we are back again
on the exact same set of bills as before.
Last week, the House agreed, over
Republican objections, to pass a set of
appropriations bills, six of which would
fund the relevant departments for a
full year, the seventh of which would
fund the Department of Homeland Se-
curity until February 8.
Today, not content with already hav-
ing passed these bills once, my friends
in the majority are again bringing up
four individual bills that were part of
the same package covering the Trans-
portation and Housing and Urban De-
velopment bill, Financial Services and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.025 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H304 January 9, 2019
general government bill, the Agri-
culture bill, and the Interior and Envi-
ronment bill. Nothing substantive in
these bills has changed. Indeed, noth-
ing substantive has yet changed any-
where in this process:
The government remains partially
shut down;
The Senate is refusing to pass the
bills my Democratic Party colleagues
are proposing;
The President is refusing to sign
them; and
The majority is proposing to fix the
problem by passing the exact same
bills.
To quote the great Yogi Bera: ‘‘It is
deja vu all over again.’’
While I commend my friends in the
majority for trying to reopen the gov-
ernment, let’s be clear about what they
are proposing. The four bills under con-
sideration here represent only the Sen-
ate-passed versions of the bills cov-
ering the fiscal year 2019 appropria-
tions process. They represent no input
at all from the House, no input at all
from the Appropriations Committee,
and no input at all from the joint
House and Senate conference commit-
tees that were appointed to iron out
the differences between these bills and
their House counterparts.
In essence, the Democrats’ only plan
is for the House to swallow the Sen-
ate’s original bills, abrogate our au-
thority and responsibility as a coequal
House of Congress, and declare victory.
What is more surprising is that my
friends now expect that having tried
this same thing before, they will now
get a different result.
To be clear, last week, when the
House passed these exact same bills,
the Senate made it known these bills
would not come to the floor; and even
if they did, the President has made it
known that he would not sign them. I
don’t know what they think is so dif-
ferent about this week over last to
make my friends think that all they
need to do is to pass them again and,
magically, the Senate will pass these
bills and the President will sign them.
b 1245
Perhaps even more surprising, the
majority now wishes to bring these
four bills forward under a closed rule,
with no opportunity for the House to
amend them and no opportunity for
Members to weigh in. As a member of
the Appropriations Committee, I un-
derstand how hard it is to have a full
process on appropriations bills. But it
is, indeed, possible, even when funding
bills carry over into a new year or even
a new majority.
In 2011, right after Republicans took
majority control of the House, we con-
sidered a bill on the floor to fund the
entire Federal Government. We did it
under an open rule, with only a
preprinting requirement. When we con-
sidered that bill on the floor, 162
amendments were offered from both
sides of the aisle, and we had a grand
total of 66 hours of floor debate on the
bill, stretching out over 5 days.
Given the amount of time we used in
2011, I fully understand what an under-
taking that would be. But unless the
majority believes that these bills will
quickly pass the Senate and quickly be
signed by the President into law, then
there is plenty of time for thoughtful
debate and plenty of time to hear ideas
from all Members of this House. In-
stead, the majority has chosen to push
forward with an appropriations strat-
egy that they know cannot succeed.
Mr. Speaker, the House should be
taking steps this week to negotiate
with the Senate and the President to
end this shutdown. That means that,
whether the majority likes it or not,
they need to engage on border security.
The American people have told us
time and time again that they want ac-
tion on border security. The solution
they are proposing today does nothing
on that front.
Even if we pass these bills today, and
even if they, ultimately, became law,
the border would remain unsecured and
the Department of Homeland Security
would remain shut down. Nothing the
House will do in this package will
change that essential fact, and nothing
in this package is a step on the road to
changing that essential fact.
Mr. Speaker, it wasn’t always this
way. In 2006, 64 Democrats joined Re-
publicans in passing the Secure Fence
Act, which President Bush signed into
law. Those 64 Democrats then included
13 current Members now and one addi-
tional Member who has since gone on
to the Senate. Even liberal lions of the
House, like our good friend and former
colleague Congressman Barney Frank,
joined the Republicans in voting for
border security. I am unclear what has
changed, from then until now, that
would cause the entire majority Cau-
cus to refuse to work with Republicans
on border security when so many did so
back in 2006.
In closing, Mr. Speaker, while I agree
with the good intentions of the major-
ity in seeking to fund the government,
their method of doing so is in no way
sufficient. Instead of abrogating our
own authority, embracing a Senate-
only product that the President will
not sign, and kicking the can down the
road, we should be taking concrete
steps to reopen the government, secure
the border, and move on to the many
important needs of the American peo-
ple.
Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to the
rule and the underlying legislation,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma’s comments. I
just want to make a couple of quick
points before yielding to my next
speaker.
We, as Democrats, are struggling in
support of border security, and we have
supported initiative after initiative to
basically make our borders more se-
cure. We believe in investing in infra-
structure and more personnel. We be-
lieve in providing more judges to be
able to adjudicate asylum claims so we
can process people more expeditiously.
We believe in technology. It is 2019, yet
the President insists on this medieval
approach to border security, which
most experts say is just ineffective.
On top of all of that, our objection is
that it is going to cost tens of billions
of dollars. The President said that
Mexico is going to pay for it, but now
he is saying that the American tax-
payers are going to pay for it. I mean,
give me a break.
As far as why we are doing the strat-
egy of taking up these Senate-passed
bills, let me remind my colleagues:
They passed the Senate 92–6 back in
August.
I would have liked a different proc-
ess. My friends were in charge of every-
thing up to a week ago. They con-
trolled the House; they controlled the
Senate; and they controlled the White
House. Yet they sent people home dur-
ing the holidays and just kicked the
can down the road, and we have inher-
ited this mess from the last Congress.
So we are doing the best we can.
If the Senate would vote, like they
did in August, again for these bills—92–
6—we won’t need the President. We
could override his veto; we could re-
open the government; and we could
stop all of this nonsense right now.
That is my hope.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
SCANLON), a distinguished member of
the Rules Committee.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, it is
time for this administration to choose
people over politics.
As we are talking about the shut-
down, the stories of real people are get-
ting lost in the mess created by this
administration. I want to share the se-
rious impact of the shutdown on my
constituents and Americans around the
country.
These stories come from hardworking
families, like newlyweds in my district
who just had a premature baby. They
spent 3 weeks in the NICU and are just
now getting back home. They told me:
‘‘We have so many bills and a mort-
gage, and the shutdown happened just
as we are sending in our first mortgage
payment. Our baby requires special for-
mula because he was not able to
breastfeed. My husband has been asked
to work overtime and is not getting
paid. We are scared about how we are
going to get by.’’
This is a national crisis, one our
President has created, and we have a
responsibility to fix it.
I call on the White House, my col-
leagues across the aisle, and their col-
leagues in the Senate to stop holding
our government hostage and allow the
government to reopen as we debate ef-
fective and humane border security.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume to
make a couple of quick points, and
then yield to another speaker, if I may.
Mr. Speaker, I want to disagree a lit-
tle bit with my friend’s memory on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.026 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H305
January 9, 2019
what the last Congress did and did not
do. Quite frankly, it was the most suc-
cessful Congress in enacting appropria-
tions bills in 22 years, 75 percent of
them across the floor on time. We will
see how good the record is as my
friends are in the majority. And I am
going to work with my friends on that,
because I know it is the intention to do
that, but it is no easy task.
To say that the last Congress didn’t
act when, in fact, it put a bill over in
the United States Senate that the
President would have signed is simply
untrue. To suggest that Republicans
controlled the Senate in this process,
when a Democratic minority in the
Senate kept us from getting to 60
votes, there is where your real obstruc-
tion was. Quite frankly, this problem
would have never happened if the Sen-
ate chose to operate the way we do, by
simple majority vote, and the Presi-
dent would have had a bill.
One last point, if I may. The Presi-
dent did offer to negotiate. The reports
in the media are that he actually of-
fered to reduce his request by half.
That is normally, around here, consid-
ered a real negotiation: Let’s split the
difference and find the common
ground.
My friends didn’t choose to take up
that offer. So the idea that they have
somehow been innocent bystanders
when they were in the minority, in a
process out of control, simply mis-
states reality.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from the great State of
Washington (Mr. NEWHOUSE), my good
friend, a member of the Appropriations
Committee, and a former member of
the Rules Committee.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my friend from Oklahoma for
yielding me some time.
Well, Mr. Speaker, here we are again.
Last night, the Rules Committee,
under its new chairman, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, voted to bring four spending bills
to the House floor, four bills that have
never had a hearing in this body, have
never had a markup in this body, and
now, under Democratic control of the
House, will have no amendments made
in order.
These bills may sound familiar to my
constituents because these are the
exact same bills that House Democrats
forced votes on last week, only now we
will be considering them one by one,
rather than in a large package.
Mr. Speaker, as a member of the
Rules Committee over the last 4 years,
I can tell you I had the distinct honor
of listening to the now-chairman of the
Rules Committee spend hours, literally
hours, berating those of us in the ma-
jority for not allowing amendments on
bills.
So, Mr. Speaker, you can understand
my full expectation as Democrats took
control of this body that we would be
seeing open rules allowing for vigorous
debate on amendments and healthy,
open dialogue and transparency on
these important pieces of legislation.
Unfortunately, that is not the case.
If I could, Mr. Speaker, I would like
to quote the now-chairman who spoke
of his frustrations with the Rules Com-
mittee in recent months.
First of all:
The Rules Committee ought to be a place
where people who have good ideas, whether
you agree with them or not, have legitimate
ideas, ought to be able to have the oppor-
tunity to be able to offer them. Increasingly,
we’re moving away from that.
Secondly, Mr. Speaker:
I’m always intrigued by the excuses why
we can’t be open . . . and decry this very
closed process.
And lastly, Mr. Speaker:
I hope if we’re lucky enough to take over
this place, I hope that we’re more accommo-
dating.
Well, Mr. Speaker, they were, in fact,
lucky enough. The Democrats took
control of this body and very well
could be allowing amendments today.
But, unfortunately, that is not the
case.
For instance, last night, I offered
three amendments to two of the bills
before us, all three of which were ac-
cepted unanimously in the 115th Con-
gress in the House Appropriations
Committee, again, on a bipartisan
basis.
Unfortunately, the chairman isn’t al-
lowing a single amendment on the Re-
publican or Democratic side to be of-
fered on any of these four bills, includ-
ing bipartisan amendments like those
that I had offered.
I thank my good friend from Okla-
homa (Mr. COLE) for his effort to push
these amendments to be made in order.
It is sincerely disappointing to see the
chairman and House Democrats man-
age legislation in the very manner they
so vehemently decried.
Mr. Speaker, I will be voting ‘‘no’’ on
this rule and ‘‘no’’ on these spending
bills.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman
from Washington.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. My constituents’
priorities deserve to be represented in
the people’s House. Unfortunately, in
this bill, they are not.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the com-
ments of my friend from Washington
State, a former member of the Rules
Committee. I should just tell him—and
I am a little bit surprised, since he was
on the Rules Committee—two of his
amendments that he offered didn’t
even comply with the House rules, so
that is why they wouldn’t be made in
order.
But let me just say to him, as I began
my remarks, it is unfortunate that we
had to start this Congress cleaning up
after the last Congress, but that is
where we are. That is what you have
given us. And I am eager to return to
regular order as soon as we reopen this
government.
What we are witnessing is extraor-
dinary. In fact, it is unprecedented. For
the first time in history, we have
begun a new Congress in the middle of
a government shutdown.
I tried last month to bring up appro-
priations bills, bills that Mr. HOYER of-
fered on the floor to reopen this gov-
ernment, but you shut me down every
single time, so here we are.
We meant it when we said that we
would do everything we can to reopen
this government, because this is a real
emergency. 800,000 hardworking civil
servants are either furloughed or work-
ing without pay. That is what an emer-
gency looks like. This is an emergency.
I appreciate the kind of laid-back at-
titude of some of my friends on the
other side of the aisle who are like:
Well, let’s start all over again. Let’s re-
open the process. Let’s have endless de-
bate from now until whenever.
But do you know what? It is not us
who are not being paid; it is our con-
stituents. So this is an emergency. It is
time that all of us come together and
end this ridiculous shutdown and then
get on to the business of the future.
That is what I am committed to.
I hope that the Rules Committee will
be much more accommodating to my
friends on the other side of the aisle
than my friends were to us, by the way,
overseeing the most closed Congress in
the history of the United States of
America.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Colorado (Mr. PERL-
MUTTER), a distinguished member of
the Rules Committee.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Mr. MCGOVERN for yielding time
to me.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support
the rule and the four underlying bills
to help fully reopen the United States
of America. Here we are, 19 days into
the Trump shutdown, and all we see is
political posturing from the White
House and the Republican-controlled
Senate, which has failed to take any
steps to reopen the government.
The President has made Federal em-
ployees political pawns to try and get
his way. He has put America and the
hardworking men and women who
work for her in jeopardy.
b 1300
Last week, I joined a bipartisan ma-
jority of the House in supporting two
bills to fully reopen the government.
Unfortunately, the Senate has failed to
take up those bills. They would imme-
diately reopen the government and put
800,000 people back to work.
I know that the gentleman from
Oklahoma said we have plenty of time.
Those were his words just now. We
don’t have plenty of time. We need to
get people back to work.
I want to share some stories from my
district. Denver Federal Center is in
the middle of my district, and it has
the highest concentration of Federal
agencies anywhere in the country out-
side of the D.C. area.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.028 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H306 January 9, 2019
More than 15,000 of these and other
Federal workers in Colorado have ei-
ther been furloughed or forced to con-
tinue working without knowing wheth-
er they will be paid or not.
One of these employees is Sherry who
works for the EPA. Sherry is fur-
loughed and doesn’t know when she
will get back to work or if she will be
paid when the EPA reopens. Sherry has
two sons with disabilities who rely on
counseling and treatment not covered
by her insurance. She is being forced to
make decisions about how to continue
their treatment, pay for groceries, and
keep up with her family’s other ex-
penses.
Or take Shannon, who is a supervisor
for the TSA. Shannon is still on the job
but doesn’t know when she and her co-
workers are going to get paid for work.
Shannon told my office: If the shut-
down lasts through this month, it will
be nearly impossible for her family to
make rent. They barely made January
payments and still have outstanding
utility and credit card bills.
I also met with Matt this morning
who is an air traffic controller in Den-
ver. He and his coworkers have stayed
on the job keeping our skies and the
traveling public safe, but will not re-
ceive paychecks on Friday.
One more story is from Gabe who
lives in Wheat Ridge, Colorado, where I
live. Gabe is a student who called my
office concerned he won’t be able to
start classes at the University of Colo-
rado because his registration with the
Selective Service System cannot be
processed until the government re-
opens.
These are just a few examples of why
we need to fully reopen the govern-
ment. I urge my friend from Oklahoma
to work with Mr. HOYER, Ms. PELOSI,
and Mr. MCGOVERN to come up with so-
lutions to this, to get these people
back to work as soon as possible,
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on the rule, and
‘‘yes’’ on the underlying legislation.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume, and
then I will yield to my good friend
from Michigan.
Mr. Speaker, I will be happy to take
up the challenge. I would be happy to
meet with anybody to reopen the gov-
ernment. I would be happy if we had a
product in front of us, which we did
have in late December that had actu-
ally been agreed to by the United
States Senate.
Why my friends chose to just simply
take the Senate bills—which I will as-
sure you, are not nearly as good as the
conference bills between the two bod-
ies—and throw all of the work out that
this body did over a year, the appropri-
ators, and the rest of the authorizing
committees that play a supplemental
role in this, I will never know.
It would have been a lot harder to
vote ‘‘no’’ than just simply sit here and
strip 435 Members of their ability to
legislate, which is effectively what my
friends in the majority have chosen to
do.
I hope going forward we can do ex-
actly what my friend suggests. I would
also suggest that the people he men-
tioned go meet with the President of
the United States. He was here all De-
cember, happy to negotiate with any-
body. He wasn’t in Hawaii. He was
here. He offered to split the difference.
That was an unacceptable offer to my
friends.
So if you want to negotiate, nego-
tiate with the President. If you want to
do something with the Senate, I would
expect that you should probably sit
down and talk to them because you are
sending them something this week that
you sent last week, that they didn’t
take up then, and they are not going to
take up now.
So whenever we want to negotiate, I
would be thrilled to be at the table, but
I haven’t seen any evidence that my
friends do want to negotiate. Instead,
they simply want to dictate. They sim-
ply want to dictate the outcome and
achieve what they think is a political
victory, and that is coming at the ex-
pense of the American people. Real ne-
gotiations mean sitting down and set-
tling differences. It doesn’t mean
shooting paper back and forth across
the rotunda.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Michigan (Mr. MITCH-
ELL), my good friend and a distin-
guished Member.
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, I know
the gentleman has to recognize the
irony, how, despite 2 years of claiming
that he wants open rules, the Democrat
rule package talking about regular
order, and here we have a closed rule
for advancing these bills.
The gentleman talks about the most
closed Congress was the 115th Congress.
I will wait and see if the gentleman’s
side in leading Congress’ score is better
than the 115th Congress was. It would
be interesting to keep that scorecard.
In the past, I have supported bills
like these, especially appropriations
bills for agriculture, transportation,
housing, and urban development.
On the whole, the agriculture bill has
priorities that are critical to my dis-
trict, including the farm safety net,
rural broadband, food safety, and more.
However, I can’t support these bills be-
cause they are offered in bad faith. It is
a charade. Let’s be honest. It is simply
a charade. It is not a serious attempt
to fund agriculture or any other prior-
ities in my district or in this country.
It is, in fact, distract and delay in
order to put pressure on, to squeeze the
American people to get what you want.
It is madness, I will agree with you.
It is madness where we are going right
now because 17,000 people with criminal
convictions were stopped at the United
States southern border last year.
That doesn’t count the ones we didn’t
catch because they came in in other
ways. Yet, somehow, we want to ignore
that rather than worry about our bor-
der security. Without borders, without
secure borders, we are not a country.
The President, the administration of-
fered a package. My colleague on the
other side of the aisle, Mr. MCGOVERN,
I want him to see this letter. I assure
you, Mr. Speaker, you have it. It talks
about the priorities of the administra-
tion.
It talks about funding, yes, for a wall
or barrier for 234 miles. Only 234 miles,
not the 2,000 miles suddenly people are
talking about, which is a top 10 pri-
ority of U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection in order to funnel people cross-
ing the border to entry points.
It talks about additional immigra-
tion judges. It provides funding for ad-
ditional border patrol. It provides fund-
ing for infrastructure at the borders—
many things the other side of the aisle
was talking about. So why is it, that
rather than going to the White House,
closing the door, and not coming out
until you come up with an answer,
there is a press conference being held
in the Rayburn Reception Room where
once more we talk about, well, we are
not doing anything.
If you want to reopen the govern-
ment, go to the White House, close the
door, and don’t come back here until
we have a deal. A deal requires all par-
ties. These bills will not be taken up in
the Senate. The President said he will
veto them.
Negotiation, I spent 35 years in pri-
vate business, and negotiation means
you never get everything you want, but
you walk away where all parties say:
We could have gotten a little more. But
you solve the problem rather than put
people at risk.
We are putting people at risk in this
country. People won’t get paid Friday.
You are right. We are also putting the
American people at risk by not secur-
ing our border. We have kicked that
can down the road my entire time I
have been here, 2 years now, and long
before that.
One final point: We know that Demo-
crats previously have supported fund-
ing for border walls, border security,
and a border fence. Call it what you
want.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman
from Michigan.
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. Speaker, so why
is it now we can’t simply agree that we
need to do more to secure our border
along the lines of this, including 234
miles of wall, only because the Presi-
dent’s name is on it?
Come on, let’s solve the problem.
Let’s be adults here.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. JUDY CHU).
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Mr.
Speaker, this morning I met Chrissy,
an air traffic controller from Ventura,
California. Her job is to ensure the
safety and efficiency of air travel, but
the Trump shutdown has caused chaos.
Air traffic controllers will not receive
their paychecks on Friday. The FAA
support staff has been furloughed, and
the students in the air traffic control
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.030 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H307
January 9, 2019
academy have been sent home. Because
of this, air traffic controllers like her
are being forced to slow down every-
thing in order to ensure the same level
of air safety.
But it is not just Chrissy’s work that
is being impacted. She and her hus-
band, who is also an air traffic con-
troller, lost their home in the Thomas
fire, and now, as they try to rebuild
their home and their lives, Trump is
forcing them to do it without a pay-
check.
How can we do this to our workers?
Last night, Trump tried to make his
case to the Nation. What we heard was
a lot of xenophobia and division. What
we didn’t hear was any urgent threat
that would justify a shutdown right
now over a wall that would be built in
the future.
That is why we are bringing up to-
day’s bills to reopen government. If
Trump wants to negotiate over border
security, he should show concern for
workers like Chrissy and sign these
bills. Nineteen days into the shutdown,
Trump is making the American people
suffer for the sake of his ego.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on the rule, and join us in
passing these bills to reopen govern-
ment functions that have nothing to do
with Trump’s demand for a wall.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are again reminded not to use per-
sonalities when referring to the Presi-
dent of the United States.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to notify
the body, if we defeat the previous
question, I will offer an amendment to
the rule to report modified open rules
for each bill before us today: H.R. 264,
H.R. 265, H.R. 266, and H.R. 267. The
rule would include a preprinting re-
quirement.
Mr. Speaker, the bills before us today
are simply nothing more than Senate
products. House Democrats would rath-
er try to win political points against
the Senate than allow this House to do
its job. Again, the Senate hasn’t indi-
cated they will take up these measures,
and the President has not agreed to
sign these measures. There is time to
do this the right way.
In 2011, right after Republicans took
the majority control of the House, the
government was operating under a con-
tinuing resolution, and we considered a
bill on the floor to fund the entire Fed-
eral Government, and we did it under
one open rule with just a preprinting
requirement.
There were a total of 66 hours of floor
debate from the afternoon of February
15, 2011, to the early hours of February
19, including one stretch of debate that
lasted 42 hours.
I do understand what an enormous
undertaking it would be, but that
doesn’t mean we shouldn’t and can’t
take the time.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert the text of my amend-
ment in the RECORD, along with extra-
neous material, immediately prior to
the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I urge a
‘‘no’’ vote on the previous question,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am sorry the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. MITCHELL)
left the floor, but I know Mr.
NEWHOUSE is still here, and I am com-
plimented by the fact that they quote
me so much. But I want to quote me,
too, because I am going through what I
have said about open rules and about
the way this House should be run.
On November 14 on the floor I said:
And I am not suggesting that every rule
needs to be an open rule or that there is
never a time for a closed rule, but there is
never a time for more than 100 closed rules.
There is no justification for that.
That is me. And on April 24, I said:
I am under no illusion that every bill has
to be an open rule; although it would be nice
to have at least one symbolic open rule be-
fore the year is out.
On April 13, I said:
I can’t promise that every rule is going to
be an open rule, but I can say that there
would be a greater attempt to try to accom-
modate Members.
On September 2, I said:
Now, Mr. Speaker, I am not suggesting
that everything that the House considers
should be under an open rule. There are
times when a closed rule might be necessary.
But more than 100 closed rules? There is no
justification for that.
So I think I am being pretty con-
sistent here, because I have actually
voted for closed rules on this floor that
have been suggested in times of emer-
gency. I voted for one to actually bring
a continuing resolution to the floor so
that we wouldn’t have to deal with the
mess that we are in right now.
So in times of emergency, in times of
life or death, yes, there are justifica-
tions for a closed rule, and this is one
of them because this is last year’s
work. This is what my friends on the
other side left us with, unfinished busi-
ness from last year. Not only unfin-
ished business, but they allowed the
President to shut the government
down.
So hundreds of thousands of Amer-
ican workers are in a panic right now
because last year’s majority, my Re-
publican friends, did not do their job.
This is ridiculous. We ought to figure
out a way to have our discussions with-
out shutting the government down.
This is not the way you are supposed to
run government. And so we are offering
a solution here so that we can reopen
the government and continue our con-
versations about whatever you want.
The gentleman from Oklahoma said
we should split the difference on the
border wall.
b 1315
Mexico was supposed to pay for it.
Why are we splitting the difference?
Why are we assuming the cost of a bor-
der wall when the President said that
Mexico was going to pay for it, a bor-
der wall that most experts say is use-
less and ridiculous and that that
money could be better spent on other
ways of enforcing border security?
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
breaking news to the American people:
all the other body has to do, the Sen-
ate, is to take the bills passed by the
Democratic majority in the House and
the government will open in minutes,
simply with the signature of the Presi-
dent of the United States and the op-
portunity to work on the kind of bar-
rier that is appropriate for the border,
a State of which I come from, Texas, a
border State, and have deep knowledge
about which borders work and which
don’t. Then the government could
open—breaking news.
It is shameful for my Republican col-
leagues to come to the floor of the
House and not acknowledge that the
simple problem is with the White
House.
We are not interested in not talking
about border security. Democrats have
been working on border security for
decades and have been successful in the
funding to provide barriers that are
there now, that I just saw in the last
week, myself, at the border, as I have
done on many occasions, and simply
acknowledging that we helped build up
the Border Patrol agency. We as Demo-
crats have built up Customs and Border
Protection.
Mr. Speaker, I think it is important
to note that, when you take $5.7 billion
out of the budget, you are not writing
a paper check. What it means is that
you will cut into Border Patrol agents;
you will cut into Customs and Border
Protection; you will cut into dollars
for education; and you will cut into
dollars for healthcare.
How shameful, again, it is for the
President to use the opioid crisis that
we have been working on well for
many, many years. Does he understand
that most drugs come through a tunnel
and, as well, through legal points of
entry? They are not coming across
with families—women and children.
Does he understand, when he asks for
$5.7 billion, that we need $78 billion to
deal with the opioid crisis throughout
America, where 115 people die every
day? That is money that could be used
for providing treatment, providing re-
verse drugs, and providing access to
hospitals and medical care.
We should not be distorting facts to
alter the thinking of the American peo-
ple on untruths. We simply need to say,
yes, barriers are appropriate where
they can be placed. But this adminis-
tration is wrong. It pains my heart as
a senior member on the Homeland Se-
curity Committee to acknowledge that
he is holding the American people hos-
tage.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.031 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H308 January 9, 2019
Let me say to all the Federal work-
ers: We thank you.
On my way back to Washington, I
stopped to talk to TSA, transportation
security agents. They are on the front
lines of securing this Nation.
Thank you.
They are on the front lines, along
with air traffic controllers. Aviation is
still one of the greatest targets for ter-
rorism.
What does this President do? He
blocks them from getting paid this
very Friday.
Open the government now.
To the other body: Put our bills on
the floor of the Senate. Vote and send
it to the White House.
I dare the White House to reject the
pain of the American people and refuse
to open this government so that moth-
ers can have childcare, so that TSA
agents can be able to pay their mort-
gage, so that agricultural workers can
continue doing rural development and
food stamps, which are going to end in
a couple of weeks.
We can’t fool around like this any-
more. All this chitter-chatter on the
other side is nothing but chitter-chat-
ter saying nothing, absolutely nothing.
Open the government, to the White
House, and open it now.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time to close.
Mr. Speaker, I was amused—and I ac-
tually mean this in very good spirit—
when my friend mentioned how fre-
quently he had been quoted in today’s
debate, and I have to say I consider my
friend one of the great debaters in this
Chamber, and I enjoy hearing him
quoted on the floor of the House. So I
accept that, and I hope the gentleman
knows it was a compliment to him in
many ways.
I also want to tell him—and I mean
this very seriously—I take him at his
word. I don’t have any doubt my friend
wants to operate differently than we
have operated in the past and that he
wants this institution to be more open
to inclusion of various points of view
and very sincere debate, and I pledge to
my friend I will work with him in that
endeavor.
Now, it is hard to resist pointing out
the gentleman’s first six bills have all
been under closed rules. I suspect we
will continue to point that out until we
have an opportunity to say to my good
friend—and I think we will in the very
near future—‘‘Congratulations, you are
following through on the things that
you said.’’ Again, I know my friend will
do that at what he considers and the
majority considers the appropriate
time.
We have a lot of discussion, Mr.
Speaker, about who did and didn’t do
their jobs in the last Congress. I would
tell you, in my view, that the House
did its job. It passed its bills. It sent to
the Senate a product that the Presi-
dent would sign.
Mr. Speaker, I would tell you, you
are doing your job here, as well, right
now in the majority. You passed bills
last week. You sent them over to the
United States Senate.
In our case, the minority in the Sen-
ate blocked consideration of our bills.
Had those bills been placed on the
floor, we wouldn’t be here today. They
would have all passed. They had major-
ity support in the Senate; they had a
President willing to sign them; and
they had already passed the House.
The only reason why we are here
today is because the Democratic mi-
nority in the Senate manipulated the
rules of the Senate in such a way that
they could stop action. I suspect we all
have had frustration with that as
House Members in the past. I think we
will again in the future.
I also want to reflect with my
friends, and I draw this conclusion not
so much out of their actions, but ac-
tions that my own party, from time to
time, has committed, and I suspect I
will say this to this Chamber many
times: Pursuit of absolute victory in
domestic political disputes is always a
mistake. It always leaves a divided
country and an embittered opponent,
and you will rue the day when you pur-
sue it. We have certainly done that,
Mr. Speaker, on my side of the aisle.
I think that, to some degree, though,
is what is going on today. Sooner or
later—and we are going to live with a
Republican Senate for the next 2 years
and a Republican President for the
next 2 years—my friends in the major-
ity will have to decide whether they
want to govern or debate, because that
is all we are doing now.
Mr. Speaker, you are not the opposi-
tion party anymore. You are the ma-
jority party, and you have every right
to pursue your agenda. But if you real-
ly want to govern, if you really want to
get something done, in the end, you are
going to have to work with the Repub-
lican Senate, and you are going to have
to work with the Republican President.
We learned that hard reality when we
were in the majority but dealing with a
Democratic Senate and a Democratic
President in 2011 through 2014. I hope
my friends learn the lesson more
quickly and become wiser than we
were. I hope they benefit from our ex-
perience.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I urge oppo-
sition to this rule and the underlying
measure. The majority today is putting
forward a closed rule to bring up four
appropriations bills, each of which the
House has already passed last week.
But, unfortunately, each of these
bills is not a product of the House of
Representatives. These bills are Senate
products that do not reflect any House
input. What is worse, they do not solve
the fundamental problem of border se-
curity, and they do not represent a se-
rious effort to reopen the government.
Since the Senate will not pass these
bills and the President will not sign
them, all we are accomplishing here
today is spinning our wheels. The ma-
jority would be better served to under-
take serious negotiations with the
President and the Senate over the need
for border security and to find a way
out of the crisis of their own making
rather than hoping that something will
be different this time.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ on the
previous question, ‘‘no’’ on the under-
lying measure, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, let me say to my friend
from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE) that I think
he is one of the best Members of this
Chamber. I admire him, and I think
that he is absolutely right when he
says that the Appropriations Com-
mittee did its work, and that goes for
Republicans and Democrats. People
worked together, and they moved ap-
propriations bills forward. So I find no
fault with and I have no blame for the
appropriators.
What I do blame is his leadership
that, at the last minute, when the
President decided to have a temper
tantrum and threatened to shut the
government down, the Republican lead-
ership was complicit, basically, and
said: We will go along with this. And
here we are.
By the way, I can’t wait to get this
over with so we can get on to other
business. By the way, we are going to
bring up the disaster appropriations
bill next week. We have a notice out
asking for amendments. I think the
deadline is on Friday at noon. I can’t
recall the last time a disaster appro-
priations bill ever solicited amend-
ments. We are going to do that. But I
appreciate his words.
Mr. Speaker, this is an emergency.
We are now dealing with a major crisis
in this country, and it is not just Fed-
eral workers. USA Today reported last
week: ‘‘Government shutdown 2019:
Homebuyers with USDA mortgages
can’t close on house sales.’’
Mr. Speaker, I include this article in
the RECORD.
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN 2019: HOMEBUYERS
WITH USDA MORTGAGES CAN’T CLOSE ON
HOUSE SALES
[From USA Today, Jan. 3, 2019]
(By Janna Herron)
Jordan and Tracey Smith of Madison,
Maine, were scheduled to close on their first
home on Friday. But the government shut-
down has gotten in the way.
The couple needs the U.S. Department of
Agriculture to help finalize their mortgage
that is guaranteed by the agency. But the
USDA’s operations have been closed for 13
days, so the couple and their five children re-
main in limbo.
‘‘We’re living out of boxes. We’re paying
our landlord on a week-to-week basis, but he
has people waiting to move in,’’ says Jordan
Smith, 32. ‘‘We just want to move and get
this process over with.’’
It’s the same for other borrowers who de-
pend on the USDA. The department pro-
vides—through private lenders—mortgages
with no down payment requirements and low
interest rates and fees to rural and suburban
homebuyers. It’s a small program, helping
just over 140,000 people to buy a home in 2017,
but is considered one of the best options
around if you’re eligible.
‘‘We just can’t close a USDA loan without
a commitment letter from them. ‘‘Your loan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.033 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H309
January 9, 2019
is at a standstill,’’ says Pava Leyrer, the
chief operating office of Northern Mortgage
Services in Grandville, Michigan. Leyrer’s
company is an approved USDA lender.
Leyrer is telling her affected clients to call
their representatives. Otherwise, they may
ultimately need to switch into a different
loan. ‘‘How long will the seller wait, espe-
cially if the sales contract expires?’’ she
says.
WAITING FOR REPAIR MONEY
In other cases, those who already have a
USDA mortgage are running into trouble.
Jenneffer Azcuy, a homeowner in Lynn
Haven, Florida, with a USDA mortgage, is
waiting to get the insurance money she
needs to repair her house after it was dam-
aged by Hurricane Michael in October.
‘‘Since my insurance repair check is over
$7,500, the USDA controls the disbursement
of funds,’’ Azcuy says ‘‘But the money is tied
up.’’
On mortgages it guarantees, the USDA re-
quires that it oversees how insurance claims
funds are used to make sure they are spent
properly. When insured losses exceed $7,500,
the agency requires the funds to be deposited
into an escrow account it controls.
Azcuy has a contractor lined up to repair
her leaky roof, replace a fence, and fix the
gutters and outside doors. She has called the
USDA for help but can’t leave messages be-
cause the voicemail is full.
‘‘It’s ridiculous. This town is devastated as
it is from the hurricane,’’ she says.
WHAT ABOUT OTHER MORTGAGES?
The other mortgages backed by the gov-
ernment are unaffected so far by the shut-
down. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Vet-
erans Administration—which all back home
loans—are running as normal.
The Federal Housing Administration,
which guarantees mortgages popular among
first-time homebuyers, is operating with a
smaller staff because of the shutdown but is
still approving loans.
‘‘You can get some answers,’’ Leyrer says,
but adds: ‘‘They are slower to respond, and it
takes longer to get through on the phone be-
cause of limited staff.’’
Lenders are also working around other
shutdown-induced hiccups.
For instance, they can’t verify a person’s
tax information with the Internal Revenue
Service, which has limited services. As a re-
sult, many lenders are still approving those
loans conditionally and will confirm the in-
formation later when the IRS reopens, says
John Stearns, a loan originator with Amer-
ican Fidelity Mortgage Services in Mequon,
Wisconsin.
‘‘If there is a problem, then I have to figure
it out then,’’ Stearns says.
ON CAPITOL HILL
Azcuy and the Smiths hope the new House
of Representatives convening on Thursday
can end the shutdown. Democratic House
leaders have scheduled votes on a package of
bills to reopen the federal government and
provide more time for Congress to negotiate
a border funding deal with the White House.
Until then, they wait.
‘‘My wife and I support Donald Trump. We
agree with border security,’’ Jordan Smith
says. ‘‘But he has to look and see that this
is affecting other people’s lives.’’
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, the
article reports on the situation of Jor-
dan and Tracey Smith of Madison,
Maine, and their five children. They
were scheduled to close on their very
first home last Friday, but this ridicu-
lous Trump shutdown ruined that.
They need the Department of Agri-
culture to finalize their mortgage, but
USDA has been closed for weeks.
Here is what Mr. Smith said: ‘‘We’re
living out of boxes. ‘‘We’re paying our
landlord on a week-to-week basis, but
he has people waiting to move in.’’
So lives are being thrown into tur-
moil, and we don’t have a lot of time to
just carry on these conversations and
endless debates. This is a time for ac-
tion.
This is the first time a prior Congress
ended in a government shutdown. It is
fitting. It is almost like an excla-
mation point to the President’s first 2
years in office.
But it is a new Congress, and we are
ready to responsibly clean up this mess
and do what the last Congress could
not do. We are offering an extremely
reasonable solution to this unnecessary
government shutdown. The underlying
legislation is virtually identical to the
four appropriations bills that already
passed the Senate, 92–6.
Compare that to what the prior Re-
publican majority put forward in the
waning days of last Congress. They
passed a partisan funding bill with bil-
lions of dollars for the President’s wall,
legislation they knew Democrats would
never support and that the Senate
would never pass. Then they left town.
They refused to even recognize me
when I tried again and again to bring
up a bipartisan bill to end the shut-
down.
800,000 workers stopped receiving
paychecks. That includes, by the way,
thousands of border and law enforce-
ment officers, more than 41,000 Federal
law enforcement officers, people like
FBI agents and DEA agents, nearly
54,000 Customs and Border Patrol
agents and Customs officers, and al-
most 90 percent of the Department of
Homeland Security employees.
This Trump shutdown is an embar-
rassment. We owe our Federal employ-
ees and all Americans better than this.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to vote for this rule and the previous
question and join with us in supporting
these underlying bipartisan funding
bills. This is another chance for us to
do the right thing. Let’s take it and
bring an end to this unnecessary and
painful Trump shutdown.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. COLE is as follows:
Strike sections 1 and 2 and insert the fol-
lowing (and redesignate the subsequent sec-
tion accordingly):
That immediately upon adoption of this
resolution, the House shall resolve into the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union for consideration of the bill
(H.R. 264) making appropriations for finan-
cial services and general government for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes. The first reading of the bill
shall be dispensed with. All points of order
against consideration of the bill are waived.
General debate on the bill shall be confined
to the bill and shall not exceed one hour
equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations or their respective
designees. After general debate the bill shall
be considered for amendment under the five-
minute rule. Points of order against provi-
sions in the bill for failure to comply with
clause 2 of rule XXI are waived. During con-
sideration of the bill for amendment, the
chair of the Committee of the Whole may ac-
cord priority in recognition on the basis of
whether the Member offering an amendment
has caused it to be printed in the portion of
the Congressional Record designated for that
purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amend-
ments so printed shall be considered as read.
When the committee rises and reports the
bill back to the House with a recommenda-
tion that the bill do pass, the previous ques-
tion shall be considered as ordered on the
bill and amendments thereto to final passage
without intervening motion except one mo-
tion to recommit with or without instruc-
tions. If the Committee of the Whole rises
and reports that it has come to no resolution
on the bill, then on the next legislative day
the House shall, immediately after the third
daily order of business under clause 1 of rule
XIV, resolve into the Committee of the
Whole for further consideration of the bill.
Sec. 2. Immediately upon disposition of
H.R. 264, the House shall resolve into the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union for consideration of the bill
(H.R. 265) making appropriations for Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, and Related Agencies pro-
grams for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2019, and for other purposes. The first
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with.
All points of order against consideration of
the bill are waived. General debate on the
bill shall be confined to the bill and shall not
exceed one hour equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Appropriations
or their respective designees. After general
debate the bill shall be considered for
amendment under the five-minute rule.
Points of order against provisions in the bill
for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule
XXI are waived. During consideration of the
bill for amendment, the chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole may accord priority in
recognition on the basis of whether the
Member offering an amendment has caused
it to be printed in the portion of the Con-
gressional Record designated for that pur-
pose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments
so printed shall be considered as read. When
the committee rises and reports the bill back
to the House with a recommendation that
the bill do pass, the previous question shall
be considered as ordered on the bill and
amendments thereto to final passage with-
out intervening motion except one motion to
recommit with or without instructions. If
the Committee of the Whole rises and re-
ports that it has come to no resolution on
the bill, then on the next legislative day the
House shall, immediately after the third
daily order of business under clause 1 of rule
XIV, resolve into the Committee of the
Whole for further consideration of the bill.
Sec. 3. Immediately upon disposition of
H.R. 265, the House shall resolve into the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union for consideration of the bill
(H.R. 266) making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, environment, and
related agencies for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
The first reading of the bill shall be dis-
pensed with. All points of order against con-
sideration of the bill are waived. General de-
bate on the bill shall be confined to the bill
and shall not exceed one hour equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and rank-
ing minority member of the Committee on
Appropriations or their respective designees.
After general debate the bill shall be consid-
ered for amendment under the five-minute
rule. Points of order against provisions in
the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of
rule XXI are waived. During consideration of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.006 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H310 January 9, 2019
the bill for amendment, the chair of the
Committee of the Whole may accord priority
in recognition on the basis of whether the
Member offering an amendment has caused
it to be printed in the portion of the Con-
gressional Record designated for that pur-
pose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments
so printed shall be considered as read. When
the committee rises and reports the bill back
to the House with a recommendation that
the bill do pass, the previous question shall
be considered as ordered on the bill and
amendments thereto to final passage with-
out intervening motion except one motion to
recommit with or without instructions. If
the Committee of the Whole rises and re-
ports that it has come to no resolution on
the bill, then on the next legislative day the
House shall, immediately after the third
daily order of business under clause 1 of rule
XIV, resolve into the Committee of the
Whole for further consideration of the bill.
Sec. 4. Immediately upon disposition of
H.R. 266, the House shall resolve into the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union for consideration of the bill
(H.R. 267) making appropriations for the De-
partment of Transportation, and Housing
and Urban Development, and related agen-
cies for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes. The first read-
ing of the bill shall be dispensed with. All
points of order against consideration of the
bill are waived. General debate on the bill
shall be confined to the bill and shall not ex-
ceed one hour equally divided and controlled
by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on Appropriations or their
respective designees. After general debate
the bill shall be considered for amendment
under the five-minute rule. Points of order
against provisions in the bill for failure to
comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are waived.
During consideration of the bill for amend-
ment, the chair of the Committee of the
Whole may accord priority in recognition on
the basis of whether the Member offering an
amendment has caused it to be printed in the
portion of the Congressional Record des-
ignated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule
XVIII. Amendments so printed shall be con-
sidered as read. When the committee rises
and reports the bill back to the House with
a recommendation that the bill do pass, the
previous question shall be considered as or-
dered on the bill and amendments thereto to
final passage without intervening motion ex-
cept one motion to recommit with or with-
out instructions. If the Committee of the
Whole rises and reports that it has come to
no resolution on the bill, then on the next
legislative day the House shall, immediately
after the third daily order of business under
clause 1 of rule XIV, resolve into the Com-
mittee of the Whole for further consideration
of the bill.
Sec. 5. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of any bill re-
ferred to in sections 1 through 4 of this reso-
lution.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the res-
olution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on ordering the previous
question will be followed by 5-minute
votes on:
Adoption of the resolution, if or-
dered; and
The motion to suspend the rules on
H.R. 226, by the yeas and nays.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 231, nays
195, not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 16]
YEAS—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—195
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—7
Buck
DeFazio
Frankel
Hastings
Jones
Kelly (PA)
Mast
b 1352
Mrs. HARTZLER and Mr. FORTEN-
BERRY changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’
to ‘‘nay.’’
Mses. SANCHEZ, JACKSON LEE,
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Mr.
BEYER changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’
to ‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
WELCH). The question is on the resolu-
tion.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 231, nays
195, not voting 7, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:47 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H09JA9.REC H09JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H311
January 9, 2019
[Roll No. 17]
YEAS—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—195
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—7
Buck
DeFazio
Frankel
Hastings
Jones
Kelly (PA)
Mast
b 1403
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CLARITY ON SMALL BUSINESS
PARTICIPATION IN CATEGORY
MANAGEMENT ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 226) to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to include best in class des-
ignations in the annual report on small
business goals prepared by the Admin-
istrator of the Small Business Admin-
istration, and for other purposes, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 414, nays 11,
not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 18]
YEAS—414
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:50 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H09JA9.REC H09JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H312 January 9, 2019
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—11
Amash
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Cline
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gosar
King (IA)
Roy
Spano
Steube
NOT VOTING—8
Buck
DeFazio
Frankel
Hastings
Jones
Kelly (PA)
Mast
Rooney (FL)
b 1413
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ELECTING MEMBERS TO CERTAIN
STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, by direc-
tion of the Republican Conference, I
offer a privileged resolution and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 32
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and are hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing committees of the House of Rep-
resentatives:
COMMITTEE ON ETHICS: Mr. Marchant.
COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION: Mr.
Rodney Davis of Illinois.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GEN-
ERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, pursuant
to House Resolution 28, I call up the
bill (H.R. 264) making appropriations
for financial services and general gov-
ernment for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes,
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 28, the bill is
considered read.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 264
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That the following sums
are appropriated, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for fi-
nancial services and general government for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and
for other purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Depart-
mental Offices including operation and
maintenance of the Treasury Building and
Freedman’s Bank Building; hire of passenger
motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and
improvements of, and purchase of commer-
cial insurance policies for, real properties
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for
the performance of official business; execu-
tive direction program activities; inter-
national affairs and economic policy activi-
ties; domestic finance and tax policy activi-
ties, including technical assistance to Puerto
Rico; and Treasury-wide management poli-
cies and programs activities, $208,751,000:
Provided, That of the amount appropriated
under this heading—
(1) not to exceed $700,000 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses, of
which necessary amounts shall be available
for expenses to support activities of the Fi-
nancial Action Task Force, and not to ex-
ceed $350,000 shall be for other official recep-
tion and representation expenses;
(2) not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen
emergencies of a confidential nature to be
allocated and expended under the direction
of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be
accounted for solely on the Secretary’s cer-
tificate; and
(3) not to exceed $24,000,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2020, for—
(A) the Treasury-wide Financial Statement
Audit and Internal Control Program;
(B) information technology modernization
requirements;
(C) the audit, oversight, and administra-
tion of the Gulf Coast Restoration Trust
Fund;
(D) the development and implementation
of programs within the Office of Critical In-
frastructure Protection and Compliance Pol-
icy, including entering into cooperative
agreements;
(E) operations and maintenance of facili-
ties; and
(F) international operations.
OFFICE OF TERRORISM AND FINANCIAL
INTELLIGENCE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the necessary expenses of the Office of
Terrorism and Financial Intelligence to safe-
guard the financial system against illicit use
and to combat rogue nations, terrorist
facilitators, weapons of mass destruction
proliferators, money launderers, drug king-
pins, and other national security threats,
$159,000,000: Provided, That of the amount ap-
propriated under this heading: (1) up to
$33,500,000 may be transferred to the Depart-
mental Offices Salaries and Expenses appro-
priation and shall be available for adminis-
trative support to the Office of Terrorism
and Financial Intelligence; and (2) up to
$10,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided further, That of the
amount appropriated under this heading, not
less than $1,000,000 shall be used to support
and augment new and ongoing investigations
into the illicit trade of synthetic opioids,
particularly fentanyl and its analogues, orig-
inating from the People’s Republic of China:
Provided further, That not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of the Treasury, in coordina-
tion with the Administrator of the Drug En-
forcement Administration and the heads of
other Federal agencies, as appropriate, shall
submit a comprehensive report (which shall
be submitted in unclassified form, but may
include a classified annex) summarizing ef-
forts by actors in the People’s Republic of
China to subvert United States laws and to
supply illicit synthetic opioids to persons in
the United States, including up-to-date esti-
mates of the scale of illicit synthetic opioids
flows from the People’s Republic of China, to
the Committee on Appropriations, the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, and the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Ap-
propriations, the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs, and the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs of the Senate.
CYBERSECURITY ENHANCEMENT ACCOUNT
For salaries and expenses for enhanced cy-
bersecurity for systems operated by the De-
partment of the Treasury, $25,208,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided, That such funds shall supplement and
not supplant any other amounts made avail-
able to the Treasury offices and bureaus for
cybersecurity: Provided further, That the
Chief Information Officer of the individual
offices and bureaus shall submit a spend plan
for each investment to the Treasury Chief
Information Officer for approval: Provided
further, That the submitted spend plan shall
be reviewed and approved by the Treasury
Chief Information Officer prior to the obliga-
tion of funds under this heading: Provided
further, That of the total amount made avail-
able under this heading $1,000,000 shall be
available for administrative expenses for the
Treasury Chief Information Officer to pro-
vide oversight of the investments made
under this heading: Provided further, That
such funds shall supplement and not sup-
plant any other amounts made available to
the Treasury Chief Information Officer.
DEPARTMENT-WIDE SYSTEMS AND CAPITAL
INVESTMENTS PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For development and acquisition of auto-
matic data processing equipment, software,
and services and for repairs and renovations
to buildings owned by the Department of the
Treasury, $4,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That these
funds shall be transferred to accounts and in
amounts as necessary to satisfy the require-
ments of the Department’s offices, bureaus,
and other organizations: Provided further,
That this transfer authority shall be in addi-
tion to any other transfer authority provided
in this Act: Provided further, That none of
the funds appropriated under this heading
shall be used to support or supplement ‘‘In-
ternal Revenue Service, Operations Support’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.010 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H313
January 9, 2019
or ‘‘Internal Revenue Service, Business Sys-
tems Modernization’’.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$37,044,000, including hire of passenger motor
vehicles; of which not to exceed $100,000 shall
be available for unforeseen emergencies of a
confidential nature, to be allocated and ex-
pended under the direction of the Inspector
General of the Treasury; of which up to
$2,800,000 to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, shall be for audits and inves-
tigations conducted pursuant to section 1608
of the Resources and Ecosystems Sustain-
ability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived
Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of
2012 (33 U.S.C. 1321 note); and of which not to
exceed $1,000 shall be available for official re-
ception and representation expenses.
TREASURY INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR TAX
ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Treasury In-
spector General for Tax Administration in
carrying out the Inspector General Act of
1978, as amended, including purchase and
hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C.
1343(b)); and services authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, at such rates as may be determined by
the Inspector General for Tax Administra-
tion; $169,634,000, of which $5,000,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020; of
which not to exceed $6,000,000 shall be avail-
able for official travel expenses; of which not
to exceed $500,000 shall be available for un-
foreseen emergencies of a confidential na-
ture, to be allocated and expended under the
direction of the Inspector General for Tax
Administration; and of which not to exceed
$1,500 shall be available for official reception
and representation expenses.
SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE
TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Special Inspector General in carrying out
the provisions of the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–
343), $17,500,000.
FINANCIAL CRIMES ENFORCEMENT NETWORK
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles; travel and
training expenses of non-Federal and foreign
government personnel to attend meetings
and training concerned with domestic and
foreign financial intelligence activities, law
enforcement, and financial regulation; serv-
ices authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; not to ex-
ceed $10,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; and for assistance to
Federal law enforcement agencies, with or
without reimbursement, $117,800,000, of
which not to exceed $34,335,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2021.
BUREAU OF THE FISCAL SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of operations of the
Bureau of the Fiscal Service, $338,280,000; of
which not to exceed $4,210,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, is for in-
formation systems modernization initia-
tives; and of which $5,000 shall be available
for official reception and representation ex-
penses.
In addition, $165,000, to be derived from the
Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to reimburse
administrative and personnel expenses for fi-
nancial management of the Fund, as author-
ized by section 1012 of Public Law 101–380.
ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO TAX AND TRADE
BUREAU
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of carrying out sec-
tion 1111 of the Homeland Security Act of
2002, including hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles, $111,439,000; of which not to exceed $6,000
for official reception and representation ex-
penses; not to exceed $50,000 for cooperative
research and development programs for lab-
oratory services; and provision of laboratory
assistance to State and local agencies with
or without reimbursement: Provided, That of
the amount appropriated under this heading,
$5,000,000 shall be for the costs of accel-
erating the processing of formula and label
applications: Provided further, That of the
amount appropriated under this heading,
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
UNITED STATES MINT
UNITED STATES MINT PUBLIC ENTERPRISE FUND
Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United
States Code, the United States Mint is pro-
vided funding through the United States
Mint Public Enterprise Fund for costs asso-
ciated with the production of circulating
coins, numismatic coins, and protective
services, including both operating expenses
and capital investments: Provided, That the
aggregate amount of new liabilities and obli-
gations incurred during fiscal year 2019
under such section 5136 for circulating coin-
age and protective service capital invest-
ments of the United States Mint shall not
exceed $30,000,000.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS FUND PROGRAM ACCOUNT
To carry out the Riegle Community Devel-
opment and Regulatory Improvements Act of
1994 (subtitle A of title I of Public Law 103–
325), including services authorized by section
3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at
rates for individuals not to exceed the per
diem rate equivalent to the rate for EX–3,
$250,000,000. Of the amount appropriated
under this heading—
(1) not less than $182,000,000, notwith-
standing section 108(e) of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(e)) with regard to Small and/
or Emerging Community Development Fi-
nancial Institutions Assistance awards, is
available until September 30, 2020, for finan-
cial assistance and technical assistance
under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section
108(a)(1), respectively, of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(a)(1)(A) and (B)), of which up
to $2,680,000 may be used for the cost of di-
rect loans: Provided, That the cost of direct
and guaranteed loans, including the cost of
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974: Provided further, That these funds are
available to subsidize gross obligations for
the principal amount of direct loans not to
exceed $25,000,000;
(2) not less than $16,000,000, notwith-
standing section 108(e) of Public Law 103–325
(12 U.S.C. 4707(e)), is available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for financial assistance,
technical assistance, training, and outreach
programs designed to benefit Native Amer-
ican, Native Hawaiian, and Alaska Native
communities and provided primarily through
qualified community development lender or-
ganizations with experience and expertise in
community development banking and lend-
ing in Indian country, Native American or-
ganizations, tribes and tribal organizations,
and other suitable providers;
(3) not less than $25,000,000 is available
until September 30, 2020, for the Bank Enter-
prise Award program;
(4) up to $27,000,000 is available until Sep-
tember 30, 2019, for administrative expenses,
including administration of CDFI fund pro-
grams and the New Markets Tax Credit Pro-
gram, of which not less than $1,000,000 is for
development of tools to better assess and in-
form CDFI investment performance, and up
to $300,000 is for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct loan program; and
(5) during fiscal year 2019, none of the
funds available under this heading are avail-
able for the cost, as defined in section 502 of
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of com-
mitments to guarantee bonds and notes
under section 114A of the Riegle Community
Development and Regulatory Improvement
Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4713a): Provided, That
commitments to guarantee bonds and notes
under such section 114A shall not exceed
$500,000,000: Provided further, That such sec-
tion 114A shall remain in effect until Decem-
ber 31, 2019: Provided further, That of the
funds awarded under this heading, not less
than 10 percent shall be used for awards that
support investments that serve populations
living in persistent poverty counties: Pro-
vided further, That for the purposes of this
section, the term ‘‘persistent poverty coun-
ties’’ means any county that has had 20 per-
cent or more of its population living in pov-
erty over the past 30 years, as measured by
the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and the
2011–2015 5-year data series available from
the American Community Survey of the Cen-
sus Bureau.
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
TAXPAYER SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service to provide taxpayer serv-
ices, including pre-filing assistance and edu-
cation, filing and account services, taxpayer
advocacy services, and other services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as
may be determined by the Commissioner,
$2,506,554,000, of which not less than $9,890,000
shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elder-
ly Program, of which not less than $12,000,000
shall be available for low-income taxpayer
clinic grants, of which not less than
$20,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, shall be available for a Com-
munity Volunteer Income Tax Assistance
matching grants program for tax return
preparation assistance, and of which not less
than $206,000,000 shall be available for oper-
ating expenses of the Taxpayer Advocate
Service: Provided, That of the amounts made
available for the Taxpayer Advocate Service,
not less than $5,500,000 shall be for identity
theft and refund fraud casework.
ENFORCEMENT
For necessary expenses for tax enforce-
ment activities of the Internal Revenue
Service to determine and collect owed taxes,
to provide legal and litigation support, to
conduct criminal investigations, to enforce
criminal statutes related to violations of in-
ternal revenue laws and other financial
crimes, to purchase and hire passenger
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to pro-
vide other services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, at such rates as may be determined by
the Commissioner, $4,860,000,000, of which not
to exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2020, and of which not
less than $60,257,000 shall be for the Inter-
agency Crime and Drug Enforcement pro-
gram.
OPERATIONS SUPPORT
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service to support taxpayer serv-
ices and enforcement programs, including
rent payments; facilities services; printing;
postage; physical security; headquarters and
other IRS-wide administration activities; re-
search and statistics of income; tele-
communications; information technology de-
velopment, enhancement, operations, main-
tenance, and security; the hire of passenger
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H314 January 9, 2019
motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); the oper-
ations of the Internal Revenue Service Over-
sight Board; and other services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be de-
termined by the Commissioner; $3,709,000,000,
of which not to exceed $50,000,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020; of
which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall remain
available until expended for acquisition of
equipment and construction, repair and ren-
ovation of facilities; of which not to exceed
$1,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for research; of which not to
exceed $20,000 shall be for official reception
and representation expenses: Provided, That
not later than 30 days after the end of each
quarter, the Internal Revenue Service shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate and the Comptroller General
of the United States detailing the cost and
schedule performance for its major informa-
tion technology investments, including the
purpose and life-cycle stages of the invest-
ments; the reasons for any cost and schedule
variances; the risks of such investments and
strategies the Internal Revenue Service is
using to mitigate such risks; and the ex-
pected developmental milestones to be
achieved and costs to be incurred in the next
quarter: Provided further, That the Internal
Revenue Service shall include, in its budget
justification for fiscal year 2020, a summary
of cost and schedule performance informa-
tion for its major information technology
systems.
BUSINESS SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION
For necessary expenses of the Internal
Revenue Service’s business systems mod-
ernization program, $110,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2021, for the
capital asset acquisition of information
technology systems, including management
and related contractual costs of said acquisi-
tions, including related Internal Revenue
Service labor costs, and contractual costs as-
sociated with operations authorized by 5
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That not later than 30
days after the end of each quarter, the Inter-
nal Revenue Service shall submit a report to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate and
the Comptroller General of the United States
detailing the cost and schedule performance
for major information technology invest-
ments, including the purposes and life-cycle
stages of the investments; the reasons for
any cost and schedule variances; the risks of
such investments and the strategies the In-
ternal Revenue Service is using to mitigate
such risks; and the expected developmental
milestones to be achieved and costs to be in-
curred in the next quarter.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—INTERNAL
REVENUE SERVICE
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
SEC. 101. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available in this Act to the
Internal Revenue Service may be transferred
to any other Internal Revenue Service appro-
priation upon the advance approval of the
Committees on Appropriations.
SEC. 102. The Internal Revenue Service
shall maintain an employee training pro-
gram, which shall include the following top-
ics: taxpayers’ rights, dealing courteously
with taxpayers, cross-cultural relations, eth-
ics, and the impartial application of tax law.
SEC. 103. The Internal Revenue Service
shall institute and enforce policies and pro-
cedures that will safeguard the confiden-
tiality of taxpayer information and protect
taxpayers against identity theft.
SEC. 104. Funds made available by this or
any other Act to the Internal Revenue Serv-
ice shall be available for improved facilities
and increased staffing to provide sufficient
and effective 1–800 help line service for tax-
payers. The Commissioner shall continue to
make improvements to the Internal Revenue
Service 1–800 help line service a priority and
allocate resources necessary to enhance the
response time to taxpayer communications,
particularly with regard to victims of tax-re-
lated crimes.
SEC. 105. None of the funds made available
to the Internal Revenue Service by this Act
may be used to make a video unless the
Service-Wide Video Editorial Board deter-
mines in advance that making the video is
appropriate, taking into account the cost,
topic, tone, and purpose of the video.
SEC. 106. The Internal Revenue Service
shall issue a notice of confirmation of any
address change relating to an employer mak-
ing employment tax payments, and such no-
tice shall be sent to both the employer’s
former and new address and an officer or em-
ployee of the Internal Revenue Service shall
give special consideration to an offer-in-com-
promise from a taxpayer who has been the
victim of fraud by a third party payroll tax
preparer.
SEC. 107. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used by the Internal
Revenue Service to target citizens of the
United States for exercising any right guar-
anteed under the First Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
SEC. 108. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by the Internal Rev-
enue Service to target groups for regulatory
scrutiny based on their ideological beliefs.
SEC. 109. None of funds made available by
this Act to the Internal Revenue Service
shall be obligated or expended on con-
ferences that do not adhere to the proce-
dures, verification processes, documentation
requirements, and policies issued by the
Chief Financial Officer, Human Capital Of-
fice, and Agency-Wide Shared Services as a
result of the recommendations in the report
published on May 31, 2013, by the Treasury
Inspector General for Tax Administration
entitled ‘‘Review of the August 2010 Small
Business/Self-Employed Division’s Con-
ference in Anaheim, California’’ (Reference
Number 2013–10–037).
SEC. 110. None of the funds made available
in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service
may be obligated or expended—
(1) to make a payment to any employee
under a bonus, award, or recognition pro-
gram; or
(2) under any hiring or personnel selection
process with respect to re-hiring a former
employee, unless such program or process
takes into account the conduct and Federal
tax compliance of such employee or former
employee.
SEC. 111. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used in contravention of
section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (relating to confidentiality and disclo-
sure of returns and return information).
SEC. 112. Except to the extent provided in
section 6014, 6020, or 6201(d) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, no funds in this or any
other Act shall be available to the Secretary
of the Treasury to provide to any person a
proposed final return or statement for use by
such person to satisfy a filing or reporting
requirement under such Code.
SEC. 113. In addition to the amounts other-
wise made available in this Act for the Inter-
nal Revenue Service, $77,000,000, to be avail-
able until September 30, 2020, shall be trans-
ferred by the Commissioner to the ‘‘Tax-
payer Services’’, ‘‘Enforcement’’, or ‘‘Oper-
ations Support’’ accounts of the Internal
Revenue Service for an additional amount to
be used solely for carrying out Public Law
115–97: Provided, That such funds shall not be
available until the Commissioner submits to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
spending plan for such funds.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT
OF THE TREASURY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
SEC. 114. Appropriations to the Department
of the Treasury in this Act shall be available
for uniforms or allowances therefor, as au-
thorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including
maintenance, repairs, and cleaning; purchase
of insurance for official motor vehicles oper-
ated in foreign countries; purchase of motor
vehicles without regard to the general pur-
chase price limitations for vehicles pur-
chased and used overseas for the current fis-
cal year; entering into contracts with the
Department of State for the furnishing of
health and medical services to employees
and their dependents serving in foreign coun-
tries; and services authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109.
SEC. 115. Not to exceed 2 percent of any ap-
propriations in this title made available
under the headings ‘‘Departmental Offices—
Salaries and Expenses’’, ‘‘Office of Terrorism
and Financial Intelligence’’, ‘‘Office of In-
spector General’’, ‘‘Special Inspector General
for the Troubled Asset Relief Program’’, ‘‘Fi-
nancial Crimes Enforcement Network’’, ‘‘Bu-
reau of the Fiscal Service’’, and ‘‘Alcohol
and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau’’ may be
transferred between such appropriations
upon the advance approval of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate: Provided, That
no transfer under this section may increase
or decrease any such appropriation by more
than 2 percent.
SEC. 116. Not to exceed 2 percent of any ap-
propriation made available in this Act to the
Internal Revenue Service may be transferred
to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax
Administration’s appropriation upon the ad-
vance approval of the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided, That no transfer
may increase or decrease any such appro-
priation by more than 2 percent.
SEC. 117. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act or otherwise available to the De-
partment of the Treasury or the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing may be used to rede-
sign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
SEC. 118. The Secretary of the Treasury
may transfer funds from the ‘‘Bureau of the
Fiscal Service-Salaries and Expenses’’ to the
Debt Collection Fund as necessary to cover
the costs of debt collection: Provided, That
such amounts shall be reimbursed to such
salaries and expenses account from debt col-
lections received in the Debt Collection
Fund.
SEC. 119. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be used by the United States
Mint to construct or operate any museum
without the explicit approval of the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate, the House Com-
mittee on Financial Services, and the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
SEC. 120. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act or source to the Department of the
Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing, and the United States Mint, indi-
vidually or collectively, may be used to con-
solidate any or all functions of the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing and the United
States Mint without the explicit approval of
the House Committee on Financial Services;
the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs; and the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H315
January 9, 2019
SEC. 121. Funds appropriated by this Act,
or made available by the transfer of funds in
this Act, for the Department of the Treas-
ury’s intelligence or intelligence related ac-
tivities are deemed to be specifically author-
ized by the Congress for purposes of section
504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 2019 until the
enactment of the Intelligence Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2019.
SEC. 122. Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made
available from the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing’s Industrial Revolving Fund for
necessary official reception and representa-
tion expenses.
SEC. 123. The Secretary of the Treasury
shall submit a Capital Investment Plan to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
Senate and the House of Representatives not
later than 30 days following the submission
of the annual budget submitted by the Presi-
dent: Provided, That such Capital Investment
Plan shall include capital investment spend-
ing from all accounts within the Department
of the Treasury, including but not limited to
the Department-wide Systems and Capital
Investment Programs account, Treasury
Franchise Fund account, and the Treasury
Forfeiture Fund account: Provided further,
That such Capital Investment Plan shall in-
clude expenditures occurring in previous fis-
cal years for each capital investment project
that has not been fully completed.
SEC. 124. Within 45 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall submit an itemized report to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate on
the amount of total funds charged to each of-
fice by the Franchise Fund including the
amount charged for each service provided by
the Franchise Fund to each office, a detailed
description of the services, a detailed expla-
nation of how each charge for each service is
calculated, and a description of the role cus-
tomers have in governing in the Franchise
Fund.
SEC. 125. During fiscal year 2019—
(1) none of the funds made available in this
or any other Act may be used by the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, including the Internal
Revenue Service, to issue, revise, or finalize
any regulation, revenue ruling, or other
guidance not limited to a particular tax-
payer relating to the standard which is used
to determine whether an organization is op-
erated exclusively for the promotion of so-
cial welfare for purposes of section 501(c)(4)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (includ-
ing the proposed regulations published at 78
Fed. Reg. 71535 (November 29, 2013)); and
(2) the standard and definitions as in effect
on January 1, 2010, which are used to make
such determinations shall apply after the
date of the enactment of this Act for pur-
poses of determining status under section
501(c)(4) of such Code of organizations cre-
ated on, before, or after such date.
SEC. 126. (a) Not later than 60 days after
the end of each quarter, the Office of Finan-
cial Stability and the Office of Financial Re-
search shall submit reports on their activi-
ties to the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate,
the Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives and the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
(b) The reports required under subsection
(a) shall include—
(1) the obligations made during the pre-
vious quarter by object class, office, and ac-
tivity;
(2) the estimated obligations for the re-
mainder of the fiscal year by object class, of-
fice, and activity;
(3) the number of full-time equivalents
within each office during the previous quar-
ter;
(4) the estimated number of full-time
equivalents within each office for the re-
mainder of the fiscal year; and
(5) actions taken to achieve the goals, ob-
jectives, and performance measures of each
office.
(c) At the request of any such Committees
specified in subsection (a), the Office of Fi-
nancial Stability and the Office of Financial
Research shall make officials available to
testify on the contents of the reports re-
quired under subsection (a).
SEC. 127. Amounts made available under
the heading ‘‘Office of Terrorism and Finan-
cial Intelligence’’ shall be available to reim-
burse the ‘‘Departmental Offices—Salaries
and Expenses’’ account for expenses incurred
in such account for reception and representa-
tion expenses to support activities of the Fi-
nancial Action Task Force.
SEC. 128. Amounts in the Bureau of Engrav-
ing and Printing Fund may be used for the
acquisition of necessary land for, and con-
struction of, a replacement currency produc-
tion facility.
SEC. 129. Not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network and the appro-
priate divisions of the Department of the
Treasury shall submit to Congress a report
on any Geographic Targeting Orders issued
since 2016, including—
(1) the type of data collected;
(2) how the Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network uses the data;
(3) whether the Financial Crimes Enforce-
ment Network needs more authority to com-
bat money laundering through high-end real
estate;
(4) how a record of beneficial ownership
would improve and assist law enforcement
efforts to investigate and prosecute criminal
activity and prevent the use of shell compa-
nies to facilitate money laundering, tax eva-
sion, terrorism financing, election fraud, and
other illegal activity; and
(5) the feasibility of implementing Geo-
graphic Targeting Orders on a permanent
basis on all real estate transactions in the
United States greater than $300,000.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of the Treasury Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE II
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE
PRESIDENT
THE WHITE HOUSE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the White
House as authorized by law, including not to
exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence ex-
penses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 105, which
shall be expended and accounted for as pro-
vided in that section; hire of passenger
motor vehicles, and travel (not to exceed
$100,000 to be expended and accounted for as
provided by 3 U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed
$19,000 for official reception and representa-
tion expenses, to be available for allocation
within the Executive Office of the President;
and for necessary expenses of the Office of
Policy Development, including services as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107,
$55,000,000.
EXECUTIVE RESIDENCE AT THE WHITE HOUSE
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Executive
Residence at the White House, $13,081,000, to
be expended and accounted for as provided by
3 U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112–114.
REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES
For the reimbursable expenses of the Exec-
utive Residence at the White House, such
sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all
reimbursable operating expenses of the Exec-
utive Residence shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of this paragraph: Pro-
vided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, such amount for re-
imbursable operating expenses shall be the
exclusive authority of the Executive Resi-
dence to incur obligations and to receive off-
setting collections, for such expenses: Pro-
vided further, That the Executive Residence
shall require each person sponsoring a reim-
bursable political event to pay in advance an
amount equal to the estimated cost of the
event, and all such advance payments shall
be credited to this account and remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
the Executive Residence shall require the na-
tional committee of the political party of
the President to maintain on deposit $25,000,
to be separately accounted for and available
for expenses relating to reimbursable polit-
ical events sponsored by such committee
during such fiscal year: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall ensure
that a written notice of any amount owed for
a reimbursable operating expense under this
paragraph is submitted to the person owing
such amount within 60 days after such ex-
pense is incurred, and that such amount is
collected within 30 days after the submission
of such notice: Provided further, That the Ex-
ecutive Residence shall charge interest and
assess penalties and other charges on any
such amount that is not reimbursed within
such 30 days, in accordance with the interest
and penalty provisions applicable to an out-
standing debt on a United States Govern-
ment claim under 31 U.S.C. 3717: Provided fur-
ther, That each such amount that is reim-
bursed, and any accompanying interest and
charges, shall be deposited in the Treasury
as miscellaneous receipts: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall prepare
and submit to the Committees on Appropria-
tions, by not later than 90 days after the end
of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a re-
port setting forth the reimbursable oper-
ating expenses of the Executive Residence
during the preceding fiscal year, including
the total amount of such expenses, the
amount of such total that consists of reim-
bursable official and ceremonial events, the
amount of such total that consists of reim-
bursable political events, and the portion of
each such amount that has been reimbursed
as of the date of the report: Provided further,
That the Executive Residence shall maintain
a system for the tracking of expenses related
to reimbursable events within the Executive
Residence that includes a standard for the
classification of any such expense as polit-
ical or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no
provision of this paragraph may be construed
to exempt the Executive Residence from any
other applicable requirement of subchapter I
or II of chapter 37 of title 31, United States
Code.
WHITE HOUSE REPAIR AND RESTORATION
For the repair, alteration, and improve-
ment of the Executive Residence at the
White House pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 105(d),
$750,000, to remain available until expended,
for required maintenance, resolution of safe-
ty and health issues, and continued prevent-
ative maintenance.
COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Council of
Economic Advisers in carrying out its func-
tions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15
U.S.C. 1021 et seq.), $4,187,000.
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL AND HOMELAND
SECURITY COUNCIL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the National Se-
curity Council and the Homeland Security
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H316 January 9, 2019
Council, including services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, $11,800,000.
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of Ad-
ministration, including services as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire
of passenger motor vehicles, $100,000,000, of
which not to exceed $12,800,000 shall remain
available until expended for continued mod-
ernization of information resources within
the Executive Office of the President.
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Management and Budget, including hire of
passenger motor vehicles and services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to carry out the
provisions of chapter 35 of title 44, United
States Code, and to prepare and submit the
budget of the United States Government, in
accordance with section 1105(a) of title 31,
United States Code, $101,000,000, of which not
to exceed $3,000 shall be available for official
representation expenses: Provided, That none
of the funds appropriated in this Act for the
Office of Management and Budget may be
used for the purpose of reviewing any agri-
cultural marketing orders or any activities
or regulations under the provisions of the
Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of
1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.): Provided further,
That none of the funds made available for
the Office of Management and Budget by this
Act may be expended for the altering of the
transcript of actual testimony of witnesses,
except for testimony of officials of the Office
of Management and Budget, before the Com-
mittees on Appropriations or their sub-
committees: Provided further, That none of
the funds made available for the Office of
Management and Budget by this Act may be
expended for the altering of the annual work
plan developed by the Corps of Engineers for
submission to the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That of the funds
made available for the Office of Management
and Budget by this Act, no less than three
full-time equivalent senior staff position
shall be dedicated solely to the Office of the
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordi-
nator: Provided further, That none of the
funds provided in this or prior Acts shall be
used, directly or indirectly, by the Office of
Management and Budget, for evaluating or
determining if water resource project or
study reports submitted by the Chief of En-
gineers acting through the Secretary of the
Army are in compliance with all applicable
laws, regulations, and requirements relevant
to the Civil Works water resource planning
process: Provided further, That the Office of
Management and Budget shall have not more
than 60 days in which to perform budgetary
policy reviews of water resource matters on
which the Chief of Engineers has reported:
Provided further, That the Director of the Of-
fice of Management and Budget shall notify
the appropriate authorizing and appro-
priating committees when the 60-day review
is initiated: Provided further, That if water
resource reports have not been transmitted
to the appropriate authorizing and appro-
priating committees within 15 days after the
end of the Office of Management and Budget
review period based on the notification from
the Director, Congress shall assume Office of
Management and Budget concurrence with
the report and act accordingly.
In addition, $2,000,000 for the Office of In-
formation and Regulatory Affairs to hire ad-
ditional personnel dedicated to regulatory
review and reforms: Provided, That these
amounts shall be in addition to any other
amounts available for such purpose: Provided
further, That these funds may not be used to
backfill vacancies.
OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy; for research ac-
tivities pursuant to the Office of National
Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of
2006 (Public Law 109–469); not to exceed
$10,000 for official reception and representa-
tion expenses; and for participation in joint
projects or in the provision of services on
matters of mutual interest with nonprofit,
research, or public organizations or agencies,
with or without reimbursement, $18,400,000:
Provided, That the Office is authorized to ac-
cept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both
real and personal, public and private, with-
out fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of
aiding or facilitating the work of the Office.
FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS
HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS
PROGRAM
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy’s High Intensity
Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $280,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2020,
for drug control activities consistent with
the approved strategy for each of the des-
ignated High Intensity Drug Trafficking
Areas (‘‘HIDTAs’’), of which not less than 51
percent shall be transferred to State and
local entities for drug control activities and
shall be obligated not later than 120 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided, That
up to 49 percent may be transferred to Fed-
eral agencies and departments in amounts
determined by the Director of the Office of
National Drug Control Policy, of which up to
$2,700,000 may be used for auditing services
and associated activities: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding the requirements of
Public Law 106–58, any unexpended funds ob-
ligated prior to fiscal year 2017 may be used
for any other approved activities of that
HIDTA, subject to reprogramming require-
ments: Provided further, That each HIDTA
designated as of September 30, 2018, shall be
funded at not less than the fiscal year 2018
base level, unless the Director submits to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate justifica-
tion for changes to those levels based on
clearly articulated priorities and published
Office of National Drug Control Policy per-
formance measures of effectiveness: Provided
further, That the Director shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations of the initial
allocation of fiscal year 2019 funding among
HIDTAs not later than 45 days after enact-
ment of this Act, and shall notify the Com-
mittees of planned uses of discretionary
HIDTA funding, as determined in consulta-
tion with the HIDTA Directors, not later
than 90 days after enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That upon a determination
that all or part of the funds so transferred
from this appropriation are not necessary for
the purposes provided herein and upon notifi-
cation to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate, such amounts may be transferred back
to this appropriation.
OTHER FEDERAL DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For other drug control activities author-
ized by the Office of National Drug Control
Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public
Law 109–469), $117,327,000, to remain available
until expended, which shall be available as
follows: $99,000,000 for the Drug-Free Commu-
nities Program, of which $2,000,000 shall be
made available as directed by section 4 of
Public Law 107–82, as amended by Public Law
109–469 (21 U.S.C. 1521 note); $2,000,000 for
drug court training and technical assistance;
$9,500,000 for anti-doping activities; $2,577,000
for the United States membership dues to
the World Anti-Doping Agency; and $1,250,000
shall be made available as directed by sec-
tion 1105 of Public Law 109–469; and $3,000,000,
to remain available until expended, shall be
for activities authorized by section 103 of
Public Law 114–198: Provided, That amounts
made available under this heading may be
transferred to other Federal departments
and agencies to carry out such activities.
UNANTICIPATED NEEDS
For expenses necessary to enable the Presi-
dent to meet unanticipated needs, in further-
ance of the national interest, security, or de-
fense which may arise at home or abroad
during the current fiscal year, as authorized
by 3 U.S.C. 108, $1,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OVERSIGHT AND
REFORM
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for the furtherance
of integrated, efficient, secure, and effective
uses of information technology in the Fed-
eral Government, $19,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That the Di-
rector of the Office of Management and
Budget may transfer these funds to one or
more other agencies to carry out projects to
meet these purposes.
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE TO THE PRESIDENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to enable the Vice
President to provide assistance to the Presi-
dent in connection with specially assigned
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, including subsistence
expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which
shall be expended and accounted for as pro-
vided in that section; and hire of passenger
motor vehicles, $4,288,000.
OFFICIAL RESIDENCE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT
OPERATING EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the care, operation, refurnishing, im-
provement, and to the extent not otherwise
provided for, heating and lighting, including
electric power and fixtures, of the official
residence of the Vice President; the hire of
passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed
$90,000 pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 106(b)(2), $302,000:
Provided, That advances, repayments, or
transfers from this appropriation may be
made to any department or agency for ex-
penses of carrying out such activities.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—EXECUTIVE OF-
FICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPRO-
PRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 201. From funds made available in this
Act under the headings ‘‘The White House’’,
‘‘Executive Residence at the White House’’,
‘‘White House Repair and Restoration’’,
‘‘Council of Economic Advisers’’, ‘‘National
Security Council and Homeland Security
Council’’, ‘‘Office of Administration’’, ‘‘Spe-
cial Assistance to the President’’, and ‘‘Offi-
cial Residence of the Vice President’’, the
Director of the Office of Management and
Budget (or such other officer as the Presi-
dent may designate in writing), may, with
advance approval of the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate, transfer not to exceed 10 per-
cent of any such appropriation to any other
such appropriation, to be merged with and
available for the same time and for the same
purposes as the appropriation to which
transferred: Provided, That the amount of an
appropriation shall not be increased by more
than 50 percent by such transfers: Provided
further, That no amount shall be transferred
from ‘‘Special Assistance to the President’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H317
January 9, 2019
or ‘‘Official Residence of the Vice President’’
without the approval of the Vice President.
SEC. 202. (a) During fiscal year 2019, any
Executive order or Presidential memo-
randum issued or revoked by the President
shall be accompanied by a written statement
from the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget on the budgetary impact,
including costs, benefits, and revenues, of
such order or memorandum.
(b) Any such statement shall include—
(1) a narrative summary of the budgetary
impact of such order or memorandum on the
Federal Government;
(2) the impact on mandatory and discre-
tionary obligations and outlays as the result
of such order or memorandum, listed by Fed-
eral agency, for each year in the 5-fiscal-year
period beginning in fiscal year 2019; and
(3) the impact on revenues of the Federal
Government as the result of such order or
memorandum over the 5-fiscal-year period
beginning in fiscal year 2019.
(c) If an Executive order or Presidential
memorandum is issued during fiscal year
2019 due to a national emergency, the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget
may issue the statement required by sub-
section (a) not later than 15 days after the
date that such order or memorandum is
issued.
(d) The requirement for cost estimates for
Presidential memoranda shall only apply for
Presidential memoranda estimated to have a
regulatory cost in excess of $100,000,000.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Executive
Office of the President Appropriations Act,
2019’’.
TITLE III
THE JUDICIARY
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary for the operation of
the Supreme Court, as required by law, ex-
cluding care of the building and grounds, in-
cluding hire of passenger motor vehicles as
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; not to
exceed $10,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; and for miscellaneous
expenses, to be expended as the Chief Justice
may approve, $84,703,000, of which $1,500,000
shall remain available until expended.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief justice and asso-
ciate justices of the court.
CARE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS
For such expenditures as may be necessary
to enable the Architect of the Capitol to
carry out the duties imposed upon the Archi-
tect by 40 U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $15,999,000, to
remain available until expended.
UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FEDERAL CIRCUIT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For salaries of officers and employees, and
for necessary expenses of the court, as au-
thorized by law, $32,016,000.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief judge and judges
of the court.
UNITED STATES COURT OF INTERNATIONAL
TRADE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For salaries of officers and employees of
the court, services, and necessary expenses
of the court, as authorized by law, $19,450,000.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of the chief judge and judges
of the court.
COURTS OF APPEALS, DISTRICT COURTS, AND
OTHER JUDICIAL SERVICES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the salaries of judges of the United
States Court of Federal Claims, magistrate
judges, and all other officers and employees
of the Federal Judiciary not otherwise spe-
cifically provided for, necessary expenses of
the courts, and the purchase, rental, repair,
and cleaning of uniforms for Probation and
Pretrial Services Office staff, as authorized
by law, $5,154,461,000 (including the purchase
of firearms and ammunition); of which not to
exceed $27,817,000 shall remain available
until expended for space alteration projects
and for furniture and furnishings related to
new space alteration and construction
projects.
In addition, there are appropriated such
sums as may be necessary under current law
for the salaries of circuit and district judges
(including judges of the territorial courts of
the United States), bankruptcy judges, and
justices and judges retired from office or
from regular active service.
In addition, for expenses of the United
States Court of Federal Claims associated
with processing cases under the National
Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public
Law 99–660), not to exceed $8,475,000, to be ap-
propriated from the Vaccine Injury Com-
pensation Trust Fund.
DEFENDER SERVICES
For the operation of Federal Defender or-
ganizations; the compensation and reim-
bursement of expenses of attorneys ap-
pointed to represent persons under 18 U.S.C.
3006A and 3599, and for the compensation and
reimbursement of expenses of persons fur-
nishing investigative, expert, and other serv-
ices for such representations as authorized
by law; the compensation (in accordance
with the maximums under 18 U.S.C. 3006A)
and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys
appointed to assist the court in criminal
cases where the defendant has waived rep-
resentation by counsel; the compensation
and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys
appointed to represent jurors in civil actions
for the protection of their employment, as
authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1875(d)(1); the com-
pensation and reimbursement of expenses of
attorneys appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1)
in connection with certain judicial civil for-
feiture proceedings; the compensation and
reimbursement of travel expenses of guard-
ians ad litem appointed under 18 U.S.C.
4100(b); and for necessary training and gen-
eral administrative expenses, $1,140,846,000 to
remain available until expended.
FEES OF JURORS AND COMMISSIONERS
For fees and expenses of jurors as author-
ized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 1876; compensation
of jury commissioners as authorized by 28
U.S.C. 1863; and compensation of commis-
sioners appointed in condemnation cases
pursuant to rule 71.1(h) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C. Appendix Rule
71.1(h)), $49,750,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the compensation
of land commissioners shall not exceed the
daily equivalent of the highest rate payable
under 5 U.S.C. 5332.
COURT SECURITY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, incident to the provision of protec-
tive guard services for United States court-
houses and other facilities housing Federal
court operations, and the procurement, in-
stallation, and maintenance of security sys-
tems and equipment for United States court-
houses and other facilities housing Federal
court operations, including building ingress-
egress control, inspection of mail and pack-
ages, directed security patrols, perimeter se-
curity, basic security services provided by
the Federal Protective Service, and other
similar activities as authorized by section
1010 of the Judicial Improvement and Access
to Justice Act (Public Law 100–702),
$604,460,000, of which not to exceed $20,000,000
shall remain available until expended, to be
expended directly or transferred to the
United States Marshals Service, which shall
be responsible for administering the Judicial
Facility Security Program consistent with
standards or guidelines agreed to by the Di-
rector of the Administrative Office of the
United States Courts and the Attorney Gen-
eral.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED
STATES COURTS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Administra-
tive Office of the United States Courts as au-
thorized by law, including travel as author-
ized by 31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger
motor vehicle as authorized by 31 U.S.C.
1343(b), advertising and rent in the District
of Columbia and elsewhere, $92,413,000, of
which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for
official reception and representation ex-
penses.
FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal Ju-
dicial Center, as authorized by Public Law
90–219, $29,819,000; of which $1,800,000 shall re-
main available through September 30, 2020,
to provide education and training to Federal
court personnel; and of which not to exceed
$1,500 is authorized for official reception and
representation expenses.
UNITED STATES SENTENCING COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For the salaries and expenses necessary to
carry out the provisions of chapter 58 of title
28, United States Code, $18,548,000, of which
not to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official
reception and representation expenses.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—THE JUDICIARY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 301. Appropriations and authoriza-
tions made in this title which are available
for salaries and expenses shall be available
for services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
SEC. 302. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may
be transferred between such appropriations,
but no such appropriation, except ‘‘Courts of
Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial
Services, Defender Services’’ and ‘‘Courts of
Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial
Services, Fees of Jurors and Commis-
sioners’’, shall be increased by more than 10
percent by any such transfers: Provided, That
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be
treated as a reprogramming of funds under
sections 604 and 608 of this Act and shall not
be available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in section 608.
SEC. 303. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the salaries and expenses appro-
priation for ‘‘Courts of Appeals, District
Courts, and Other Judicial Services’’ shall be
available for official reception and represen-
tation expenses of the Judicial Conference of
the United States: Provided, That such avail-
able funds shall not exceed $11,000 and shall
be administered by the Director of the Ad-
ministrative Office of the United States
Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the
Judicial Conference.
SEC. 304. Section 3315(a) of title 40, United
States Code, shall be applied by substituting
‘‘Federal’’ for ‘‘executive’’ each place it ap-
pears.
SEC. 305. In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561–
569, and notwithstanding any other provision
of law, the United States Marshals Service
shall provide, for such courthouses as its Di-
rector may designate in consultation with
the Director of the Administrative Office of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H318 January 9, 2019
the United States Courts, for purposes of a
pilot program, the security services that 40
U.S.C. 1315 authorizes the Department of
Homeland Security to provide, except for the
services specified in 40 U.S.C. 1315(b)(2)(E).
For building-specific security services at
these courthouses, the Director of the Ad-
ministrative Office of the United States
Courts shall reimburse the United States
Marshals Service rather than the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
SEC. 306. (a) Section 203(c) of the Judicial
Improvements Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–
650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended in the
matter following paragraph 12—
(1) in the second sentence (relating to the
District of Kansas), by striking ‘‘27 years and
6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘28 years and 6
months’’; and
(2) in the sixth sentence (relating to the
District of Hawaii), by striking ‘‘24 years and
6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘25 years and 6
months’’.
(b) Section 406 of the Transportation,
Treasury, Housing and Urban Development,
the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and
Independent Agencies Appropriations Act,
2006 (Public Law 109–115; 119 Stat. 2470; 28
U.S.C. 133 note) is amended in the second
sentence (relating to the eastern District of
Missouri) by striking ‘‘25 years and 6
months’’ and inserting ‘‘26 years and 6
months’’.
(c) Section 312(c)(2) of the 21st Century De-
partment of Justice Appropriations Author-
ization Act (Public Law 107–273; 28 U.S.C. 133
note), is amended—
(1) in the first sentence by striking ‘‘16
years’’ and inserting ‘‘17 years’’;
(2) in the second sentence (relating to the
central District of California), by striking
‘‘15 years and 6 months’’ and inserting ‘‘16
years and 6 months’’; and
(3) in the third sentence (relating to the
western district of North Carolina), by strik-
ing ‘‘14 years’’ and inserting ‘‘15 years’’.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Judiciary
Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE IV
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
FEDERAL FUNDS
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR RESIDENT TUITION
SUPPORT
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia, to be deposited into a dedicated
account, for a nationwide program to be ad-
ministered by the Mayor, for District of Co-
lumbia resident tuition support, $30,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such funds, including any interest ac-
crued thereon, may be used on behalf of eli-
gible District of Columbia residents to pay
an amount based upon the difference be-
tween in-State and out-of-State tuition at
public institutions of higher education, or to
pay up to $2,500 each year at eligible private
institutions of higher education: Provided
further, That the awarding of such funds may
be prioritized on the basis of a resident’s aca-
demic merit, the income and need of eligible
students and such other factors as may be
authorized: Provided further, That the Dis-
trict of Columbia government shall maintain
a dedicated account for the Resident Tuition
Support Program that shall consist of the
Federal funds appropriated to the Program
in this Act and any subsequent appropria-
tions, any unobligated balances from prior
fiscal years, and any interest earned in this
or any fiscal year: Provided further, That the
account shall be under the control of the
District of Columbia Chief Financial Officer,
who shall use those funds solely for the pur-
poses of carrying out the Resident Tuition
Support Program: Provided further, That the
Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall
provide a quarterly financial report to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate for these
funds showing, by object class, the expendi-
tures made and the purpose therefor.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR EMERGENCY PLANNING
AND SECURITY COSTS IN THE DISTRICT OF CO-
LUMBIA
For a Federal payment of necessary ex-
penses, as determined by the Mayor of the
District of Columbia in written consultation
with the elected county or city officials of
surrounding jurisdictions, $12,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, for the costs
of providing public safety at events related
to the presence of the National Capital in
the District of Columbia, including support
requested by the Director of the United
States Secret Service in carrying out protec-
tive duties under the direction of the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, and for the
costs of providing support to respond to im-
mediate and specific terrorist threats or at-
tacks in the District of Columbia or sur-
rounding jurisdictions.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA COURTS
For salaries and expenses for the District
of Columbia Courts, $244,939,000 to be allo-
cated as follows: for the District of Columbia
Court of Appeals, $13,379,000, of which not to
exceed $2,500 is for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; for the Superior Court
of the District of Columbia, $121,251,000, of
which not to exceed $2,500 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses; for the
District of Columbia Court System,
$71,909,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 is for
official reception and representation ex-
penses; and $38,400,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020, for capital improve-
ments for District of Columbia courthouse
facilities: Provided, That funds made avail-
able for capital improvements shall be ex-
pended consistent with the District of Co-
lumbia Courts master plan study and facili-
ties condition assessment: Provided further,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, all amounts under this heading shall be
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Man-
agement and Budget and obligated and ex-
pended in the same manner as funds appro-
priated for salaries and expenses of other
Federal agencies: Provided further, That 30
days after providing written notice to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate, the Dis-
trict of Columbia Courts may reallocate not
more than $9,000,000 of the funds provided
under this heading among the items and en-
tities funded under this heading: Provided
further, That the Joint Committee on Judi-
cial Administration in the District of Colum-
bia may, by regulation, establish a program
substantially similar to the program set
forth in subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5,
United States Code, for employees of the Dis-
trict of Columbia Courts.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR DEFENDER SERVICES IN
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payments authorized under section 11–
2604 and section 11–2605, D.C. Official Code
(relating to representation provided under
the District of Columbia Criminal Justice
Act), payments for counsel appointed in pro-
ceedings in the Family Court of the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia under
chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, or
pursuant to contractual agreements to pro-
vide guardian ad litem representation, train-
ing, technical assistance, and such other
services as are necessary to improve the
quality of guardian ad litem representation,
payments for counsel appointed in adoption
proceedings under chapter 3 of title 16, D.C.
Official Code, and payments authorized
under section 21–2060, D.C. Official Code (re-
lating to services provided under the District
of Columbia Guardianship, Protective Pro-
ceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act
of 1986), $46,005,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That not more than
$20,000,000 in unobligated funds provided in
this account may be transferred to and
merged with funds made available under the
heading ‘‘Federal Payment to the District of
Columbia Courts,’’ to be available for the
same period and purposes as funds made
available under that heading for capital im-
provements to District of Columbia court-
house facilities: Provided further, That funds
provided under this heading shall be admin-
istered by the Joint Committee on Judicial
Administration in the District of Columbia:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, this appropriation
shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office
of Management and Budget and obligated
and expended in the same manner as funds
appropriated for expenses of other Federal
agencies.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE COURT SERVICES
AND OFFENDER SUPERVISION AGENCY FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
For salaries and expenses, including the
transfer and hire of motor vehicles, of the
Court Services and Offender Supervision
Agency for the District of Columbia, as au-
thorized by the National Capital Revitaliza-
tion and Self-Government Improvement Act
of 1997, $256,724,000, of which not to exceed
$2,000 is for official reception and representa-
tion expenses related to Community Super-
vision and Pretrial Services Agency pro-
grams, and of which not to exceed $25,000 is
for dues and assessments relating to the im-
plementation of the Court Services and Of-
fender Supervision Agency Interstate Super-
vision Act of 2002: Provided, That, of the
funds appropriated under this heading,
$183,166,000 shall be for necessary expenses of
Community Supervision and Sex Offender
Registration, to include expenses relating to
the supervision of adults subject to protec-
tion orders or the provision of services for or
related to such persons, of which $5,919,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2021 for costs associated with relocation
under a replacement lease for headquarters
offices, field offices, and related facilities:
Provided further, That, of the funds appro-
priated under this heading, $73,558,000 shall
be available to the Pretrial Services Agency,
of which $7,304,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2021 for costs associated
with relocation under a replacement lease
for headquarters offices, field offices, and re-
lated facilities: Provided further, That not-
withstanding any other provision of law, all
amounts under this heading shall be appor-
tioned quarterly by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget and obligated and expended
in the same manner as funds appropriated
for salaries and expenses of other Federal
agencies: Provided further, That amounts
under this heading may be used for pro-
grammatic incentives for defendants to suc-
cessfully complete their terms of super-
vision.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA PUBLIC DEFENDER SERVICE
For salaries and expenses, including the
transfer and hire of motor vehicles, of the
District of Columbia Public Defender Serv-
ice, as authorized by the National Capital
Revitalization and Self-Government Im-
provement Act of 1997, $45,858,000, of which
$4,471,000 shall be available until September
30, 2021 for costs associated with relocation
under a replacement lease for headquarters
offices, field offices, and related facilities:
Provided, That notwithstanding any other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H319
January 9, 2019
provision of law, all amounts under this
heading shall be apportioned quarterly by
the Office of Management and Budget and
obligated and expended in the same manner
as funds appropriated for salaries and ex-
penses of Federal agencies.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
COORDINATING COUNCIL
For a Federal payment to the Criminal
Justice Coordinating Council, $2,150,000, to
remain available until expended, to support
initiatives related to the coordination of
Federal and local criminal justice resources
in the District of Columbia.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR JUDICIAL COMMISSIONS
For a Federal payment, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, to the Commis-
sion on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure,
$295,000, and for the Judicial Nomination
Commission, $270,000.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT
For a Federal payment for a school im-
provement program in the District of Colum-
bia, $52,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for payments authorized under the
Scholarship for Opportunity and Results Act
(division C of Public Law 112–10): Provided,
That, to the extent that funds are available
for opportunity scholarships and following
the priorities included in section 3006 of such
Act, the Secretary of Education shall make
scholarships available to students eligible
under section 3013(3) of such Act (Public Law
112–10; 125 Stat. 211) including students who
were not offered a scholarship during any
previous school year: Provided further, That
within funds provided for opportunity schol-
arships up to $1,200,000 shall be for the activi-
ties specified in sections 3007(b) through
3007(d) of the Act and up to $500,000 shall be
for the activities specified in section 3009 of
the Act.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA NATIONAL GUARD
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia National Guard, $435,000, to remain
available until expended for the Major Gen-
eral David F. Wherley, Jr. District of Colum-
bia National Guard Retention and College
Access Program.
FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR TESTING AND
TREATMENT OF HIV/AIDS
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia for the testing of individuals for,
and the treatment of individuals with,
human immunodeficiency virus and acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome in the District
of Columbia, $2,000,000.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FUNDS
Local funds are appropriated for the Dis-
trict of Columbia for the current fiscal year
out of the General Fund of the District of
Columbia (‘‘General Fund’’) for programs
and activities set forth under the heading
‘‘PART A—SUMMARY OF EXPENSES’’ and at the
rate set forth under such heading, as in-
cluded in the Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Re-
quest Act of 2018 submitted to Congress by
the District of Columbia, as amended as of
the date of enactment of this Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, except as provided in section 450A of the
District of Columbia Home Rule Act (section
1–204.50a, D.C. Official Code), sections 816 and
817 of the Financial Services and General
Government Appropriations Act, 2009 (secs.
47–369.01 and 47–369.02, D.C. Official Code),
and provisions of this Act, the total amount
appropriated in this Act for operating ex-
penses for the District of Columbia for fiscal
year 2019 under this heading shall not exceed
the estimates included in the Fiscal Year
2019 Budget Request Act of 2018 submitted to
Congress by the District of Columbia, as
amended as of the date of enactment of this
Act or the sum of the total revenues of the
District of Columbia for such fiscal year:
Provided further, That the amount appro-
priated may be increased by proceeds of one-
time transactions, which are expended for
emergency or unanticipated operating or
capital needs: Provided further, That such in-
creases shall be approved by enactment of
local District law and shall comply with all
reserve requirements contained in the Dis-
trict of Columbia Home Rule Act: Provided
further, That the Chief Financial Officer of
the District of Columbia shall take such
steps as are necessary to assure that the Dis-
trict of Columbia meets these requirements,
including the apportioning by the Chief Fi-
nancial Officer of the appropriations and
funds made available to the District during
fiscal year 2019, except that the Chief Finan-
cial Officer may not reprogram for operating
expenses any funds derived from bonds,
notes, or other obligations issued for capital
projects.
FEDERAL PAYMENT TO THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY
For a Federal payment to the District of
Columbia Water and Sewer Authority,
$10,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to continue implementation of the
Combined Sewer Overflow Long-Term Plan:
Provided, That the District of Columbia
Water and Sewer Authority provides a 100
percent match for this payment.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘District of
Columbia Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE V
INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
ADMINISTRATIVE CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED
STATES
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Administra-
tive Conference of the United States, author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., $3,100,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020, of
which not to exceed $1,000 is for official re-
ception and representation expenses.
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act
(7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), including the purchase
and hire of passenger motor vehicles, and the
rental of space (to include multiple year
leases), in the District of Columbia and else-
where, $281,500,000, including not to exceed
$3,000 for official reception and representa-
tion expenses, and not to exceed $25,000 for
the expenses for consultations and meetings
hosted by the Commission with foreign gov-
ernmental and other regulatory officials, of
which not less than $57,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, shall be
for the purchase of information technology
and of which not less than $3,302,509 shall be
for expenses of the Office of the Inspector
General: Provided, That notwithstanding the
limitations in 31 U.S.C. 1553, amounts pro-
vided under this heading are available for
the liquidation of obligations equal to cur-
rent year payments on leases entered into
prior to the date of enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That for the purpose of re-
cording and liquidating any lease obligations
that should have been recorded and liq-
uidated against accounts closed pursuant to
31 U.S.C. 1552, and consistent with the pre-
ceding proviso, such amounts shall be trans-
ferred to and recorded in a no-year account
in the Treasury, which has been established
for the sole purpose of recording adjustments
for and liquidating such unpaid obligations.
CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Consumer
Product Safety Commission, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles, services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for in-
dividuals not to exceed the per diem rate
equivalent to the maximum rate payable
under 5 U.S.C. 5376, purchase of nominal
awards to recognize non-Federal officials’
contributions to Commission activities, and
not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and
representation expenses, $126,000,000.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—CONSUMER
PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION
SEC. 501. During fiscal year 2019, none of
the amounts made available by this Act may
be used to finalize or implement the Safety
Standard for Recreational Off-Highway Vehi-
cles published by the Consumer Product
Safety Commission in the Federal Register
on November 19, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 68964)
until after—
(1) the National Academy of Sciences, in
consultation with the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration and the De-
partment of Defense, completes a study to
determine—
(A) the technical validity of the lateral
stability and vehicle handling requirements
proposed by such standard for purposes of re-
ducing the risk of Recreational Off-Highway
Vehicle (referred to in this section as
‘‘ROV’’) rollovers in the off-road environ-
ment, including the repeatability and repro-
ducibility of testing for compliance with
such requirements;
(B) the number of ROV rollovers that
would be prevented if the proposed require-
ments were adopted;
(C) whether there is a technical basis for
the proposal to provide information on a
point-of-sale hangtag about a ROV’s rollover
resistance on a progressive scale; and
(D) the effect on the utility of ROVs used
by the United States military if the proposed
requirements were adopted; and
(2) a report containing the results of the
study completed under paragraph (1) is deliv-
ered to—
(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
(C) the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate; and
(D) the Committee on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives.
ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Help America Vote Act of 2002 (Public Law
107–252), $9,200,000, of which $1,500,000 shall be
transferred to the National Institute of
Standards and Technology for election re-
form activities authorized under the Help
America Vote Act of 2002.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Communications Commission, as authorized
by law, including uniforms and allowances
therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902;
not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and
representation expenses; purchase and hire
of motor vehicles; special counsel fees; and
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109,
$333,118,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That $333,118,000 of offset-
ting collections shall be assessed and col-
lected pursuant to section 9 of title I of the
Communications Act of 1934, shall be re-
tained and used for necessary expenses and
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated shall be reduced as such offsetting
collections are received during fiscal year
2019 so as to result in a final fiscal year 2019
appropriation estimated at $0: Provided fur-
ther, That any offsetting collections received
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H320 January 9, 2019
in excess of $333,118,000 in fiscal year 2019
shall not be available for obligation: Provided
further, That remaining offsetting collec-
tions from prior years collected in excess of
the amount specified for collection in each
such year and otherwise becoming available
on October 1, 2018, shall not be available for
obligation: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from
the use of a competitive bidding system that
may be retained and made available for obli-
gation shall not exceed $130,284,000 for fiscal
year 2019: Provided further, That, of the
amount appropriated under this heading, not
less than $11,064,000 shall be for the salaries
and expenses of the Office of Inspector Gen-
eral.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
SEC. 510. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to modify, amend, or
change its rules or regulations for universal
service support payments to implement the
February 27, 2004 recommendations of the
Federal-State Joint Board on Universal
Service regarding single connection or pri-
mary line restrictions on universal service
support payments.
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$42,982,000, to be derived from the Deposit In-
surance Fund or, only when appropriate, the
FSLIC Resolution Fund.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971, $71,250,000, of which not to exceed
$5,000 shall be available for reception and
representation expenses.
FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Federal Labor Relations Author-
ity, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Num-
bered 2 of 1978, and the Civil Service Reform
Act of 1978, including services authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, and including hire of experts
and consultants, hire of passenger motor ve-
hicles, and including official reception and
representation expenses (not to exceed $1,500)
and rental of conference rooms in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and elsewhere, $26,200,000:
Provided, That public members of the Fed-
eral Service Impasses Panel may be paid
travel expenses and per diem in lieu of sub-
sistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703)
for persons employed intermittently in the
Government service, and compensation as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, funds
received from fees charged to non-Federal
participants at labor-management relations
conferences shall be credited to and merged
with this account, to be available without
further appropriation for the costs of car-
rying out these conferences.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Trade Commission, including uniforms or al-
lowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
5901–5902; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and
not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and
representation expenses, $309,700,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available
for use to contract with a person or persons
for collection services in accordance with
the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding any other provision
of law, not to exceed $136,000,000 of offsetting
collections derived from fees collected for
premerger notification filings under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the
year of collection, shall be retained and used
for necessary expenses in this appropriation:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, not to exceed
$17,000,000 in offsetting collections derived
from fees sufficient to implement and en-
force the Telemarketing Sales Rule, promul-
gated under the Telemarketing and Con-
sumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act (15
U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be credited to this
account, and be retained and used for nec-
essary expenses in this appropriation: Pro-
vided further, That the sum herein appro-
priated from the general fund shall be re-
duced as such offsetting collections are re-
ceived during fiscal year 2019, so as to result
in a final fiscal year 2019 appropriation from
the general fund estimated at not more than
$156,700,000: Provided further, That none of the
funds made available to the Federal Trade
Commission may be used to implement sub-
section (e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831t).
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
REAL PROPERTY ACTIVITIES
FEDERAL BUILDINGS FUND
LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF REVENUE
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Amounts in the Fund, including revenues
and collections deposited into the Fund,
shall be available for necessary expenses of
real property management and related ac-
tivities not otherwise provided for, including
operation, maintenance, and protection of
federally owned and leased buildings; rental
of buildings in the District of Columbia; res-
toration of leased premises; moving govern-
mental agencies (including space adjust-
ments and telecommunications relocation
expenses) in connection with the assignment,
allocation, and transfer of space; contractual
services incident to cleaning or servicing
buildings, and moving; repair and alteration
of federally owned buildings, including
grounds, approaches, and appurtenances;
care and safeguarding of sites; maintenance,
preservation, demolition, and equipment; ac-
quisition of buildings and sites by purchase,
condemnation, or as otherwise authorized by
law; acquisition of options to purchase build-
ings and sites; conversion and extension of
federally owned buildings; preliminary plan-
ning and design of projects by contract or
otherwise; construction of new buildings (in-
cluding equipment for such buildings); and
payment of principal, interest, and any other
obligations for public buildings acquired by
installment purchase and purchase contract;
in the aggregate amount of $9,633,450,000, of
which—
(1) $1,080,068,000 shall remain available
until expended for construction and acquisi-
tion (including funds for sites and expenses,
and associated design and construction serv-
ices) as follows:
(A) $767,900,000 shall be for the Department
of Transportation Lease Purchase Option,
Washington, District of Columbia;
(B) $100,000,000 shall be for the DHS Con-
solidation at St. Elizabeths, Washington,
District of Columbia;
(C) $27,268,000 shall be for the Former
Hardesty Federal Complex, Kansas City, Mis-
souri;
(D) $9,000,000 shall be for the Southeast
Federal Center Remediation, Washington,
District of Columbia; and
(E) $175,900,000 shall be for the Calexico
West Land Port of Entry, Calexico, Cali-
fornia:
Provided, That each of the foregoing limits of
costs on new construction and acquisition
projects may be exceeded to the extent that
savings are effected in other such projects,
but not to exceed 10 percent of the amounts
included in a transmitted prospectus, if re-
quired, unless advance approval is obtained
from the Committees on Appropriations of a
greater amount;
(2) $890,419,000 shall remain available until
expended for repairs and alterations, includ-
ing associated design and construction serv-
ices, of which—
(A) $424,690,000 is for Major Repairs and Al-
terations;
(B) $373,556,000 is for Basic Repairs and Al-
terations; and
(C) $92,173,000 is for Special Emphasis Pro-
grams, of which—
(i) $30,000,000 is for Fire and Life Safety;
(ii) $11,500,000 is for Judiciary Capital Secu-
rity; and
(iii) $50,673,000 is for Consolidation Activi-
ties: Provided, That consolidation projects
result in reduced annual rent paid by the
tenant agency: Provided further, That no con-
solidation project exceed $10,000,000 in costs:
Provided further, That consolidation projects
are approved by each of the committees
specified in section 3307(a) of title 40, United
States Code: Provided further, That pref-
erence is given to consolidation projects that
achieve a utilization rate of 130 usable
square feet or less per person for office space:
Provided further, That the obligation of funds
under this paragraph for consolidation ac-
tivities may not be made until 10 days after
a proposed spending plan and explanation for
each project to be undertaken, including es-
timated savings, has been submitted to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate:
Provided, That funds made available in this
or any previous Act in the Federal Buildings
Fund for Repairs and Alterations shall, for
prospectus projects, be limited to the
amount identified for each project, except
each project in this or any previous Act may
be increased by an amount not to exceed 10
percent unless advance approval is obtained
from the Committees on Appropriations of a
greater amount: Provided further, That addi-
tional projects for which prospectuses have
been fully approved may be funded under
this category only if advance approval is ob-
tained from the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That the amounts
provided in this or any prior Act for ‘‘Re-
pairs and Alterations’’ may be used to fund
costs associated with implementing security
improvements to buildings necessary to
meet the minimum standards for security in
accordance with current law and in compli-
ance with the reprogramming guidelines of
the appropriate Committees of the House
and Senate: Provided further, That the dif-
ference between the funds appropriated and
expended on any projects in this or any prior
Act, under the heading ‘‘Repairs and Alter-
ations’’, may be transferred to Basic Repairs
and Alterations or used to fund authorized
increases in prospectus projects: Provided
further, That the amount provided in this or
any prior Act for Basic Repairs and Alter-
ations may be used to pay claims against the
Government arising from any projects under
the heading ‘‘Repairs and Alterations’’ or
used to fund authorized increases in pro-
spectus projects;
(3) $5,418,845,000 for rental of space to re-
main available until expended; and
(4) $2,244,118,000 for building operations to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That the total amount of funds made avail-
able from this Fund to the General Services
Administration shall not be available for ex-
penses of any construction, repair, alteration
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H321
January 9, 2019
and acquisition project for which a pro-
spectus, if required by 40 U.S.C. 3307(a), has
not been approved, except that necessary
funds may be expended for each project for
required expenses for the development of a
proposed prospectus: Provided further, That
funds available in the Federal Buildings
Fund may be expended for emergency repairs
when advance approval is obtained from the
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That amounts necessary to provide re-
imbursable special services to other agencies
under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and amounts to pro-
vide such reimbursable fencing, lighting,
guard booths, and other facilities on private
or other property not in Government owner-
ship or control as may be appropriate to en-
able the United States Secret Service to per-
form its protective functions pursuant to 18
U.S.C. 3056, shall be available from such rev-
enues and collections: Provided further, That
revenues and collections and any other sums
accruing to this Fund during fiscal year 2019,
excluding reimbursements under 40 U.S.C.
592(b)(2), in excess of the aggregate new
obligational authority authorized for Real
Property Activities of the Federal Buildings
Fund in this Act shall remain in the Fund
and shall not be available for expenditure ex-
cept as authorized in appropriations Acts.
GENERAL ACTIVITIES
GOVERNMENT-WIDE POLICY
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for Government-wide pol-
icy and evaluation activities associated with
the management of real and personal prop-
erty assets and certain administrative serv-
ices; Government-wide policy support re-
sponsibilities relating to acquisition, travel,
motor vehicles, information technology
management, and related technology activi-
ties; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109; $58,499,000.
OPERATING EXPENSES
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for Government-wide ac-
tivities associated with utilization and dona-
tion of surplus personal property; disposal of
real property; agency-wide policy direction,
management, and communications; and serv-
ices as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $49,440,000,
of which not less than $26,890,000 is for Real
and Personal Property Management and Dis-
posal; and up to $22,550,000 is for the Office of
the Administrator, of which not to exceed
$7,500 is for official reception and representa-
tion expenses.
CIVILIAN BOARD OF CONTRACT APPEALS
For expenses authorized by law, not other-
wise provided for, for the activities associ-
ated with the Civilian Board of Contract Ap-
peals, $9,301,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General and service authorized by 5
U.S.C. 3109, $65,000,000: Provided, That not to
exceed $50,000 shall be available for payment
for information and detection of fraud
against the Government, including payment
for recovery of stolen Government property:
Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500
shall be available for awards to employees of
other Federal agencies and private citizens
in recognition of efforts and initiatives re-
sulting in enhanced Office of Inspector Gen-
eral effectiveness.
In addition to the foregoing appropriation,
$2,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be transferred to the Council of
the Inspectors General on Integrity and Effi-
ciency for enhancements to
www.oversight.gov: Provided, That these
amounts shall be in addition to any other
amounts available to the Council of the In-
spectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
for such purpose.
ALLOWANCES AND OFFICE STAFF FOR FORMER
PRESIDENTS
For carrying out the provisions of the Act
of August 25, 1958 (3 U.S.C. 102 note), and
Public Law 95–138, $4,796,000.
FEDERAL CITIZEN SERVICES FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Products and Programs, including services
authorized by 40 U.S.C. 323 and 44 U.S.C. 3604;
and for necessary expenses in support of
interagency projects that enable the Federal
Government to enhance its ability to con-
duct activities electronically, through the
development and implementation of innova-
tive uses of information technology;
$55,000,000, to be deposited into the Federal
Citizen Services Fund: Provided, That the
previous amount may be transferred to Fed-
eral agencies to carry out the purpose of the
Federal Citizen Services Fund: Provided fur-
ther, That the appropriations, revenues, re-
imbursements, and collections deposited into
the Fund shall be available until expended
for necessary expenses of Federal Citizen
Services and other activities that enable the
Federal Government to enhance its ability
to conduct activities electronically in the
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000:
Provided further, That appropriations, reve-
nues, reimbursements, and collections accru-
ing to this Fund during fiscal year 2019 in ex-
cess of such amount shall remain in the
Fund and shall not be available for expendi-
ture except as authorized in appropriations
Acts: Provided further, That the transfer au-
thorities provided herein shall be in addition
to any other transfer authority provided in
this Act.
ASSET PROCEEDS AND SPACE MANAGEMENT
FUND
For carrying out the purposes of the Fed-
eral Assets Sale and Transfer Act of 2016
(Public Law 114–287), $15,500,000, to be depos-
ited into the Asset Proceeds and Space Man-
agement Fund, to remain available until ex-
pended.
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW IMPROVEMENT FUND
For necessary expenses of the Environ-
mental Review Improvement Fund estab-
lished pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4370m–8(d),
$6,070,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—GENERAL
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 520. Funds available to the General
Services Administration shall be available
for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
SEC. 521. Funds in the Federal Buildings
Fund made available for fiscal year 2019 for
Federal Buildings Fund activities may be
transferred between such activities only to
the extent necessary to meet program re-
quirements: Provided, That any proposed
transfers shall be approved in advance by the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate.
SEC. 522. Except as otherwise provided in
this title, funds made available by this Act
shall be used to transmit a fiscal year 2020
request for United States Courthouse con-
struction only if the request: (1) meets the
design guide standards for construction as
established and approved by the General
Services Administration, the Judicial Con-
ference of the United States, and the Office
of Management and Budget; (2) reflects the
priorities of the Judicial Conference of the
United States as set out in its approved
Courthouse Project Priorities plan; and (3)
includes a standardized courtroom utiliza-
tion study of each facility to be constructed,
replaced, or expanded.
SEC. 523. None of the funds provided in this
Act may be used to increase the amount of
occupiable square feet, provide cleaning
services, security enhancements, or any
other service usually provided through the
Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that
does not pay the rate per square foot assess-
ment for space and services as determined by
the General Services Administration in con-
sideration of the Public Buildings Amend-
ments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92–313).
SEC. 524. From funds made available under
the heading Federal Buildings Fund, Limita-
tions on Availability of Revenue, claims
against the Government of less than $250,000
arising from direct construction projects and
acquisition of buildings may be liquidated
from savings effected in other construction
projects with prior notification to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate.
SEC. 525. In any case in which the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works of the Senate adopt a resolution
granting lease authority pursuant to a pro-
spectus transmitted to Congress by the Ad-
ministrator of the General Services Adminis-
tration under 40 U.S.C. 3307, the Adminis-
trator shall ensure that the delineated area
of procurement is identical to the delineated
area included in the prospectus for all lease
agreements, except that, if the Adminis-
trator determines that the delineated area of
the procurement should not be identical to
the delineated area included in the pro-
spectus, the Administrator shall provide an
explanatory statement to each of such com-
mittees and the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate prior to exercising any lease au-
thority provided in the resolution.
SEC. 526. With respect to each project fund-
ed under the heading ‘‘Major Repairs and Al-
terations’’ or ‘‘Judiciary Capital Security
Program’’, and with respect to E–Govern-
ment projects funded under the heading
‘‘Federal Citizen Services Fund’’, the Admin-
istrator of General Services shall submit a
spending plan and explanation for each
project to be undertaken to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act.
HARRY S TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For payment to the Harry S Truman
Scholarship Foundation Trust Fund, estab-
lished by section 10 of Public Law 93–642,
$1,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Merit Systems Protection Board
pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2
of 1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978,
and the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989
(5 U.S.C. 5509 note), including services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference
rooms in the District of Columbia and else-
where, hire of passenger motor vehicles, di-
rect procurement of survey printing, and not
to exceed $2,000 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $44,490,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, and in ad-
dition not to exceed $2,345,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, for admin-
istrative expenses to adjudicate retirement
appeals to be transferred from the Civil
Service Retirement and Disability Fund in
amounts determined by the Merit Systems
Protection Board.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H322 January 9, 2019
MORRIS K. UDALL AND STEWART L. UDALL
FOUNDATION
MORRIS K. UDALL AND STEWART L. UDALL
TRUST FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payment to the Morris K. Udall and
Stewart L. Udall Trust Fund, pursuant to
the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall
Foundation Act (20 U.S.C. 5601 et seq.),
$1,875,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which, notwithstanding sections 8
and 9 of such Act: (1) up to $50,000 shall be
used to conduct financial audits pursuant to
the Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002
(Public Law 107–289); and (2) up to $1,000,000
shall be available to carry out the activities
authorized by section 6(7) of Public Law 102–
259 and section 817(a) of Public Law 106–568
(20 U.S.C. 5604(7)): Provided, That of the total
amount made available under this heading
$200,000 shall be transferred to the Office of
Inspector General of the Department of the
Interior, to remain available until expended,
for audits and investigations of the Morris K.
Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation, con-
sistent with the Inspector General Act of
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
ENVIRONMENTAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION FUND
For payment to the Environmental Dis-
pute Resolution Fund to carry out activities
authorized in the Environmental Policy and
Conflict Resolution Act of 1998, $3,200,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses in connection with
the administration of the National Archives
and Records Administration and archived
Federal records and related activities, as
provided by law, and for expenses necessary
for the review and declassification of docu-
ments, the activities of the Public Interest
Declassification Board, the operations and
maintenance of the electronic records ar-
chives, the hire of passenger motor vehicles,
and for uniforms or allowances therefor, as
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including
maintenance, repairs, and cleaning,
$375,105,000.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Reform Act of
2008, Public Law 110–409, 122 Stat. 4302–16
(2008), and the Inspector General Act of 1978
(5 U.S.C. App.), and for the hire of passenger
motor vehicles, $4,801,000.
REPAIRS AND RESTORATION
For the repair, alteration, and improve-
ment of archives facilities, and to provide
adequate storage for holdings, $7,500,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL HISTORICAL PUBLICATIONS AND
RECORDS COMMISSION
GRANTS PROGRAM
For necessary expenses for allocations and
grants for historical publications and records
as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, $6,000,000, to
remain available until expended.
NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING LOAN
FUND
For the Community Development Revolv-
ing Loan Fund program as authorized by 42
U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $2,000,000 shall be
available until September 30, 2020, for tech-
nical assistance to low-income designated
credit unions.
OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Government Ethics pur-
suant to the Ethics in Government Act of
1978, the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and the
Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge
Act of 2012, including services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms
in the District of Columbia and elsewhere,
hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to
exceed $1,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $16,439,000.
OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF TRUST FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) pursuant to Reorganization Plan
Numbered 2 of 1978 and the Civil Service Re-
form Act of 1978, including services as au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examina-
tions performed for veterans by private phy-
sicians on a fee basis; rental of conference
rooms in the District of Columbia and else-
where; hire of passenger motor vehicles; not
to exceed $2,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses; advances for reim-
bursements to applicable funds of OPM and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation for ex-
penses incurred under Executive Order No.
10422 of January 9, 1953, as amended; and pay-
ment of per diem and/or subsistence allow-
ances to employees where Voting Rights Act
activities require an employee to remain
overnight at his or her post of duty,
$132,172,000: Provided, That of the total
amount made available under this heading,
not to exceed $14,000,000 shall remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, for information
technology infrastructure modernization and
Trust Fund Federal Financial System migra-
tion or modernization, and shall be in addi-
tion to funds otherwise made available for
such purposes: Provided further, That of the
total amount made available under this
heading, $639,018 may be made available for
strengthening the capacity and capabilities
of the acquisition workforce (as defined by
the Office of Federal Procurement Policy
Act, as amended (41 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.)), in-
cluding the recruitment, hiring, training,
and retention of such workforce and infor-
mation technology in support of acquisition
workforce effectiveness or for management
solutions to improve acquisition manage-
ment; and in addition $133,483,000 for admin-
istrative expenses, to be transferred from the
appropriate trust funds of OPM without re-
gard to other statutes, including direct pro-
curement of printed materials, for the retire-
ment and insurance programs: Provided fur-
ther, That the provisions of this appropria-
tion shall not affect the authority to use ap-
plicable trust funds as provided by sections
8348(a)(1)(B), 8958(f)(2)(A), 8988(f)(2)(A), and
9004(f)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code:
Provided further, That no part of this appro-
priation shall be available for salaries and
expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of
OPM established pursuant to Executive
Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or any suc-
cessor unit of like purpose: Provided further,
That the President’s Commission on White
House Fellows, established by Executive
Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, dur-
ing fiscal year 2019, accept donations of
money, property, and personal services: Pro-
vided further, That such donations, including
those from prior years, may be used for the
development of publicity materials to pro-
vide information about the White House Fel-
lows, except that no such donations shall be
accepted for travel or reimbursement of
travel expenses, or for the salaries of em-
ployees of such Commission.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF TRUST FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, in-
cluding services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, hire of passenger motor vehicles,
$5,000,000, and in addition, not to exceed
$25,265,000 for administrative expenses to
audit, investigate, and provide other over-
sight of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment’s retirement and insurance programs,
to be transferred from the appropriate trust
funds of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment, as determined by the Inspector Gen-
eral: Provided, That the Inspector General is
authorized to rent conference rooms in the
District of Columbia and elsewhere.
OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses to carry out func-
tions of the Office of Special Counsel pursu-
ant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of
1978, the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978
(Public Law 95–454), the Whistleblower Pro-
tection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101–12) as
amended by Public Law 107–304, the Whistle-
blower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012
(Public Law 112–199), and the Uniformed
Services Employment and Reemployment
Rights Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–353), in-
cluding services as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
3109, payment of fees and expenses for wit-
nesses, rental of conference rooms in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and elsewhere, and hire of
passenger motor vehicles; $26,535,000.
POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Postal Regu-
latory Commission in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Postal Accountability and En-
hancement Act (Public Law 109–435),
$15,200,000, to be derived by transfer from the
Postal Service Fund and expended as author-
ized by section 603(a) of such Act.
PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT
BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Privacy and
Civil Liberties Oversight Board, as author-
ized by section 1061 of the Intelligence Re-
form and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004
(42 U.S.C. 2000ee), $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses for the Securities
and Exchange Commission, including serv-
ices as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental
of space (to include multiple year leases) in
the District of Columbia and elsewhere, and
not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and
representation expenses, $1,658,302,000, to re-
main available until expended; of which not
less than $15,206,269 shall be for the Office of
Inspector General; of which not to exceed
$75,000 shall be available for a permanent
secretariat for the International Organiza-
tion of Securities Commissions; and of which
not to exceed $100,000 shall be available for
expenses for consultations and meetings
hosted by the Commission with foreign gov-
ernmental and other regulatory officials,
members of their delegations and staffs to
exchange views concerning securities mat-
ters, such expenses to include necessary lo-
gistic and administrative expenses and the
expenses of Commission staff and foreign
invitees in attendance including: (1) inci-
dental expenses such as meals; (2) travel and
transportation; and (3) related lodging or
subsistence; and of which not less than
$75,081,000 shall be for the Division of Eco-
nomic and Risk Analysis.
In addition to the foregoing appropriation,
for costs associated with relocation under a
replacement lease for the Commission’s New
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H323
January 9, 2019
York regional office facilities, not to exceed
$37,188,942, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That for purposes of calcu-
lating the fee rate under section 31(j) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78ee(j)) for fiscal year 2019, all amounts ap-
propriated under this heading shall be
deemed to be the regular appropriation to
the Commission for fiscal year 2019: Provided
further, That fees and charges authorized by
section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) shall be credited to this
account as offsetting collections: Provided
further, That not to exceed $1,658,302,000 of
such offsetting collections shall be available
until expended for necessary expenses of this
account and not to exceed $37,188,942 of such
offsetting collections shall be available until
expended for costs under this heading associ-
ated with relocation under a replacement
lease for the Commission’s New York re-
gional office facilities: Provided further, That
the total amount appropriated under this
heading from the general fund for fiscal year
2019 shall be reduced as such offsetting fees
are received so as to result in a final total
fiscal year 2019 appropriation from the gen-
eral fund estimated at not more than $0: Pro-
vided further, That if any amount of the ap-
propriation for costs associated with reloca-
tion under a replacement lease for the Com-
mission’s New York regional office facilities
is subsequently de-obligated by the Commis-
sion, such amount that was derived from the
general fund shall be returned to the general
fund, and such amounts that were derived
from fees or assessments collected for such
purpose shall be paid to each national securi-
ties exchange and national securities asso-
ciation, respectively, in proportion to any
fees or assessments paid by such national se-
curities exchange or national securities asso-
ciation under section 31 of the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78ee) in fiscal
year 2019.
SELECTIVE SERVICE SYSTEM
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Selective
Service System, including expenses of at-
tendance at meetings and of training for uni-
formed personnel assigned to the Selective
Service System, as authorized by 5 U.S.C.
4101–4118 for civilian employees; hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles; services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed $750 for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses;
$26,000,000: Provided, That during the current
fiscal year, the President may exempt this
appropriation from the provisions of 31
U.S.C. 1341, whenever the President deems
such action to be necessary in the interest of
national defense: Provided further, That none
of the funds appropriated by this Act may be
expended for or in connection with the in-
duction of any person into the Armed Forces
of the United States.
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, of the Small Business Administra-
tion, including hire of passenger motor vehi-
cles as authorized by sections 1343 and 1344 of
title 31, United States Code, and not to ex-
ceed $3,500 for official reception and rep-
resentation expenses, $267,500,000, of which
not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for
examinations, reviews, and other lender
oversight activities: Provided, That the Ad-
ministrator is authorized to charge fees to
cover the cost of publications developed by
the Small Business Administration, and cer-
tain loan program activities, including fees
authorized by section 5(b) of the Small Busi-
ness Act: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing 31 U.S.C. 3302, revenues received
from all such activities shall be credited to
this account, to remain available until ex-
pended, for carrying out these purposes with-
out further appropriations: Provided further,
That the Small Business Administration
may accept gifts in an amount not to exceed
$4,000,000 and may co-sponsor activities, each
in accordance with section 132(a) of division
K of Public Law 108–447, during fiscal year
2019: Provided further, That $6,100,000 shall be
available for the Loan Modernization and
Accounting System, to be available until
September 30, 2020: Provided further, That
$3,000,000 shall be for the Federal and State
Technology Partnership Program under sec-
tion 34 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
657d).
ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses of programs sup-
porting entrepreneurial and small business
development, $241,600,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020: Provided, That
$130,000,000 shall be available to fund grants
for performance in fiscal year 2019 or fiscal
year 2020 as authorized by section 21 of the
Small Business Act: Provided further, That
$31,000,000 shall be for marketing, manage-
ment, and technical assistance under section
7(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
636(m)(4)) by intermediaries that make
microloans under the microloan program:
Provided further, That $18,000,000 shall be
available for grants to States to carry out
export programs that assist small business
concerns authorized under section 22(l) of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 649(l)).
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$21,900,000.
OFFICE OF ADVOCACY
For necessary expenses of the Office of Ad-
vocacy in carrying out the provisions of title
II of Public Law 94–305 (15 U.S.C. 634a et seq.)
and the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5
U.S.C. 601 et seq.), $9,120,000, to remain avail-
able until expended.
BUSINESS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the cost of direct loans, $4,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That such costs, including the cost of modi-
fying such loans, shall be as defined in sec-
tion 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974: Provided further, That subject to section
502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974,
during fiscal year 2019 commitments to guar-
antee loans under section 503 of the Small
Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not ex-
ceed $7,500,000,000: Provided further, That dur-
ing fiscal year 2019 commitments for general
business loans authorized under section 7(a)
of the Small Business Act shall not exceed
$30,000,000,000 for a combination of amor-
tizing term loans and the aggregated max-
imum line of credit provided by revolving
loans: Provided further, That during fiscal
year 2019 commitments for loans authorized
under subparagraph (C) of section 502(7) of
The Small Business Investment Act of 1958
(15 U.S.C. 696(7)) shall not exceed
$7,500,000,000: Provided further, That during
fiscal year 2019 commitments to guarantee
loans for debentures under section 303(b) of
the Small Business Investment Act of 1958
shall not exceed $4,000,000,000: Provided fur-
ther, That during fiscal year 2019, guarantees
of trust certificates authorized by section
5(g) of the Small Business Act shall not ex-
ceed a principal amount of $12,000,000,000. In
addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct and guaranteed loan
programs, $155,150,000, which may be trans-
ferred to and merged with the appropriations
for Salaries and Expenses.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—SMALL BUSINESS
ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 530. Not to exceed 5 percent of any ap-
propriation made available for the current
fiscal year for the Small Business Adminis-
tration in this Act may be transferred be-
tween such appropriations, but no such ap-
propriation shall be increased by more than
10 percent by any such transfers: Provided,
That any transfer pursuant to this paragraph
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds
under section 608 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section.
SEC. 531. None of the funds made available
to the Small Business Administration in this
Act may be provided to a company—
(1) that is headquarted in the People’s Re-
public of China; or
(2) for which more than 25 percent of the
voting stock of the company is owned by af-
filiates that are citizens of the People’s Re-
public of China.
SEC. 532. Not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Small
Business Administration shall conduct a
study on whether the provision of match-
making services that, using data collected
through outside entities such as local cham-
bers of commerce, link veteran entre-
preneurs to business leads in given industry
sectors or geographic regions, would enhance
the existing veterans entrepreneurship pro-
grams of the Administration.
SEC. 533. The Administrator of the Small
Business Administration shall—
(1) work with Federal agencies to review
each Office of Small and Disadvantaged
Business Utilization’s efforts to comply with
the requirements under section 15(k) of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)); and
(2) not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, submit to the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entrepreneur-
ship and the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate and the Committee on Small
Business and the Committee on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives—
(A) a report on Federal agency compliance
with the requirements under such section
15(k); and
(B) a report detailing the status of
issuance by the Small Business Administra-
tion of detailed guidance for the peer review
process of the Small Business Procurement
Advisory Council in order to facilitate a
more in depth review of Federal agency com-
pliance with the requirements under such
section 15(k).
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
PAYMENT TO THE POSTAL SERVICE FUND
For payment to the Postal Service Fund
for revenue forgone on free and reduced rate
mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of
section 2401 of title 39, United States Code,
$55,235,000: Provided, That mail for overseas
voting and mail for the blind shall continue
to be free: Provided further, That 6-day deliv-
ery and rural delivery of mail shall continue
at not less than the 1983 level: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds made available
to the Postal Service by this Act shall be
used to implement any rule, regulation, or
policy of charging any officer or employee of
any State or local child support enforcement
agency, or any individual participating in a
State or local program of child support en-
forcement, a fee for information requested or
provided concerning an address of a postal
customer: Provided further, That none of the
funds provided in this Act shall be used to
consolidate or close small rural and other
small post offices.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H324 January 9, 2019
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General in carrying out the provi-
sions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
$250,000,000, to be derived by transfer from
the Postal Service Fund and expended as au-
thorized by section 603(b)(3) of the Postal Ac-
countability and Enhancement Act (Public
Law 109–435).
UNITED STATES TAX COURT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses, including contract
reporting and other services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109, $51,515,000, of which $1,000,000
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided, That travel expenses of the judges
shall be paid upon the written certificate of
the judge.
TITLE VI
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
SEC. 601. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used for the planning or execution of any
program to pay the expenses of, or otherwise
compensate, non-Federal parties intervening
in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings
funded in this Act.
SEC. 602. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act shall remain available for obliga-
tion beyond the current fiscal year, nor may
any be transferred to other appropriations,
unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 603. The expenditure of any appropria-
tion under this Act for any consulting serv-
ice through procurement contract pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those
contracts where such expenditures are a
matter of public record and available for
public inspection, except where otherwise
provided under existing law, or under exist-
ing Executive order issued pursuant to exist-
ing law.
SEC. 604. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be transferred to any depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government, except pursuant
to a transfer made by, or transfer authority
provided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
SEC. 605. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be available for any activ-
ity or for paying the salary of any Govern-
ment employee where funding an activity or
paying a salary to a Government employee
would result in a decision, determination,
rule, regulation, or policy that would pro-
hibit the enforcement of section 307 of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
SEC. 606. No funds appropriated pursuant to
this Act may be expended by an entity un-
less the entity agrees that in expending the
assistance the entity will comply with chap-
ter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
SEC. 607. No funds appropriated or other-
wise made available under this Act shall be
made available to any person or entity that
has been convicted of violating chapter 83 of
title 41, United States Code.
SEC. 608. Except as otherwise provided in
this Act, none of the funds provided in this
Act, provided by previous appropriations
Acts to the agencies or entities funded in
this Act that remain available for obligation
or expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided
from any accounts in the Treasury derived
by the collection of fees and available to the
agencies funded by this Act, shall be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure through a
reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates a
new program; (2) eliminates a program,
project, or activity; (3) increases funds or
personnel for any program, project, or activ-
ity for which funds have been denied or re-
stricted by the Congress; (4) proposes to use
funds directed for a specific activity by the
Committee on Appropriations of either the
House of Representatives or the Senate for a
different purpose; (5) augments existing pro-
grams, projects, or activities in excess of
$5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; (6)
reduces existing programs, projects, or ac-
tivities by $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever
is less; or (7) creates or reorganizes offices,
programs, or activities unless prior approval
is received from the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided, That prior to any
significant reorganization or restructuring
of offices, programs, or activities, each agen-
cy or entity funded in this Act shall consult
with the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate:
Provided further, That not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, each
agency funded by this Act shall submit a re-
port to the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
to establish the baseline for application of
reprogramming and transfer authorities for
the current fiscal year: Provided further, That
at a minimum the report shall include: (1) a
table for each appropriation with a separate
column to display the President’s budget re-
quest, adjustments made by Congress, ad-
justments due to enacted rescissions, if ap-
propriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
(2) a delineation in the table for each appro-
priation both by object class and program,
project, and activity as detailed in the budg-
et appendix for the respective appropriation;
and (3) an identification of items of special
congressional interest: Provided further, That
the amount appropriated or limited for sala-
ries and expenses for an agency shall be re-
duced by $100,000 per day for each day after
the required date that the report has not
been submitted to the Congress.
SEC. 609. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not to exceed 50 percent of
unobligated balances remaining available at
the end of fiscal year 2019 from appropria-
tions made available for salaries and ex-
penses for fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall
remain available through September 30, 2020,
for each such account for the purposes au-
thorized: Provided, That a request shall be
submitted to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate for approval prior to the expendi-
ture of such funds: Provided further, That
these requests shall be made in compliance
with reprogramming guidelines.
SEC. 610. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used by the Execu-
tive Office of the President to request—
(1) any official background investigation
report on any individual from the Federal
Bureau of Investigation; or
(2) a determination with respect to the
treatment of an organization as described in
section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 and exempt from taxation under sec-
tion 501(a) of such Code from the Department
of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue
Service.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply—
(1) in the case of an official background in-
vestigation report, if such individual has
given express written consent for such re-
quest not more than 6 months prior to the
date of such request and during the same
presidential administration; or
(2) if such request is required due to ex-
traordinary circumstances involving na-
tional security.
SEC. 611. The cost accounting standards
promulgated under chapter 15 of title 41,
United States Code shall not apply with re-
spect to a contract under the Federal Em-
ployees Health Benefits Program established
under chapter 89 of title 5, United States
Code.
SEC. 612. For the purpose of resolving liti-
gation and implementing any settlement
agreements regarding the nonforeign area
cost-of-living allowance program, the Office
of Personnel Management may accept and
utilize (without regard to any restriction on
unanticipated travel expenses imposed in an
Appropriations Act) funds made available to
the Office of Personnel Management pursu-
ant to court approval.
SEC. 613. No funds appropriated by this Act
shall be available to pay for an abortion, or
the administrative expenses in connection
with any health plan under the Federal em-
ployees health benefits program which pro-
vides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
SEC. 614. The provision of section 613 shall
not apply where the life of the mother would
be endangered if the fetus were carried to
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act
of rape or incest.
SEC. 615. In order to promote Government
access to commercial information tech-
nology, the restriction on purchasing non-
domestic articles, materials, and supplies set
forth in chapter 83 of title 41, United States
Code (popularly known as the Buy American
Act), shall not apply to the acquisition by
the Federal Government of information
technology (as defined in section 11101 of
title 40, United States Code), that is a com-
mercial item (as defined in section 103 of
title 41, United States Code).
SEC. 616. Notwithstanding section 1353 of
title 31, United States Code, no officer or em-
ployee of any regulatory agency or commis-
sion funded by this Act may accept on behalf
of that agency, nor may such agency or com-
mission accept, payment or reimbursement
from a non-Federal entity for travel, subsist-
ence, or related expenses for the purpose of
enabling an officer or employee to attend
and participate in any meeting or similar
function relating to the official duties of the
officer or employee when the entity offering
payment or reimbursement is a person or en-
tity subject to regulation by such agency or
commission, or represents a person or entity
subject to regulation by such agency or com-
mission, unless the person or entity is an or-
ganization described in section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and ex-
empt from tax under section 501(a) of such
Code.
SEC. 617. Notwithstanding section 708 of
this Act, funds made available to the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission and the
Securities and Exchange Commission by this
or any other Act may be used for the inter-
agency funding and sponsorship of a joint ad-
visory committee to advise on emerging reg-
ulatory issues.
SEC. 618. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, an Executive agency cov-
ered by this Act otherwise authorized to
enter into contracts for either leases or the
construction or alteration of real property
for office, meeting, storage, or other space
must consult with the General Services Ad-
ministration before issuing a solicitation for
offers of new leases or construction con-
tracts, and in the case of succeeding leases,
before entering into negotiations with the
current lessor.
(2) Any such agency with authority to
enter into an emergency lease may do so
during any period declared by the President
to require emergency leasing authority with
respect to such agency.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘‘Executive agency covered by this Act’’
means any Executive agency provided funds
by this Act, but does not include the General
Services Administration or the United
States Postal Service.
SEC. 619. (a) There are appropriated for the
following activities the amounts required
under current law:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H325
January 9, 2019
(1) Compensation of the President (3 U.S.C.
102).
(2) Payments to—
(A) the Judicial Officers’ Retirement Fund
(28 U.S.C. 377(o));
(B) the Judicial Survivors’ Annuities Fund
(28 U.S.C. 376(c)); and
(C) the United States Court of Federal
Claims Judges’ Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C.
178(l)).
(3) Payment of Government contribu-
tions—
(A) with respect to the health benefits of
retired employees, as authorized by chapter
89 of title 5, United States Code, and the Re-
tired Federal Employees Health Benefits Act
(74 Stat. 849); and
(B) with respect to the life insurance bene-
fits for employees retiring after December
31, 1989 (5 U.S.C. ch. 87).
(4) Payment to finance the unfunded liabil-
ity of new and increased annuity benefits
under the Civil Service Retirement and Dis-
ability Fund (5 U.S.C. 8348).
(5) Payment of annuities authorized to be
paid from the Civil Service Retirement and
Disability Fund by statutory provisions
other than subchapter III of chapter 83 or
chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
(b) Nothing in this section may be con-
strued to exempt any amount appropriated
by this section from any otherwise applica-
ble limitation on the use of funds contained
in this Act.
SEC. 620. In addition to amounts made
available in prior fiscal years, the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board
(Board) shall have authority to obligate
funds for the scholarship program estab-
lished by section 109(c)(2) of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002 (Public Law 107–204) in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the amount
of funds collected by the Board between Jan-
uary 1, 2018 and December 31, 2018, including
accrued interest, as a result of the assess-
ment of monetary penalties. Funds available
for obligation in fiscal year 2019 shall remain
available until expended.
SEC. 621. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by the Federal Trade
Commission to complete the draft report en-
titled ‘‘Interagency Working Group on Food
Marketed to Children: Preliminary Proposed
Nutrition Principles to Guide Industry Self-
Regulatory Efforts’’ unless the Interagency
Working Group on Food Marketed to Chil-
dren complies with Executive Order No.
13563.
SEC. 622. None of the funds in this Act may
be used for the Director of the Office of Per-
sonnel Management to award a contract,
enter an extension of, or exercise an option
on a contract to a contractor conducting the
final quality review processes for back-
ground investigation fieldwork services or
background investigation support services
that, as of the date of the award of the con-
tract, are being conducted by that con-
tractor.
SEC. 623. (a) The head of each executive
branch agency funded by this Act shall en-
sure that the Chief Information Officer of
the agency has the authority to participate
in decisions regarding the budget planning
process related to information technology.
(b) Amounts appropriated for any execu-
tive branch agency funded by this Act that
are available for information technology
shall be allocated within the agency, con-
sistent with the provisions of appropriations
Acts and budget guidelines and recommenda-
tions from the Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, in such manner as
specified by, or approved by, the Chief Infor-
mation Officer of the agency in consultation
with the Chief Financial Officer of the agen-
cy and budget officials.
SEC. 624. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used in contravention of
chapter 29, 31, or 33 of title 44, United States
Code.
SEC. 625. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used by a governmental
entity to require the disclosure by a provider
of electronic communication service to the
public or remote computing service of the
contents of a wire or electronic communica-
tion that is in electronic storage with the
provider (as such terms are defined in sec-
tions 2510 and 2711 of title 18, United States
Code) in a manner that violates the Fourth
Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
SEC. 626. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to modify, amend, or
change the rules or regulations of the Com-
mission for universal service high-cost sup-
port for competitive eligible telecommuni-
cations carriers in a way that is inconsistent
with paragraph (e)(5) or (e)(6) of section
54.307 of title 47, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, as in effect on July 15, 2015: Provided,
That this section shall not prohibit the Com-
mission from considering, developing, or
adopting other support mechanisms as an al-
ternative to Mobility Fund Phase II.
SEC. 627. No funds provided in this Act
shall be used to deny an Inspector General
funded under this Act timely access to any
records, documents, or other materials avail-
able to the department or agency over which
that Inspector General has responsibilities
under the Inspector General Act of 1978, or to
prevent or impede that Inspector General’s
access to such records, documents, or other
materials, under any provision of law, except
a provision of law that expressly refers to
the Inspector General and expressly limits
the Inspector General’s right of access. A de-
partment or agency covered by this section
shall provide its Inspector General with ac-
cess to all such records, documents, and
other materials in a timely manner. Each In-
spector General shall ensure compliance
with statutory limitations on disclosure rel-
evant to the information provided by the es-
tablishment over which that Inspector Gen-
eral has responsibilities under the Inspector
General Act of 1978. Each Inspector General
covered by this section shall report to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 5
calendar days any failures to comply with
this requirement.
SEC. 628. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, adjudication ac-
tivities, or other law enforcement- or victim
assistance-related activity.
SEC. 629. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be used by the Securities
and Exchange Commission to finalize, issue,
or implement any rule, regulation, or order
regarding the disclosure of political con-
tributions, contributions to tax exempt orga-
nizations, or dues paid to trade associations.
SEC. 630. None of the funds appropriated or
other-wise made available by this Act may
be used to pay award or incentive fees for
contractors whose performance has been
judged to be below satisfactory, behind
schedule, over budget, or has failed to meet
the basic requirements of a contract, unless
the Agency determines that any such devi-
ations are due to unforeseeable events, gov-
ernment-driven scope changes, or are not
significant within the overall scope of the
project and/or program and unless such
awards or incentive fees are consistent with
16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
SEC. 631. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able under this Act may be used to pay for
travel and conference activities that result
in a total cost to an Executive branch de-
partment, agency, board or commission of
more than $500,000 at any single conference
unless the head of the Executive branch de-
partment, agency, board, or commission de-
termines that such attendance is in the na-
tional interest and advance notice is trans-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate that includes the basis of that deter-
mination.
(b) None of the funds made available under
this Act may be used to pay for the travel to
or attendance of more than 50 employees,
who are stationed in the United States, at
any single conference occurring outside the
United States unless the head of the Execu-
tive branch department, agency, board, or
commission determines that such attendance
is in the national interest and advance no-
tice is transmitted to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate that includes the basis of
that determination.
SEC. 632. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available under this Act
may be used by departments and agencies
funded in this Act to acquire telecommuni-
cations equipment produced by Huawei Tech-
nologies Company, ZTE Corporation or a
high-impact or moderate-impact information
system, as defined for security categoriza-
tion in the National Institute of Standards
and Technology’s (NIST) Federal Informa-
tion Processing Standard Publication 199,
‘‘Standards for Security Categorization of
Federal Information and Information Sys-
tems’’ unless the agency has—
(1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the
information systems against criteria devel-
oped by NIST to inform acquisition decisions
for high-impact and moderate-impact infor-
mation systems within the Federal Govern-
ment;
(2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the
presumptive awardee against available and
relevant threat information provided by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and other
appropriate agencies; and
(3) in consultation with the Federal Bureau
of Investigation or other appropriate Federal
entity, conducted an assessment of any risk
of cyber-espionage or sabotage associated
with the acquisition of such system, includ-
ing any risk associated with such system
being produced, manufactured, or assembled
by one or more entities identified by the
United States Government as posing a cyber
threat, including but not limited to, those
that may be owned, directed, or subsidized
by the People’s Republic of China, the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic Peo-
ple’s Republic of Korea, or the Russian Fed-
eration.
(b) None of the funds appropriated or oth-
erwise made available under this Act may be
used to acquire a high-impact or moderate
impact information system reviewed and as-
sessed under subsection (a) unless the head
of the assessing entity described in sub-
section (a) has—
(1) developed, in consultation with NIST
and supply chain risk management experts, a
mitigation strategy for any identified risks;
(2) determined, in consultation with NIST
and the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
that the acquisition of such system is in the
vital national security interest of the United
States; and
(3) reported that determination to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate in a man-
ner that identifies the system intended for
acquisition and a detailed description of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H326 January 9, 2019
mitigation strategies identified in (1), pro-
vided that such report may include a classi-
fied annex as necessary.
SEC. 633. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be used for airline accom-
modations for any officer (as defined in sec-
tion 2104 of title 5, United States Code) or
employee (as defined in section 2105 of title
5, United States Code) in the executive
branch that are not coach-class accommoda-
tions (which term is defined, for purposes of
this section, as the basic class of accommo-
dation by airlines that is normally the low-
est fare offered regardless of airline termi-
nology used, and (as referred to by airlines)
may include tourist class or economy class,
as well as single class when the airline offers
only one class of accommodations to all
travelers), unless such accommodations are
consistent with section 301–10.123 of title 41,
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on
the date of enactment of this Act) and, with
respect to subsection (a)(3) and (b)(2) of such
section, written authorization is provided by
the head of the agency (or, if the accom-
modations are for the head of the agency, by
the Inspector General of the agency).
SEC. 634. The Comptroller General of the
United States, in consultation with relevant
regulators, shall conduct a study that—
(1) examines the financial impact of the
mineral pyrrhotite in concrete home founda-
tions; and
(2) provides recommendations on regu-
latory and legislative actions needed to help
mitigate the financial impact described in
paragraph (1) on banks, mortgage lenders,
tax revenues, and homeowners.
SEC. 635. The explanatory statement re-
garding division B of H.R. 21, printed in the
Congressional Record on January 3, 2019, and
submitted by the Chair of the Committee on
Appropriations, shall have the same effect
with respect to allocation of funds and im-
plementation of this Act as if it were a joint
explanatory statement of a committee of
conference.
SEC. 636. (a) Employees furloughed as a re-
sult of any lapse in appropriations beginning
on or about December 22, 2018 and ending on
the date of enactment of this Act shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation, for the period of such lapse in ap-
propriations, as soon as practicable after
such lapse in appropriations ends.
(b) For purposes of this section, ‘‘em-
ployee’’ means any of the following whose
salaries and expenses are provided in this
Act:
(1) A Federal employee.
(2) An employee of the District of Colum-
bia Courts.
(3) An employee of the Public Defender
Service for the District of Columbia.
(4) A District of Columbia Government em-
ployee.
(c) All obligations incurred in anticipation
of the appropriations made and authority
granted by this Act for the purposes of main-
taining the essential level of activity to pro-
tect life and property and bringing about or-
derly termination of Government functions,
and for purposes as otherwise authorized by
law, are hereby ratified and approved if oth-
erwise in accord with the provisions of this
Act.
SEC. 637. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘‘State’’ and the term ‘‘grantee,’’ including
United States territories and possessions,
shall have the meaning given such terms
under the applicable Federal program under
subsection (a). In addition, ‘‘to continue car-
rying out a Federal program’’ means the
continued performance by a State or other
Federal grantee, during the period of a lapse
in appropriations, of a Federal program that
the State or such other grantee had been
carrying out prior to the period of the lapse
in appropriations.
(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government receiv-
ing funding in this Act which, but for such
lapse in appropriations, would have paid, or
made reimbursement relating to, any of the
expenses referred to in this section with re-
spect to the program involved. Payments
and reimbursements under this authority
shall be made only to the extent and in
amounts provided in advance in appropria-
tions Acts.
TITLE VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS—GOVERNMENT-
WIDE
DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES, AND CORPORATIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
SEC. 701. No department, agency, or instru-
mentality of the United States receiving ap-
propriated funds under this or any other Act
for fiscal year 2019 shall obligate or expend
any such funds, unless such department,
agency, or instrumentality has in place, and
will continue to administer in good faith, a
written policy designed to ensure that all of
its workplaces are free from the illegal use,
possession, or distribution of controlled sub-
stances (as defined in the Controlled Sub-
stances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers
and employees of such department, agency,
or instrumentality.
SEC. 702. Unless otherwise specifically pro-
vided, the maximum amount allowable dur-
ing the current fiscal year in accordance
with subsection 1343(c) of title 31, United
States Code, for the purchase of any pas-
senger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, am-
bulances, law enforcement vehicles, protec-
tive vehicles, and undercover surveillance
vehicles), is hereby fixed at $19,947 except
station wagons for which the maximum shall
be $19,997: Provided, That these limits may be
exceeded by not to exceed $7,250 for police-
type vehicles: Provided further, That the lim-
its set forth in this section may not be ex-
ceeded by more than 5 percent for electric or
hybrid vehicles purchased for demonstration
under the provisions of the Electric and Hy-
brid Vehicle Research, Development, and
Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further,
That the limits set forth in this section may
be exceeded by the incremental cost of clean
alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant
to Public Law 101–549 over the cost of com-
parable conventionally fueled vehicles: Pro-
vided further, That the limits set forth in this
section shall not apply to any vehicle that is
a commercial item and which operates on al-
ternative fuel, including but not limited to
electric, plug-in hybrid electric, and hydro-
gen fuel cell vehicles.
SEC. 703. Appropriations of the executive
departments and independent establishments
for the current fiscal year available for ex-
penses of travel, or for the expenses of the
activity concerned, are hereby made avail-
able for quarters allowances and cost-of-liv-
ing allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C.
5922–5924.
SEC. 704. Unless otherwise specified in law
during the current fiscal year, no part of any
appropriation contained in this or any other
Act shall be used to pay the compensation of
any officer or employee of the Government
of the United States (including any agency
the majority of the stock of which is owned
by the Government of the United States)
whose post of duty is in the continental
United States unless such person: (1) is a cit-
izen of the United States; (2) is a person who
is lawfully admitted for permanent residence
and is seeking citizenship as outlined in 8
U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a person who is
admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or
is granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158 and has
filed a declaration of intention to become a
lawful permanent resident and then a citizen
when eligible; or (4) is a person who owes al-
legiance to the United States: Provided, That
for purposes of this section, affidavits signed
by any such person shall be considered prima
facie evidence that the requirements of this
section with respect to his or her status are
being complied with: Provided further, That
for purposes of subsections (2) and (3) such
affidavits shall be submitted prior to em-
ployment and updated thereafter as nec-
essary: Provided further, That any person
making a false affidavit shall be guilty of a
felony, and upon conviction, shall be fined no
more than $4,000 or imprisoned for not more
than 1 year, or both: Provided further, That
the above penal clause shall be in addition
to, and not in substitution for, any other
provisions of existing law: Provided further,
That any payment made to any officer or
employee contrary to the provisions of this
section shall be recoverable in action by the
Federal Government: Provided further, That
this section shall not apply to any person
who is an officer or employee of the Govern-
ment of the United States on the date of en-
actment of this Act, or to international
broadcasters employed by the Broadcasting
Board of Governors, or to temporary employ-
ment of translators, or to temporary em-
ployment in the field service (not to exceed
60 days) as a result of emergencies: Provided
further, That this section does not apply to
the employment as Wildland firefighters for
not more than 120 days of nonresident aliens
employed by the Department of the Interior
or the USDA Forest Service pursuant to an
agreement with another country.
SEC. 705. Appropriations available to any
department or agency during the current fis-
cal year for necessary expenses, including
maintenance or operating expenses, shall
also be available for payment to the General
Services Administration for charges for
space and services and those expenses of ren-
ovation and alteration of buildings and fa-
cilities which constitute public improve-
ments performed in accordance with the
Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479),
the Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86
Stat. 216), or other applicable law.
SEC. 706. In addition to funds provided in
this or any other Act, all Federal agencies
are authorized to receive and use funds re-
sulting from the sale of materials, including
Federal records disposed of pursuant to a
records schedule recovered through recycling
or waste prevention programs. Such funds
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H327
January 9, 2019
shall be available until expended for the fol-
lowing purposes:
(1) Acquisition, waste reduction and pre-
vention, and recycling programs as described
in Executive Order No. 13693 (March 19, 2015),
including any such programs adopted prior
to the effective date of the Executive order.
(2) Other Federal agency environmental
management programs, including, but not
limited to, the development and implemen-
tation of hazardous waste management and
pollution prevention programs.
(3) Other employee programs as authorized
by law or as deemed appropriate by the head
of the Federal agency.
SEC. 707. Funds made available by this or
any other Act for administrative expenses in
the current fiscal year of the corporations
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31,
United States Code, shall be available, in ad-
dition to objects for which such funds are
otherwise available, for rent in the District
of Columbia; services in accordance with 5
U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under
this head, all the provisions of which shall be
applicable to the expenditure of such funds
unless otherwise specified in the Act by
which they are made available: Provided,
That in the event any functions budgeted as
administrative expenses are subsequently
transferred to or paid from other funds, the
limitations on administrative expenses shall
be correspondingly reduced.
SEC. 708. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be
available for interagency financing of boards
(except Federal Executive Boards), commis-
sions, councils, committees, or similar
groups (whether or not they are interagency
entities) which do not have a prior and spe-
cific statutory approval to receive financial
support from more than one agency or in-
strumentality.
SEC. 709. None of the funds made available
pursuant to the provisions of this or any
other Act shall be used to implement, admin-
ister, or enforce any regulation which has
been disapproved pursuant to a joint resolu-
tion duly adopted in accordance with the ap-
plicable law of the United States.
SEC. 710. During the period in which the
head of any department or agency, or any
other officer or civilian employee of the Fed-
eral Government appointed by the President
of the United States, holds office, no funds
may be obligated or expended in excess of
$5,000 to furnish or redecorate the office of
such department head, agency head, officer,
or employee, or to purchase furniture or
make improvements for any such office, un-
less advance notice of such furnishing or re-
decoration is transmitted to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate. For the purposes of
this section, the term ‘‘office’’ shall include
the entire suite of offices assigned to the in-
dividual, as well as any other space used pri-
marily by the individual or the use of which
is directly controlled by the individual.
SEC. 711. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or
section 708 of this Act, funds made available
for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act shall be available for the inter-
agency funding of national security and
emergency preparedness telecommunications
initiatives which benefit multiple Federal
departments, agencies, or entities, as pro-
vided by Executive Order No. 13618 (July 6,
2012).
SEC. 712. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be obli-
gated or expended by any department, agen-
cy, or other instrumentality of the Federal
Government to pay the salaries or expenses
of any individual appointed to a position of
a confidential or policy-determining char-
acter that is excepted from the competitive
service under section 3302 of title 5, United
States Code, (pursuant to schedule C of sub-
part C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of
Federal Regulations) unless the head of the
applicable department, agency, or other in-
strumentality employing such schedule C in-
dividual certifies to the Director of the Of-
fice of Personnel Management that the
schedule C position occupied by the indi-
vidual was not created solely or primarily in
order to detail the individual to the White
House.
(b) The provisions of this section shall not
apply to Federal employees or members of
the armed forces detailed to or from an ele-
ment of the intelligence community (as that
term is defined under section 3(4) of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3003(4))).
SEC. 713. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be
available for the payment of the salary of
any officer or employee of the Federal Gov-
ernment, who—
(1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or
threatens to prohibit or prevent, any other
officer or employee of the Federal Govern-
ment from having any direct oral or written
communication or contact with any Member,
committee, or subcommittee of the Congress
in connection with any matter pertaining to
the employment of such other officer or em-
ployee or pertaining to the department or
agency of such other officer or employee in
any way, irrespective of whether such com-
munication or contact is at the initiative of
such other officer or employee or in response
to the request or inquiry of such Member,
committee, or subcommittee; or
(2) removes, suspends from duty without
pay, demotes, reduces in rank, seniority, sta-
tus, pay, or performance or efficiency rating,
denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns,
transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in re-
gard to any employment right, entitlement,
or benefit, or any term or condition of em-
ployment of, any other officer or employee
of the Federal Government, or attempts or
threatens to commit any of the foregoing ac-
tions with respect to such other officer or
employee, by reason of any communication
or contact of such other officer or employee
with any Member, committee, or sub-
committee of the Congress as described in
paragraph (1).
SEC. 714. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this or any other Act may be obli-
gated or expended for any employee training
that—
(1) does not meet identified needs for
knowledge, skills, and abilities bearing di-
rectly upon the performance of official du-
ties;
(2) contains elements likely to induce high
levels of emotional response or psychological
stress in some participants;
(3) does not require prior employee notifi-
cation of the content and methods to be used
in the training and written end of course
evaluation;
(4) contains any methods or content associ-
ated with religious or quasi-religious belief
systems or ‘‘new age’’ belief systems as de-
fined in Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission Notice N–915.022, dated Sep-
tember 2, 1988; or
(5) is offensive to, or designed to change,
participants’ personal values or lifestyle out-
side the workplace.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict, or otherwise preclude an agency
from conducting training bearing directly
upon the performance of official duties.
SEC. 715. No part of any funds appropriated
in this or any other Act shall be used by an
agency of the executive branch, other than
for normal and recognized executive-legisla-
tive relationships, for publicity or propa-
ganda purposes, and for the preparation, dis-
tribution or use of any kit, pamphlet, book-
let, publication, radio, television, or film
presentation designed to support or defeat
legislation pending before the Congress, ex-
cept in presentation to the Congress itself.
SEC. 716. None of the funds appropriated by
this or any other Act may be used by an
agency to provide a Federal employee’s
home address to any labor organization ex-
cept when the employee has authorized such
disclosure or when such disclosure has been
ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
SEC. 717. None of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to pro-
vide any non-public information such as
mailing, telephone or electronic mailing
lists to any person or any organization out-
side of the Federal Government without the
approval of the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate.
SEC. 718. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this or any other Act shall be used
directly or indirectly, including by private
contractor, for publicity or propaganda pur-
poses within the United States not here-
tofore authorized by Congress.
SEC. 719. (a) In this section, the term
‘‘agency’’—
(1) means an Executive agency, as defined
under 5 U.S.C. 105; and
(2) includes a military department, as de-
fined under section 102 of such title, the
United States Postal Service, and the Postal
Regulatory Commission.
(b) Unless authorized in accordance with
law or regulations to use such time for other
purposes, an employee of an agency shall use
official time in an honest effort to perform
official duties. An employee not under a
leave system, including a Presidential ap-
pointee exempted under 5 U.S.C. 6301(2), has
an obligation to expend an honest effort and
a reasonable proportion of such employee’s
time in the performance of official duties.
SEC. 720. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346
and section 708 of this Act, funds made avail-
able for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act to any department or agency,
which is a member of the Federal Account-
ing Standards Advisory Board (FASAB),
shall be available to finance an appropriate
share of FASAB administrative costs.
SEC. 721. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346
and section 708 of this Act, the head of each
Executive department and agency is hereby
authorized to transfer to or reimburse ‘‘Gen-
eral Services Administration, Government-
wide Policy’’ with the approval of the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget,
funds made available for the current fiscal
year by this or any other Act, including re-
bates from charge card and other contracts:
Provided, That these funds shall be adminis-
tered by the Administrator of General Serv-
ices to support Government-wide and other
multi-agency financial, information tech-
nology, procurement, and other management
innovations, initiatives, and activities, in-
cluding improving coordination and reducing
duplication, as approved by the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, in
consultation with the appropriate inter-
agency and multi-agency groups designated
by the Director (including the President’s
Management Council for overall manage-
ment improvement initiatives, the Chief Fi-
nancial Officers Council for financial man-
agement initiatives, the Chief Information
Officers Council for information technology
initiatives, the Chief Human Capital Officers
Council for human capital initiatives, the
Chief Acquisition Officers Council for pro-
curement initiatives, and the Performance
Improvement Council for performance im-
provement initiatives): Provided further,
That the total funds transferred or reim-
bursed shall not exceed $15,000,000 to improve
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H328 January 9, 2019
coordination, reduce duplication, and for
other activities related to Federal Govern-
ment Priority Goals established by 31 U.S.C.
1120, and not to exceed $17,000,000 for Govern-
ment-Wide innovations, initiatives, and ac-
tivities: Provided further, That the funds
transferred to or for reimbursement of ‘‘Gen-
eral Services Administration, Government-
wide Policy’’ during fiscal year 2019 shall re-
main available for obligation through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided further, That such
transfers or reimbursements may only be
made after 15 days following notification of
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate by
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget.
SEC. 722. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, a woman may breastfeed her
child at any location in a Federal building or
on Federal property, if the woman and her
child are otherwise authorized to be present
at the location.
SEC. 723. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or
section 708 of this Act, funds made available
for the current fiscal year by this or any
other Act shall be available for the inter-
agency funding of specific projects, work-
shops, studies, and similar efforts to carry
out the purposes of the National Science and
Technology Council (authorized by Execu-
tive Order No. 12881), which benefit multiple
Federal departments, agencies, or entities:
Provided, That the Office of Management and
Budget shall provide a report describing the
budget of and resources connected with the
National Science and Technology Council to
the Committees on Appropriations, the
House Committee on Science and Tech-
nology, and the Senate Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation 90 days
after enactment of this Act.
SEC. 724. Any request for proposals, solici-
tation, grant application, form, notification,
press release, or other publications involving
the distribution of Federal funds shall com-
ply with any relevant requirements in part
200 of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations:
Provided, That this section shall apply to di-
rect payments, formula funds, and grants re-
ceived by a State receiving Federal funds.
SEC. 725. (a) PROHIBITION OF FEDERAL AGEN-
CY MONITORING OF INDIVIDUALS’ INTERNET
USE.—None of the funds made available in
this or any other Act may be used by any
Federal agency—
(1) to collect, review, or create any aggre-
gation of data, derived from any means, that
includes any personally identifiable informa-
tion relating to an individual’s access to or
use of any Federal Government Internet site
of the agency; or
(2) to enter into any agreement with a
third party (including another government
agency) to collect, review, or obtain any ag-
gregation of data, derived from any means,
that includes any personally identifiable in-
formation relating to an individual’s access
to or use of any nongovernmental Internet
site.
(b) EXCEPTIONS.—The limitations estab-
lished in subsection (a) shall not apply to—
(1) any record of aggregate data that does
not identify particular persons;
(2) any voluntary submission of personally
identifiable information;
(3) any action taken for law enforcement,
regulatory, or supervisory purposes, in ac-
cordance with applicable law; or
(4) any action described in subsection (a)(1)
that is a system security action taken by the
operator of an Internet site and is nec-
essarily incident to providing the Internet
site services or to protecting the rights or
property of the provider of the Internet site.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For the purposes of this
section:
(1) The term ‘‘regulatory’’ means agency
actions to implement, interpret or enforce
authorities provided in law.
(2) The term ‘‘supervisory’’ means exami-
nations of the agency’s supervised institu-
tions, including assessing safety and sound-
ness, overall financial condition, manage-
ment practices and policies and compliance
with applicable standards as provided in law.
SEC. 726. (a) None of the funds appropriated
by this Act may be used to enter into or
renew a contract which includes a provision
providing prescription drug coverage, except
where the contract also includes a provision
for contraceptive coverage.
(b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a
contract with—
(1) any of the following religious plans:
(A) Personal Care’s HMO; and
(B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
(2) any existing or future plan, if the car-
rier for the plan objects to such coverage on
the basis of religious beliefs.
(c) In implementing this section, any plan
that enters into or renews a contract under
this section may not subject any individual
to discrimination on the basis that the indi-
vidual refuses to prescribe or otherwise pro-
vide for contraceptives because such activi-
ties would be contrary to the individual’s re-
ligious beliefs or moral convictions.
(d) Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to require coverage of abortion or
abortion-related services.
SEC. 727. The United States is committed
to ensuring the health of its Olympic, Pan
American, and Paralympic athletes, and sup-
ports the strict adherence to anti-doping in
sport through testing, adjudication, edu-
cation, and research as performed by nation-
ally recognized oversight authorities.
SEC. 728. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, funds appropriated for official
travel to Federal departments and agencies
may be used by such departments and agen-
cies, if consistent with Office of Management
and Budget Circular A–126 regarding official
travel for Government personnel, to partici-
pate in the fractional aircraft ownership
pilot program.
SEC. 729. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds appropriated or
made available under this or any other ap-
propriations Act may be used to implement
or enforce restrictions or limitations on the
Coast Guard Congressional Fellowship Pro-
gram, or to implement the proposed regula-
tions of the Office of Personnel Management
to add sections 300.311 through 300.316 to part
300 of title 5 of the Code of Federal Regula-
tions, published in the Federal Register, vol-
ume 68, number 174, on September 9, 2003 (re-
lating to the detail of executive branch em-
ployees to the legislative branch).
SEC. 730. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, no executive branch agency shall
purchase, construct, or lease any additional
facilities, except within or contiguous to ex-
isting locations, to be used for the purpose of
conducting Federal law enforcement train-
ing without the advance approval of the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate, except
that the Federal Law Enforcement Training
Center is authorized to obtain the temporary
use of additional facilities by lease, contract,
or other agreement for training which can-
not be accommodated in existing Center fa-
cilities.
SEC. 731. Unless otherwise authorized by
existing law, none of the funds provided in
this or any other Act may be used by an ex-
ecutive branch agency to produce any pre-
packaged news story intended for broadcast
or distribution in the United States, unless
the story includes a clear notification within
the text or audio of the prepackaged news
story that the prepackaged news story was
prepared or funded by that executive branch
agency.
SEC. 732. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used in contravention of
section 552a of title 5, United States Code
(popularly known as the Privacy Act), and
regulations implementing that section.
SEC. 733. (a) IN GENERAL.—None of the
funds appropriated or otherwise made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be used for
any Federal Government contract with any
foreign incorporated entity which is treated
as an inverted domestic corporation under
section 835(b) of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or any subsidiary of
such an entity.
(b) WAIVERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Any Secretary shall waive
subsection (a) with respect to any Federal
Government contract under the authority of
such Secretary if the Secretary determines
that the waiver is required in the interest of
national security.
(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Any Secretary
issuing a waiver under paragraph (1) shall re-
port such issuance to Congress.
(c) EXCEPTION.—This section shall not
apply to any Federal Government contract
entered into before the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, or to any task order issued
pursuant to such contract.
SEC. 734. During fiscal year 2019, for each
employee who—
(1) retires under section 8336(d)(2) or
8414(b)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code; or
(2) retires under any other provision of
subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of
such title 5 and receives a payment as an in-
centive to separate, the separating agency
shall remit to the Civil Service Retirement
and Disability Fund an amount equal to the
Office of Personnel Management’s average
unit cost of processing a retirement claim
for the preceding fiscal year. Such amounts
shall be available until expended to the Of-
fice of Personnel Management and shall be
deemed to be an administrative expense
under section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United
States Code.
SEC. 735. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this or any other Act may be used to
recommend or require any entity submitting
an offer for a Federal contract to disclose
any of the following information as a condi-
tion of submitting the offer:
(1) Any payment consisting of a contribu-
tion, expenditure, independent expenditure,
or disbursement for an electioneering com-
munication that is made by the entity, its
officers or directors, or any of its affiliates
or subsidiaries to a candidate for election for
Federal office or to a political committee, or
that is otherwise made with respect to any
election for Federal office.
(2) Any disbursement of funds (other than
a payment described in paragraph (1)) made
by the entity, its officers or directors, or any
of its affiliates or subsidiaries to any person
with the intent or the reasonable expecta-
tion that the person will use the funds to
make a payment described in paragraph (1).
(b) In this section, each of the terms ‘‘con-
tribution’’, ‘‘expenditure’’, ‘‘independent ex-
penditure’’, ‘‘electioneering communica-
tion’’, ‘‘candidate’’, ‘‘election’’, and ‘‘Federal
office’’ has the meaning given such term in
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30101 et seq.).
SEC. 736. None of the funds made available
in this or any other Act may be used to pay
for the painting of a portrait of an officer or
employee of the Federal government, includ-
ing the President, the Vice President, a
member of Congress (including a Delegate or
a Resident Commissioner to Congress), the
head of an executive branch agency (as de-
fined in section 133 of title 41, United States
Code), or the head of an office of the legisla-
tive branch.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H329
January 9, 2019
SEC. 737. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, and except as otherwise
provided in this section, no part of any of the
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2019, by
this or any other Act, may be used to pay
any prevailing rate employee described in
section 5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States
Code—
(A) during the period from the date of expi-
ration of the limitation imposed by the com-
parable section for the previous fiscal years
until the normal effective date of the appli-
cable wage survey adjustment that is to take
effect in fiscal year 2019, in an amount that
exceeds the rate payable for the applicable
grade and step of the applicable wage sched-
ule in accordance with such section; and
(B) during the period consisting of the re-
mainder of fiscal year 2019, in an amount
that exceeds, as a result of a wage survey ad-
justment, the rate payable under subpara-
graph (A) by more than the sum of—
(i) the percentage adjustment taking effect
in fiscal year 2019 under section 5303 of title
5, United States Code, in the rates of pay
under the General Schedule; and
(ii) the difference between the overall aver-
age percentage of the locality-based com-
parability payments taking effect in fiscal
year 2019 under section 5304 of such title
(whether by adjustment or otherwise), and
the overall average percentage of such pay-
ments which was effective in the previous
fiscal year under such section.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, no prevailing rate employee described in
subparagraph (B) or (C) of section 5342(a)(2)
of title 5, United States Code, and no em-
ployee covered by section 5348 of such title,
may be paid during the periods for which
paragraph (1) is in effect at a rate that ex-
ceeds the rates that would be payable under
paragraph (1) were paragraph (1) applicable
to such employee.
(3) For the purposes of this subsection, the
rates payable to an employee who is covered
by this subsection and who is paid from a
schedule not in existence on September 30,
2018, shall be determined under regulations
prescribed by the Office of Personnel Man-
agement.
(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, rates of premium pay for employees sub-
ject to this subsection may not be changed
from the rates in effect on September 30,
2018, except to the extent determined by the
Office of Personnel Management to be con-
sistent with the purpose of this subsection.
(5) This subsection shall apply with respect
to pay for service performed after September
30, 2018.
(6) For the purpose of administering any
provision of law (including any rule or regu-
lation that provides premium pay, retire-
ment, life insurance, or any other employee
benefit) that requires any deduction or con-
tribution, or that imposes any requirement
or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary
or basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay
payable after the application of this sub-
section shall be treated as the rate of salary
or basic pay.
(7) Nothing in this subsection shall be con-
sidered to permit or require the payment to
any employee covered by this subsection at a
rate in excess of the rate that would be pay-
able were this subsection not in effect.
(8) The Office of Personnel Management
may provide for exceptions to the limita-
tions imposed by this subsection if the Office
determines that such exceptions are nec-
essary to ensure the recruitment or reten-
tion of qualified employees.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the ad-
justment in rates of basic pay for the statu-
tory pay systems that take place in fiscal
year 2019 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title
5, United States Code, shall be—
(1) not less than the percentage received by
employees in the same location whose rates
of basic pay are adjusted pursuant to the
statutory pay systems under sections 5303
and 5304 of title 5, United States Code: Pro-
vided, That prevailing rate employees at lo-
cations where there are no employees whose
pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303
and 5304 of title 5, United States Code, and
prevailing rate employees described in sec-
tion 5343(a)(5) of title 5, United States Code,
shall be considered to be located in the pay
locality designated as ‘‘Rest of United
States’’ pursuant to section 5304 of title 5,
United States Code, for purposes of this sub-
section; and
(2) effective as of the first day of the first
applicable pay period beginning after Sep-
tember 30, 2018.
SEC. 738. (a) The Vice President may not
receive a pay raise in calendar year 2019, not-
withstanding the rate adjustment made
under section 104 of title 3, United States
Code, or any other provision of law.
(b) An employee serving in an Executive
Schedule position, or in a position for which
the rate of pay is fixed by statute at an Ex-
ecutive Schedule rate, may not receive a pay
rate increase in calendar year 2019, notwith-
standing schedule adjustments made under
section 5318 of title 5, United States Code, or
any other provision of law, except as pro-
vided in subsection (g), (h), or (i). This sub-
section applies only to employees who are
holding a position under a political appoint-
ment.
(c) A chief of mission or ambassador at
large may not receive a pay rate increase in
calendar year 2019, notwithstanding section
401 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public
Law 96–465) or any other provision of law, ex-
cept as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i).
(d) Notwithstanding sections 5382 and 5383
of title 5, United States Code, a pay rate in-
crease may not be received in calendar year
2019 (except as provided in subsection (g), (h),
or (i)) by—
(1) a noncareer appointee in the Senior Ex-
ecutive Service paid a rate of basic pay at or
above level IV of the Executive Schedule; or
(2) a limited term appointee or limited
emergency appointee in the Senior Execu-
tive Service serving under a political ap-
pointment and paid a rate of basic pay at or
above level IV of the Executive Schedule.
(e) Any employee paid a rate of basic pay
(including any locality-based payments
under section 5304 of title 5, United States
Code, or similar authority) at or above level
IV of the Executive Schedule who serves
under a political appointment may not re-
ceive a pay rate increase in calendar year
2019, notwithstanding any other provision of
law, except as provided in subsection (g), (h),
or (i). This subsection does not apply to em-
ployees in the General Schedule pay system
or the Foreign Service pay system, or to em-
ployees appointed under section 3161 of title
5, United States Code, or to employees in an-
other pay system whose position would be
classified at GS–15 or below if chapter 51 of
title 5, United States Code, applied to them.
(f) Nothing in subsections (b) through (e)
shall prevent employees who do not serve
under a political appointment from receiving
pay increases as otherwise provided under
applicable law.
(g) A career appointee in the Senior Execu-
tive Service who receives a Presidential ap-
pointment and who makes an election to re-
tain Senior Executive Service basic pay enti-
tlements under section 3392 of title 5, United
States Code, is not subject to this section.
(h) A member of the Senior Foreign Serv-
ice who receives a Presidential appointment
to any position in the executive branch and
who makes an election to retain Senior For-
eign Service pay entitlements under section
302(b) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980
(Public Law 96–465) is not subject to this sec-
tion.
(i) Notwithstanding subsections (b)
through (e), an employee in a covered posi-
tion may receive a pay rate increase upon an
authorized movement to a different covered
position with higher-level duties and a pre-
established higher level or range of pay, ex-
cept that any such increase must be based on
the rates of pay and applicable pay limita-
tions in effect on December 31, 2013.
(j) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, for an individual who is newly appointed
to a covered position during the period of
time subject to this section, the initial pay
rate shall be based on the rates of pay and
applicable pay limitations in effect on De-
cember 31, 2013.
(k) If an employee affected by subsections
(b) through (e) is subject to a biweekly pay
period that begins in calendar year 2019 but
ends in calendar year 2020, the bar on the em-
ployee’s receipt of pay rate increases shall
apply through the end of that pay period.
SEC. 739. (a) The head of any Executive
branch department, agency, board, commis-
sion, or office funded by this or any other ap-
propriations Act shall submit annual reports
to the Inspector General or senior ethics offi-
cial for any entity without an Inspector Gen-
eral, regarding the costs and contracting
procedures related to each conference held
by any such department, agency, board, com-
mission, or office during fiscal year 2019 for
which the cost to the United States Govern-
ment was more than $100,000.
(b) Each report submitted shall include, for
each conference described in subsection (a)
held during the applicable period—
(1) a description of its purpose;
(2) the number of participants attending;
(3) a detailed statement of the costs to the
United States Government, including—
(A) the cost of any food or beverages;
(B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
(C) the cost of employee or contractor
travel to and from the conference; and
(D) a discussion of the methodology used
to determine which costs relate to the con-
ference; and
(4) a description of the contracting proce-
dures used including—
(A) whether contracts were awarded on a
competitive basis; and
(B) a discussion of any cost comparison
conducted by the departmental component
or office in evaluating potential contractors
for the conference.
(c) Within 15 days after the end of a quar-
ter, the head of any such department, agen-
cy, board, commission, or office shall notify
the Inspector General or senior ethics offi-
cial for any entity without an Inspector Gen-
eral, of the date, location, and number of em-
ployees attending a conference held by any
Executive branch department, agency, board,
commission, or office funded by this or any
other appropriations Act during fiscal year
2019 for which the cost to the United States
Government was more than $20,000.
(d) A grant or contract funded by amounts
appropriated by this or any other appropria-
tions Act may not be used for the purpose of
defraying the costs of a conference described
in subsection (c) that is not directly and pro-
grammatically related to the purpose for
which the grant or contract was awarded,
such as a conference held in connection with
planning, training, assessment, review, or
other routine purposes related to a project
funded by the grant or contract.
(e) None of the funds made available in this
or any other appropriations Act may be used
for travel and conference activities that are
not in compliance with Office of Manage-
ment and Budget Memorandum M–12–12
dated May 11, 2012 or any subsequent revi-
sions to that memorandum.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H330 January 9, 2019
SEC. 740. None of the funds made available
in this or any other appropriations Act may
be used to increase, eliminate, or reduce
funding for a program, project, or activity as
proposed in the President’s budget request
for a fiscal year until such proposed change
is subsequently enacted in an appropriation
Act, or unless such change is made pursuant
to the reprogramming or transfer provisions
of this or any other appropriations Act.
SEC. 741. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to im-
plement, administer, enforce, or apply the
rule entitled ‘‘Competitive Area’’ published
by the Office of Personnel Management in
the Federal Register on April 15, 2008 (73 Fed.
Reg. 20180 et seq.).
SEC. 742. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be used to begin or announce
a study or public-private competition re-
garding the conversion to contractor per-
formance of any function performed by Fed-
eral employees pursuant to Office of Manage-
ment and Budget Circular A–76 or any other
administrative regulation, directive, or pol-
icy.
SEC. 743. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this or any
other Act may be available for a contract,
grant, or cooperative agreement with an en-
tity that requires employees or contractors
of such entity seeking to report fraud, waste,
or abuse to sign internal confidentiality
agreements or statements prohibiting or
otherwise restricting such employees or con-
tractors from lawfully reporting such waste,
fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative
or law enforcement representative of a Fed-
eral department or agency authorized to re-
ceive such information.
(b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall
not contravene requirements applicable to
Standard Form 312, Form 4414, or any other
form issued by a Federal department or
agency governing the nondisclosure of classi-
fied information.
SEC. 744. (a) No funds appropriated in this
or any other Act may be used to implement
or enforce the agreements in Standard
Forms 312 and 4414 of the Government or any
other nondisclosure policy, form, or agree-
ment if such policy, form, or agreement does
not contain the following provisions: ‘‘These
provisions are consistent with and do not su-
persede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the
employee obligations, rights, or liabilities
created by existing statute or Executive
order relating to (1) classified information,
(2) communications to Congress, (3) the re-
porting to an Inspector General of a viola-
tion of any law, rule, or regulation, or mis-
management, a gross waste of funds, an
abuse of authority, or a substantial and spe-
cific danger to public health or safety, or (4)
any other whistleblower protection. The
definitions, requirements, obligations,
rights, sanctions, and liabilities created by
controlling Executive orders and statutory
provisions are incorporated into this agree-
ment and are controlling.’’: Provided, That
notwithstanding the preceding provision of
this section, a nondisclosure policy form or
agreement that is to be executed by a person
connected with the conduct of an intel-
ligence or intelligence-related activity,
other than an employee or officer of the
United States Government, may contain pro-
visions appropriate to the particular activity
for which such document is to be used. Such
form or agreement shall, at a minimum, re-
quire that the person will not disclose any
classified information received in the course
of such activity unless specifically author-
ized to do so by the United States Govern-
ment. Such nondisclosure forms shall also
make it clear that they do not bar disclo-
sures to Congress, or to an authorized offi-
cial of an executive agency or the Depart-
ment of Justice, that are essential to report-
ing a substantial violation of law.
(b) A nondisclosure agreement may con-
tinue to be implemented and enforced not-
withstanding subsection (a) if it complies
with the requirements for such agreement
that were in effect when the agreement was
entered into.
(c) No funds appropriated in this or any
other Act may be used to implement or en-
force any agreement entered into during fis-
cal year 2014 which does not contain substan-
tially similar language to that required in
subsection (a).
SEC. 745. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
enter into a contract, memorandum of un-
derstanding, or cooperative agreement with,
make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan
guarantee to, any corporation that has any
unpaid Federal tax liability that has been as-
sessed, for which all judicial and administra-
tive remedies have been exhausted or have
lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely
manner pursuant to an agreement with the
authority responsible for collecting the tax
liability, where the awarding agency is
aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless a
Federal agency has considered suspension or
debarment of the corporation and has made
a determination that this further action is
not necessary to protect the interests of the
Government.
SEC. 746. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
enter into a contract, memorandum of un-
derstanding, or cooperative agreement with,
make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan
guarantee to, any corporation that was con-
victed of a felony criminal violation under
any Federal law within the preceding 24
months, where the awarding agency is aware
of the conviction, unless a Federal agency
has considered suspension or debarment of
the corporation and has made a determina-
tion that this further action is not necessary
to protect the interests of the Government.
SEC. 747. (a) During fiscal year 2019, on the
date on which a request is made for a trans-
fer of funds in accordance with section 1017
of Public Law 111–203, the Bureau of Con-
sumer Financial Protection shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate, the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives, and the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate of such request.
(b) Any notification required by this sec-
tion shall be made available on the Bureau’s
public Web site.
SEC. 748. If, for fiscal year 2019, new budget
authority provided in appropriations Acts
exceeds the discretionary spending limit for
any category set forth in section 251(c) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 due to estimating dif-
ferences with the Congressional Budget Of-
fice, an adjustment to the discretionary
spending limit in such category for fiscal
year 2019 shall be made by the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget in the
amount of the excess but the total of all
such adjustments shall not exceed 0.2 per-
cent of the sum of the adjusted discretionary
spending limits for all categories for that fis-
cal year.
SEC. 749. (a) The adjustment in rates of
basic pay for employees under the statutory
pay systems that takes effect in fiscal year
2019 under section 5303 of title 5, United
States Code, shall be an increase of 1.4 per-
cent, and the overall average percentage of
the adjustments taking effect in such fiscal
year under sections 5304 and 5304a of such
title 5 shall be an increase of 0.5 percent
(with comparability payments to be deter-
mined and allocated among pay localities by
the President). All adjustments under this
subsection shall be effective as of the first
day of the first applicable pay period begin-
ning on or after January 1, 2019.
(b) Notwithstanding section 737, the ad-
justment in rates of basic pay for the statu-
tory pay systems that take place in fiscal
year 2019 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title
5, United States Code, shall be no less than
the percentages in subsection (a) as employ-
ees in the same location whose rates of basic
pay are adjusted pursuant to the statutory
pay systems under section 5303, 5304, and
5304a of title 5, United States Code. Pre-
vailing rate employees at locations where
there are no employees whose pay is in-
creased pursuant to sections 5303, 5304, and
5304a of such title 5 and prevailing rate em-
ployees described in section 5343(a)(5) of such
title 5 shall be considered to be located in
the pay locality designated as ″Rest of U.S.″
pursuant to section 5304 of such title 5 for
purposes of this subsection.
(c) Funds used to carry out this section
shall be paid from appropriations, which are
made to each applicable department or agen-
cy for salaries and expenses for fiscal year
2019.
SEC. 750. Except as expressly provided oth-
erwise, any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ con-
tained in any title other than title IV or VIII
shall not apply to such title IV or VIII.
TITLE VIII
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
SEC. 801. There are appropriated from the
applicable funds of the District of Columbia
such sums as may be necessary for making
refunds and for the payment of legal settle-
ments or judgments that have been entered
against the District of Columbia govern-
ment.
SEC. 802. None of the Federal funds pro-
vided in this Act shall be used for publicity
or propaganda purposes or implementation
of any policy including boycott designed to
support or defeat legislation pending before
Congress or any State legislature.
SEC. 803. (a) None of the Federal funds pro-
vided under this Act to the agencies funded
by this Act, both Federal and District gov-
ernment agencies, that remain available for
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2019,
or provided from any accounts in the Treas-
ury of the United States derived by the col-
lection of fees available to the agencies fund-
ed by this Act, shall be available for obliga-
tion or expenditures for an agency through a
reprogramming of funds which—
(1) creates new programs;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or re-
sponsibility center;
(3) establishes or changes allocations spe-
cifically denied, limited or increased under
this Act;
(4) increases funds or personnel by any
means for any program, project, or responsi-
bility center for which funds have been de-
nied or restricted;
(5) re-establishes any program or project
previously deferred through reprogramming;
(6) augments any existing program,
project, or responsibility center through a
reprogramming of funds in excess of
$3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
(7) increases by 20 percent or more per-
sonnel assigned to a specific program,
project or responsibility center,
unless prior approval is received from the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate.
(b) The District of Columbia government is
authorized to approve and execute re-
programming and transfer requests of local
funds under this title through November 7,
2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H331
January 9, 2019
SEC. 804. None of the Federal funds pro-
vided in this Act may be used by the District
of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses,
or other costs associated with the offices of
United States Senator or United States Rep-
resentative under section 4(d) of the District
of Columbia Statehood Constitutional Con-
vention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. Law 3–171;
D.C. Official Code, sec. 1–123).
SEC. 805. Except as otherwise provided in
this section, none of the funds made avail-
able by this Act or by any other Act may be
used to provide any officer or employee of
the District of Columbia with an official ve-
hicle unless the officer or employee uses the
vehicle only in the performance of the offi-
cer’s or employee’s official duties. For pur-
poses of this section, the term ‘‘official du-
ties’’ does not include travel between the of-
ficer’s or employee’s residence and work-
place, except in the case of—
(1) an officer or employee of the Metropoli-
tan Police Department who resides in the
District of Columbia or is otherwise des-
ignated by the Chief of the Department;
(2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an
officer or employee of the District of Colum-
bia Fire and Emergency Medical Services
Department who resides in the District of
Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
(3) at the discretion of the Director of the
Department of Corrections, an officer or em-
ployee of the District of Columbia Depart-
ment of Corrections who resides in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and is on call 24 hours a
day;
(4) at the discretion of the Chief Medical
Examiner, an officer or employee of the Of-
fice of the Chief Medical Examiner who re-
sides in the District of Columbia and is on
call 24 hours a day;
(5) at the discretion of the Director of the
Homeland Security and Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, an officer or employee of the
Homeland Security and Emergency Manage-
ment Agency who resides in the District of
Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day;
(6) the Mayor of the District of Columbia;
and
(7) the Chairman of the Council of the Dis-
trict of Columbia.
SEC. 806. (a) None of the Federal funds con-
tained in this Act may be used by the Dis-
trict of Columbia Attorney General or any
other officer or entity of the District govern-
ment to provide assistance for any petition
drive or civil action which seeks to require
Congress to provide for voting representa-
tion in Congress for the District of Colum-
bia.
(b) Nothing in this section bars the Dis-
trict of Columbia Attorney General from re-
viewing or commenting on briefs in private
lawsuits, or from consulting with officials of
the District government regarding such law-
suits.
SEC. 807. None of the Federal funds con-
tained in this Act may be used to distribute
any needle or syringe for the purpose of pre-
venting the spread of blood borne pathogens
in any location that has been determined by
the local public health or local law enforce-
ment authorities to be inappropriate for
such distribution.
SEC. 808. Nothing in this Act may be con-
strued to prevent the Council or Mayor of
the District of Columbia from addressing the
issue of the provision of contraceptive cov-
erage by health insurance plans, but it is the
intent of Congress that any legislation en-
acted on such issue should include a ‘‘con-
science clause’’ which provides exceptions
for religious beliefs and moral convictions.
SEC. 809. (a) None of the Federal funds con-
tained in this Act may be used to enact or
carry out any law, rule, or regulation to le-
galize or otherwise reduce penalties associ-
ated with the possession, use, or distribution
of any schedule I substance under the Con-
trolled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.)
or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative.
(b) No funds available for obligation or ex-
penditure by the District of Columbia gov-
ernment under any authority may be used to
enact any law, rule, or regulation to legalize
or otherwise reduce penalties associated
with the possession, use, or distribution of
any schedule I substance under the Con-
trolled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.)
or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative for
recreational purposes.
SEC. 810. No funds available for obligation
or expenditure by the District of Columbia
government under any authority shall be ex-
pended for any abortion except where the life
of the mother would be endangered if the
fetus were carried to term or where the preg-
nancy is the result of an act of rape or in-
cest.
SEC. 811. (a) No later than 30 calendar days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Chief Financial Officer for the District of
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the
Council of the District of Columbia, a re-
vised appropriated funds operating budget in
the format of the budget that the District of
Columbia government submitted pursuant to
section 442 of the District of Columbia Home
Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1–204.42),
for all agencies of the District of Columbia
government for fiscal year 2019 that is in the
total amount of the approved appropriation
and that realigns all budgeted data for per-
sonal services and other-than-personal serv-
ices, respectively, with anticipated actual
expenditures.
(b) This section shall apply only to an
agency for which the Chief Financial Officer
for the District of Columbia certifies that a
reallocation is required to address unantici-
pated changes in program requirements.
SEC. 812. No later than 30 calendar days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Chief Financial Officer for the District of
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress, the Mayor, and the
Council for the District of Columbia, a re-
vised appropriated funds operating budget
for the District of Columbia Public Schools
that aligns schools budgets to actual enroll-
ment. The revised appropriated funds budget
shall be in the format of the budget that the
District of Columbia government submitted
pursuant to section 442 of the District of Co-
lumbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code,
sec. 1–204.42).
SEC. 813. (a) Amounts appropriated in this
Act as operating funds may be transferred to
the District of Columbia’s enterprise and
capital funds and such amounts, once trans-
ferred, shall retain appropriation authority
consistent with the provisions of this Act.
(b) The District of Columbia government is
authorized to reprogram or transfer for oper-
ating expenses any local funds transferred or
reprogrammed in this or the four prior fiscal
years from operating funds to capital funds,
and such amounts, once transferred or repro-
grammed, shall retain appropriation author-
ity consistent with the provisions of this
Act.
(c) The District of Columbia government
may not transfer or reprogram for operating
expenses any funds derived from bonds,
notes, or other obligations issued for capital
projects.
SEC. 814. None of the Federal funds appro-
priated in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year,
nor may any be transferred to other appro-
priations, unless expressly so provided here-
in.
SEC. 815. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law or under this Act, not to ex-
ceed 50 percent of unobligated balances re-
maining available at the end of fiscal year
2019 from appropriations of Federal funds
made available for salaries and expenses for
fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall remain
available through September 30, 2020, for
each such account for the purposes author-
ized: Provided, That a request shall be sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate for approval prior to the expenditure of
such funds: Provided further, That these re-
quests shall be made in compliance with re-
programming guidelines outlined in section
803 of this Act.
SEC. 816. (a)(1) During fiscal year 2020, dur-
ing a period in which neither a District of
Columbia continuing resolution or a regular
District of Columbia appropriation bill is in
effect, local funds are appropriated in the
amount provided for any project or activity
for which local funds are provided in the Act
referred to in paragraph (2) (subject to any
modifications enacted by the District of Co-
lumbia as of the beginning of the period dur-
ing which this subsection is in effect) at the
rate set forth by such Act.
(2) The Act referred to in this paragraph is
the Act of the Council of the District of Co-
lumbia pursuant to which a proposed budget
is approved for fiscal year 2020 which (subject
to the requirements of the District of Colum-
bia Home Rule Act) will constitute the local
portion of the annual budget for the District
of Columbia government for fiscal year 2020
for purposes of section 446 of the District of
Columbia Home Rule Act (sec. 1–204.46, D.C.
Official Code).
(b) Appropriations made by subsection (a)
shall cease to be available—
(1) during any period in which a District of
Columbia continuing resolution for fiscal
year 2020 is in effect; or
(2) upon the enactment into law of the reg-
ular District of Columbia appropriation bill
for fiscal year 2020.
(c) An appropriation made by subsection
(a) is provided under the authority and con-
ditions as provided under this Act and shall
be available to the extent and in the manner
that would be provided by this Act.
(d) An appropriation made by subsection
(a) shall cover all obligations or expendi-
tures incurred for such project or activity
during the portion of fiscal year 2020 for
which this section applies to such project or
activity.
(e) This section shall not apply to a project
or activity during any period of fiscal year
2020 if any other provision of law (other than
an authorization of appropriations)—
(1) makes an appropriation, makes funds
available, or grants authority for such
project or activity to continue for such pe-
riod; or
(2) specifically provides that no appropria-
tion shall be made, no funds shall be made
available, or no authority shall be granted
for such project or activity to continue for
such period.
(f) Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to affect obligations of the govern-
ment of the District of Columbia mandated
by other law.
SEC. 817. Except as expressly provided oth-
erwise, any reference to ‘‘this Act’’ con-
tained in this title or in title IV shall be
treated as referring only to the provisions of
this title or of title IV.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Financial
Services and General Government Appropria-
tions Act, 2019’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill
shall be debatable for 1 hour, equally
divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations or their re-
spective designees.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:31 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.012 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H332 January 9, 2019
The gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
QUIGLEY) and the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. GRAVES) each will control
30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the measure under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Now that Democrats have taken the
majority in the House, we have shown
our intention to govern responsibly
and have already illustrated real lead-
ership at every turn, a welcome change
after fighting through 2 years of chaos
and obstruction, which culminated in a
reckless shutdown.
At the end of the day, the President’s
beloved border wall is the issue solely
responsible for this irresponsible shut-
down, and it is an absolute disgrace
and a disservice to all Americans to
allow this broken campaign promise to
hold all other key funding bills hos-
tage.
From delays in the processing of Fed-
eral loan assistance applications for
small businesses and the uncertainty
created for taxpayers during tax sea-
son, to regulatory agencies like the
FTC not being able to pursue the vast
majority of consumer protection inves-
tigations, I have seen firsthand how
this shutdown is impacting the com-
munities around the country, as the
chairman-designate of the Financial
Services Subcommittee on Appropria-
tions.
Due to the shutdown at the SEC,
companies have been announcing
delays, and investors are concerned
that IPOs for companies such as Uber
will miss a key first quarter deadline.
We can put a stop to this chaos that
is rattling our communities and our
economy. This bill before us today is
fiscally responsible and makes hard
choices among competing priorities. It
provides a total of $23.688 billion in dis-
cretionary resources, an increase of
$265 million over the fiscal year 2018
level.
The bill rejects the President’s pro-
posed elimination of the Community
Development Financial Institutions
Fund and cuts to the Small Business
Administration, which provides nec-
essary resources to spur economic
growth, particularly in underserved
communities.
The bill provides a pay increase for
civilian Federal employees in 2019,
while putting a stop to the excessive
raises to the Vice President and other
high-ranking administration officials.
In addition, the bill includes backpay
for Federal employees furloughed dur-
ing this shutdown.
One key feature of this bill is the
total lack of controversial policy rid-
ers. This is a clean appropriations
measure squarely under the jurisdic-
tion of this committee.
Again, most importantly, this bill
will reopen the Department of the
Treasury, which includes the IRS as
well as the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Small Business Adminis-
tration, and multiple other agencies
that have a direct impact on the lives
and livelihoods of American families,
businesses, and communities.
By passing this bill, we will be able
to get more than 130,000 workers back
to work and receiving a paycheck. It is
long past time that we reopen govern-
ment, and this bill does exactly that
for a number of critical agencies that
Americans rely on every day.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
I rise in opposition to this bill today
because this is just another one of the
Democrat Party’s political stunts.
The 116th Congress continues now
under this cloud of a partial govern-
ment shutdown, and it is for one reason
and one reason only, and that is that
the Democrats continue to put their
political agenda ahead of the security
of our country.
So here we find ourselves, the very
first act of the new majority is to bring
a Senate bill forward without any hear-
ings, without any debate, and certainly
without any amendments.
As you know, Mr. Speaker, Demo-
crats that bring the bills to the floor
this week are really bypassing the en-
tire process, bypassing every Member’s
responsibility here in Congress, and
that is to put their mark on each and
every bill.
It also may be to distract from some
of the President’s ideas as well. In fact,
the President’s funding request is com-
pletely normal, and it is necessary. It
is not extreme. It is not divisive. It is
not political in any way whatsoever.
What is extreme, what is divisive,
what is political, and what is unneces-
sary is the Democrats’ refusal to actu-
ally negotiate with the President, their
refusal to hear the facts and under-
stand the facts as presented by the ex-
perts.
They are more committed to satis-
fying their political base than securing
the border and opening the govern-
ment, which we could do very quickly
if they just chose to meet with the
President and negotiate on good terms
and in good faith.
If that is not bad enough, there are
serious problems with this bill. The un-
derlying measure itself is certainly not
perfect. After all, it is a Senate bill,
might I remind you, Mr. Speaker. It is
identical to the bill that they passed
last year, and it does not include any
of the House priorities.
Democrats are not allowing any
amendments here today, so there is no
way even to improve this bill, to per-
fect this bill, and we know we are the
body of perfecting the Senate’s legisla-
tion.
Our constituents have elected us
each here to represent them in Con-
gress, Republicans and Democrats
alike, not to abdicate our responsibil-
ities and simply accept something from
the Senate.
In fact, today is beginning a process
that I see as very dangerous and, in
fact, is just asking this body, under
this new majority, to have every Mem-
ber of the House of Representatives
vote on nearly $300-plus billion of
spending without one committee hear-
ing, without one bit of debate, without
one amendment, and without any bit of
perfection, and, yet, stand before our
constituents and say we have given
this full and thorough thought.
Now, there are many House priorities
that both Democrats and Republicans
support that would certainly improve
this legislation. For example, the bill
that we passed out of the House last
year had many great bipartisan ele-
ments to it. We passed it back in July,
and it contained nearly $276 million for
the Calexico, California, land port of
entry, fully funding what was nec-
essary there at that land port of entry.
Yet, the Senate bill is $100 million
short.
Additionally, the bill that passed the
House last year included 20 pieces of
legislation that were bipartisan finan-
cial reforms that were approved by this
Chamber during the last Congress with
a vote of 270 votes or more.
Mr. Speaker, you don’t find that very
often and you certainly haven’t over
the last couple of years, yet it was in-
cluded in what we passed last year.
Might I add, it is completely omitted
by the Senate.
So Democrats and Republicans, in-
cluding Chairwoman WATERS herself,
sponsored many of these provisions—I
know she is here with us today, and I
hope she speaks to the fact of their ab-
sence in this bill today—that were
building upon the JOBS Act from 2012.
These provisions facilitated capital
formation, enhanced our capital mar-
kets, and provided targeted relief to
various institutions. More impor-
tantly, Mr. Speaker, it provided con-
sumer protection, which I think and I
would hope is a bipartisan quest for us.
The Senate bill also shorts the Small
Business Administration’s Entrepre-
neurial Development programs, some-
thing that has been bipartisan in this
House. They short it by more than $10
million compared to what we passed
last year. It shorts the SBA’s Women’s
Business Centers by $1 million and
their veterans outreach by $400,000.
Mr. Speaker, those are things we in-
cluded last year that the Senate has
found are not a priority. The question
I would have before this House today
is: Do we no longer hold those as prior-
ities?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.045 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H333
January 9, 2019
If we pass what is proposed today, we
are, in fact, saying it is no longer a pri-
ority that we focus on veterans’ or on
women’s businesses.
If that is not bad enough, the Senate
bill is more than $31 million short on
SBA’s disaster loans program. Many
areas of this country, including my
State, including many of the States
represented in this room as we speak,
are still reeling from last year’s disas-
ters. So do Democrats really want to
cut this lifeline short?
Mr. Speaker, I would hope not.
By abandoning the bipartisan House
bill, Democrats are underfunding pro-
grams for women, veterans, and dis-
aster victims.
Additionally, this Senate bill con-
tains nothing—and I say, Mr. Speaker,
nothing—for community development
financial institutions to assist those
with disabilities.
Are we standing here today, Mr.
Speaker, and saying that those with
disabilities are no longer a priority of
this House? A ‘‘yes’’ vote today would
confirm that.
Mr. Speaker, that is why I am cer-
tainly not supporting this bill.
But I know that I have worked with
my friend, Mr. QUIGLEY, who is now the
chairperson, and we are going to have a
great working relationship. But this
Senate bill is deficient of even his pri-
orities.
I know it is very difficult for him
today to introduce a bill that he didn’t
craft, that he didn’t originate other
than by name only. I know it is prob-
ably even more difficult that he is in-
troducing a bill that was originally in-
troduced by Republicans in the Senate.
It doesn’t include even his priorities
that I worked on long and hard with
him, including the Elections Assist-
ance Commission, which was a strong
priority of his. They cut it by more
than $1 million over what we had in-
cluded last year.
The Consumer Protection Safety
Commission is also $1 million below
what our House bill was, and it does
not fund the grants for pool safety,
which I think we all know is a long-
time House priority for many Members
of this body.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, the National
Defense Authorization Act created an
entirely new structure for the Treasury
Department’s Committee on Foreign
Investment in the United States. They
need another $6 million, just $6 million
to meet the requirements of this new
authorization, which will help protect
all of our Nation’s interests.
I guess I should say it one more time.
The Senate has let us down, and they
don’t even include that in this bill as
well.
So I lay a lot of blame on the Senate
bill itself and the components of the
Senate bill, but that shouldn’t take
away from the fact that it is being in-
troduced in this House today by the
new majority.
Mr. Speaker, I heard the presen-
tations that were given on opening day
last week as we were all sworn in, and
I was hopeful that there would be a
very open, deliberative debate process
that we would engage in, in this House.
I know there will be those that will
claim there is urgency and there is
haste, and we must move fast. But we
should never move fast and hastily and
disregard the constituencies that we
each represent or their voices, or put-
ting our fingerprints on legislation in
the name of efficiency or in the name
of where we are today and the political
differences.
We must embrace this political de-
bate. We must allow every Member’s
voice to be heard.
Mr. Speaker, I am going to urge my
friends on the other side of the aisle:
Let’s give this a chance. Let’s open up
this process. Let’s come to the table.
We can do this. In fact, Mr. QUIGLEY
and I have shown that that can be done
even as we worked through last year.
We can fund border security. We can
secure our Nation. We can reopen the
government. We can incorporate the
priorities of Republicans and Demo-
crats in the House today, because, after
all, we are closest to the people. Don’t
their voices deserve to be heard?
The American people are counting on
us, Mr. Speaker, so they have elected
us to do this. I hope we can do it. I rise
in opposition and will be opposing this
bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from New
York (Mrs. LOWEY), the distinguished,
newly minted, first-ever chairwoman of
the House Appropriations Committee.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I am de-
lighted to have the opportunity to
work with what we call our cardinal,
the chair of this distinguished Sub-
committee of Appropriations, and I
thank him for yielding me some time.
Mr. Speaker, the Trump shutdown is
now in its 19th day. It is simply out-
rageous that more than 800,000 Federal
employees are going without pay and
that the American people are being de-
nied vital services, all because of Presi-
dent Trump’s demands for a wasteful
border wall.
House Democrats want to open the
government, but the President and the
Senate Republicans continue to ob-
struct and delay instead of working
with us to get the people’s business
done.
b 1430
The solution to this crisis is simple:
Pass the bills where we can agree, and
extend funding for Homeland Security
for a month, 30 days, to allow time for
negotiation on border security and im-
migration policy.
I hope that my colleagues across the
Capitol come to their senses and stop
this ridiculous, dangerous Trump shut-
down. Unless Congress acts, the Amer-
ican people will continue to experience
serious impacts from the shutdown.
Taxpayers rely on the IRS to assist
them in making big choices for their fi-
nancial planning. That advice helps
families make important decisions,
like whether to put money into their
savings or buy that new appliance to
replace a broken one. With taxpayer
assistance, phone lines, and centers
closed for business, our constituents
don’t have anyone they can turn to.
Outside of the IRS, small businesses,
which make up the backbone of our
economy, also take a hit. With no ac-
cess to Small Business Administration
loans during the shutdown, those busi-
nesses will remain unable to make cap-
ital improvements, and entrepreneurs
can’t even attend workshops with the
SBA to seek advice.
We can reopen both the IRS and the
SBA today, along with other vital
agencies like the FCC, the SEC, and
the Federal judiciary. Democrats are
again ready to act. I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield as much time as she may
consume to the gentlewoman from the
State of Texas (Ms. GRANGER), the
ranking member of the Appropriations
Committee, my good friend and won-
derful Representative.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in opposition to H.R. 264.
Unfortunately, as with all the appro-
priations bills we consider this week,
moving this bill across the House floor
will not resolve the partial government
shutdown.
It is a job and responsibility of Con-
gress to appropriate funds. We must
come together, both Republicans and
Democrats, in the House and the Sen-
ate, to put together a legislation solu-
tion that will reopen the government
and fund border security, one that rep-
resents the will of both Chambers and
the American people.
By considering only the Senate-
passed versions of these appropriations
bills, we are ignoring the will of this
Chamber by eliminating House Mem-
bers’ involvement in the appropriations
process.
The bill before us today funds Senate
priorities at the expense of House pri-
orities. In particular, the Financial
Services and General Government bill
falls short in several areas: con-
structing border points of entry, assist-
ing taxpayers and U.S. businesses, and
following through on commonsense bi-
partisan financial reforms.
I want to thank my colleague from
Georgia (Mr. GRAVES) for his efforts
today and over the last several months
to ensure that the House’s voice is
heard in this debate.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. BISHOP), the chairman-des-
ignate of the Appropriations Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and
Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies Subcommittee.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
I rise in strong support of the fiscal
year 2019 Financial Services and Gen-
eral Government appropriations bill as
an effective vehicle for reopening the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.046 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H334 January 9, 2019
Federal Government agencies that are
funded by this bill as expeditiously as
possible.
The legislation before the House
today is vitally important to ensuring
the Federal Government and the U.S.
economy can work for the American
people. It safeguards our financial sys-
tem, ensures a fair playing field for
taxpayers, supports new businesses,
cultivates the vibrancy and effective-
ness of our telecommunications sys-
tem, safeguards our workers, provides
for the safety of our products, and pro-
tects the integrity of our elections.
Among the agencies funded under the
bill are the Consumer Product Safety
Commission, the Federal Communica-
tions Commission, the Federal Trade
Commission, the Federal Election
Commission, the Securities and Ex-
change Commission, the Internal Rev-
enue Service, and the Small Business
Administration.
With this current, unnecessary, mis-
guided government shutdown, the
agencies responsible for these objec-
tives are not able to fulfill their mis-
sion for the American people.
Hundreds of thousands of Federal
workers are being furloughed without
pay; consumer help lines are going un-
answered due to a lack of staff; en-
forcement activities are being sus-
pended; and loans from the Small Busi-
ness Administration are not being
processed. In addition, with the closure
of the Federal Election Commission,
reports of political malfeasance are not
being investigated.
And of great significance, without
this funding, millions of Americans
will not be able to have their tax re-
turns processed so that they can re-
ceive the refunds on which they rely to
make purchases and pay bills and
school tuition. These refunds, when
spent by taxpayers, contribute im-
mensely to the national economy, cre-
ating and maintaining countless jobs.
As a member of the House Appropria-
tions Financial Services and General
Government Subcommittee, I urge my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
support this legislation, which passed
the Senate last month on a bipartisan
vote of 92–6.
Let’s reopen these agencies and put
the government back to work for the
people, for the American people.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, let me just point out really quickly
that I hear the argument on the other
side that passage of this bill will re-
open the government right now, today,
and get it all working again. Let me re-
mind everyone, that will not happen.
This is not the bill that fully funds
what is outstanding at this point. This
is one little component.
But I love the passion of my friend
from Georgia. He and I worked well to-
gether on the committee, and he has
taught me much. One thing he taught
me was to fight for what is important,
fight for those priorities that are im-
portant, and one of his number one pri-
orities is omitted in this very bill that
he is advocating for passage of.
Fight for your priorities, House
Members. Republicans and Democrats
alike, fight for what you believe in and
don’t let go, because the Senate passed
something and it is easier.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MCHENRY), the ranking member of the
Financial Services Committee, a great
champion for free markets and cap-
italism, and my good friend.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, this bill
is plain and simple. It is a political
stunt. And this is a sad offering 1 week
into a new majority.
These bills are dead on arrival, as the
ranking member, my friend TOM
GRAVES, said, when they arrive in the
Senate. The Senate majority leader has
already said this. It is dead on arrival.
Nor will it be signed into law by the
President, who has already said he
would veto it.
Furthermore, these bills have been
stripped of House priorities that were
in this bill reported out of TOM
GRAVES’ subcommittee last Congress.
And they are not going to accomplish
our number one goal, which is reopen-
ing the government and addressing the
critical border security needs of our
country.
House Republicans did our job last
year by sending this and several other
appropriations bills to the Senate that
would have been signed into law and
ultimately avoided a shutdown if our
friends across the aisle had chosen sub-
stance over politics.
But this a greater point. What we
should be focusing on, rather than this
shell bill that is a political stunt, is
what is not in this bill.
Now, there are a couple things that
we passed last Congress in a bipartisan
way that the incoming chair of the Fi-
nancial Services Committee and I, as
ranking member on the Financial
Services Committee, both voted for.
We had the JOBS Act 3.0, which
passed this House last Congress with
406 ‘‘yes’’ votes and 4 dissenting votes.
Why is that not included in this bill? It
should be included in this bill. It is a
high priority.
Why don’t we see more bills helping
those who are underbanked in this
country? Those who are living on the
margins? Those who are on the edge?
Why can’t we get them included? Why
can’t we have financial inclusion as a
part of this bill? It does not address
them, nor does it help people who live
in rural communities who don’t have a
single bank branch in their county.
So we have banking deserts in this
country that separate people from ac-
cess to basic financial services prod-
ucts. We need to fix that problem. The
bill here before us doesn’t address that
issue either. Why aren’t we doing more
to help small businesses find the cap-
ital that they need?
Businesses are starved for additional
risk capital so they can grow, create
jobs, help their community, raise
wages. But instead of talking about
ways we can help people, this bill does
none of that. It is a political stunt. We
should be focused on helping people and
helping those who are on the margins
through financial inclusion.
Let’s get back to the priorities that
the American people sent us here to
take care of. Let’s vote down this bill,
and let’s vote ‘‘yes’’ on something that
can clear the Senate and get to the
President’s desk and be signed into
law.
I look forward to working with my
colleagues across the aisle in a con-
structive way in the coming months to
do just that. But in the meantime, this
is just a second-week charade, not es-
sential to what we should be focused on
here in the House of Representatives.
We should be less focused on political
optics and more about the reality of
how we help everyday working Ameri-
cans.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the distinguished gentle-
woman from California (Ms. WATERS),
chairwoman of the Financial Services
Committee.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I look
forward to working with my colleagues
on the opposite side of the aisle, but
today I rise in support of H.R. 264, leg-
islation that would reopen the Federal
Government and put Wall Street’s cop
on the beat, the Securities and Ex-
change Commission, back to work.
This President has all but closed the
door of the SEC, furloughing 94 percent
of the agency and essentially providing
fraudsters and schemers with a free
pass to swindle investors and small
businesses. With such a skeleton crew
of less than 300 staff, the SEC cannot
possibly oversee the activities of over
26,000 registered entities, such as in-
vestment advisers, broker dealers, and
stock exchanges. Worse, the SEC is un-
able to hold bad actors accountable
through most enforcement actions,
preventing harmed investors from ob-
taining relief.
But the importance of the SEC goes
beyond ensuring the rule of law. Busi-
nesses that are looking to enter the
public stock markets may have to
delay their initial public offerings be-
cause the SEC cannot approve their
documents. Businesses seeking guid-
ance from the SEC are left in legal
limbo until the SEC can get back to
work.
The Trump shutdown is jeopardizing
the integrity of our financial markets
and the hard-earned savings of millions
of Americans. So let’s end this Trump
shutdown and open the government so
that the SEC and other agencies can
get back to work on behalf of the pub-
lic.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate some of the
comments that have been made about
the fact that we have been able to work
together, both sides of the aisle on the
Financial Services Committee, work-
ing on such things as the JOBS Act,
but we can’t do any of that. We cannot
move. We cannot get to work for the
American people because this Presi-
dent not only has shut down the gov-
ernment, but he took responsibility for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.048 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H335
January 9, 2019
it. He wanted everybody to know that
he did it—that he not only did it, but
he is going to continue to do it until he
can bend us to his will and give him $5
billion-plus to put up a wall of some
kind. We don’t even know what it is.
So I want to say to my friends on the
opposite side of the aisle and to Mr.
MCHENRY, yes, we are going to be able
to work together on a lot of good legis-
lation, but why don’t you join with us
and talk to the President and tell him
to open up government, that we cannot
continue to have the American people
suffer in the way that they are doing,
and our financial services agencies are
unable to do the job that the people
sent them here to do.
b 1445
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume to make a few points.
Mr. Speaker, this bill has already
been voted on. As I recall, last week,
the majority party put this on the
floor, passed it out of the House, and,
guess what, the government is not
open. This is not the solution. So I
don’t get why we are here today doing
this in such a closed, lockdown process.
What is a solution, potentially, could
be if the chairwoman’s bipartisan ef-
forts from last year were given the op-
portunity to be voted on today with a
simple amendment. So what we are
talking about, maybe, is that 15 or 20
more minutes of our precious time
today is too much to ask to perfect
Senate imperfections.
That is really what today’s debate
should be about. It is not about this
legislation. We have already voted on
it—we voted on it last week—and I
think the minority voted ‘‘no,’’ the
majority voted ‘‘yes,’’ and, guess what,
the government is still not open. Why?
There is only one reason and one rea-
son only: Democrats are unwilling to
negotiate with a President they just
don’t like.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. HILL).
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
want to again add my congratulations
to the incoming chairwoman of the
House Financial Services Committee. I
look forward to working with her and
our committee in the 116th Congress.
But like my friend from Georgia and
my friend from North Carolina, this
bill is not a constructive effort today,
Mr. Speaker. We voted on this bill last
week. The McConnell Senate is not
going to take it up. It is not going to
produce our government reopening. It
is not helping the government get re-
opened to put people back to work
doing the people’s work.
So this is really a waste of our time
to be on the floor today. We should be
putting that emphasis on a bipartisan
effort to get Democratic leadership in
the House and Senate working with the
President on a solution to a com-
prehensive border security plan and re-
open this government.
I want to also thank my friend for
letting me talk about the insufficiency
of the Senate bill, as it does not con-
tain our bipartisan provisions, 20 provi-
sions this House approved, that we
worked on on a bipartisan basis, that
will improve access to capital across
this country for small businesses, for
our capital markets, and will lower the
cost and make more transparent home
buying.
Two things in particular I worked on
with my friend, BILL FOSTER, from Illi-
nois. The Volcker Rule Regulatory
Harmonization Act, which we passed in
this House, was not included in the
Senate provision; and a provision to
make insurance disclosures more
transparent and more accurate for con-
sumers for home mortgages, which was
also passed, strongly bipartisan, by our
committee and by this House was origi-
nally in our proposal, and it is not in
the Senate bill, Mr. Speaker.
Therefore, let’s say to the American
people, the bill we have on the floor
today is not going to result in the gov-
ernment reopening; it is not going to
be voted on in the Senate; it is not
going to be approved by President
Trump; and it is deficient. It does not
include the bipartisan priorities in fi-
nancial services ably included in the
House version by Mr. GRAVES.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. GRAVES for
his leadership.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from New
York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ), the chairwoman
of the Small Business Committee.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chairman of the sub-
committee for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, we are now 18 days into
the Trump shutdown, and America’s
small businesses are feeling the strain.
Each day that this political stunt con-
tinues, entrepreneurs lose out on near-
ly $90 million in affordable capital
through the Small Business Adminis-
tration’s 7(a) lending program alone.
That is 192 small firms per day going
without the resources they need to
grow and create new jobs.
As chairwoman of the Small Business
Committee, I am deeply concerned that
President Trump is holding America’s
small business sector hostage as he de-
mands funding for a cruel and ineffec-
tive border wall. Contrary to the Presi-
dent’s remarks, this shutdown isn’t
just hurting workers who collect a pay-
check in blue States; its impacts are
being felt on Main Street across this
country.
For 3 weeks now, the SBA—the only
Federal agency dedicated to our Na-
tion’s entrepreneurs—has ceased its
core operations. Make no mistake
about it: This puts hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars out of reach for mil-
lions of small businesses who seek to
utilize these services. For small firms
operating in the Federal marketplace,
the shutdown could cause them to sac-
rifice nearly 7,000 contracts worth over
$300 million each day.
Unfortunately, the consequences
don’t end there. For countless small
businesses—from those surrounding
our national parks to small grocers
who accept SNAP—a lack of customers
is leading to lost revenues, and the
bills are adding up.
Let us also not forget what happened
to our economy after Republicans shut
down the government in 2013: small
business hiring and consumer con-
fidence fell; the IRS was unable to pro-
vide taxpayer assistance; and our econ-
omy lost billions because of disrupted
government spending.
But what this shutdown really comes
down to is a President who, time and
again, has sought to divide us by label-
ing immigrants as the enemy. I am
here to tell you that welcoming immi-
grants is not just a founding principle
of this Nation, it is good economic pol-
icy.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
an additional 10 seconds to the gentle-
woman from New York.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Immigrants are
among America’s most successful en-
trepreneurs, starting about a quarter
of all new businesses. And Dreamers,
whose future our President continues
to jeopardize, start businesses at rates
higher than the overall public. Instead
of talking about building walls, let’s
put America’s entrepreneurial sector
back to work.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, largely, in this debate,
you are hearing two different elements.
You are hearing a little bit of a policy
argument on the Democratic side, the
other side of the aisle, and from our
side you are hearing a process argu-
ment. I think this is really important.
We, in essence, are in the third day of
the 116th Congress and shutting the
process down, 435 Members’ voices
being silenced. Extrapolate that across
800,000 constituents we each represent.
Those are the voices that are being si-
lenced here today in the name of expe-
diency, in the name of political stunts,
in the name of finger-pointing, but
without really any resolve or desire to
bring a fruitful, positive conclusion to
what is a very difficult and painful
time that we are in right now. I agree
with that.
I think about over the holidays, and
it is interesting how the other side is
pointing fingers at the President here
and there, but the President was here.
He was in Washington, D.C. He was
waiting for the other side to come and
have a discussion and talk about these
tough issues together, to work through
them. Where were they? If I recall,
maybe the incoming Speaker-elect
might have been in Hawaii. Other
Members were on vacations with their
families.
While families of these agencies were
struggling and wondering about their
next day, their Christmas, and their
next paycheck, the leadership of the
Democratic Party was on vacation
while the President was here saying: I
am here. The door is open. Let’s talk.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.049 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H336 January 9, 2019
I think he still extends that invita-
tion, and I hope they take us up on
that.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. CRIST), my distinguished col-
league.
Mr. CRIST. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
chairman for yielding me time.
Mr. Speaker, for 19 days, critical fi-
nancial agencies which serve the peo-
ple have been closed. Taxpayer assist-
ance has stopped; the people’s refunds
are at risk of serious delay; small busi-
ness support is suspended; and con-
sumer protection work has been halted.
People are hurting. It is a self-inflicted
wound.
But today, we have the opportunity
to reopen these critical agencies for
the people. The solution is simple: vote
‘‘yes’’ on this legislation; put people
above politics; and reopen our govern-
ment today.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I continue to reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. Garcia), my distinguished col-
league, and the cradle of leadership on
the Cook County board.
Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
I thank Mr. QUIGLEY for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, the Trump shutdown is
harmful and irresponsible.
On the first day of this new Congress,
House Democrats sent legislation to
open up the government. I supported it,
and I will continue to support this leg-
islation to open up parts of the govern-
ment immediately.
Each day the Republican shutdown
continues, hardworking Americans and
families suffer. Right now, the IRS is
operating with only 12 percent of its
workforce, threatening the agency’s
ability to process and disburse tax re-
funds in a timely manner.
That is why today I am sending a let-
ter to President Trump with the sup-
port of my colleague, Representative
LLOYD DOGGETT of Texas, and over 50
Members of Congress, urging him to
end the shutdown and warning him of
the effects that that shutdown is hav-
ing on families.
Just yesterday, The Washington Post
noted that students reliant on Federal
financial aid for college are facing
trouble providing the Department of
Education verification of their income
because of furloughs at the IRS. I rep-
resent many immigrant and working-
class families who rely on their annual
tax refund to feed their families, pay
for their children’s education, and buy
their gas to get to work.
Mr. Speaker, families are suffering,
and I urge my colleagues to support
this legislation and reopen the govern-
ment.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, if you think about the
overarching discussion and issue and
where the division is, it is really about
the fundamental question of border se-
curity.
Some don’t like the term, ‘‘the wall.’’
I would hope, maybe, that we are all
for securing our country. Maybe it is
just terminology that separates us of-
tentimes, but through this time of
thinking about the words we are choos-
ing, lives are being altered; they are
being impacted.
Individuals are losing their lives be-
cause of illegal activity that occurs
through our porous border, and it is
just, in many cases, because of insuffi-
cient funds while we have this debate
about words and terminology: What is
a fence? or a wall? or a barrier? or
technology? It doesn’t really matter
what terms we use when lives are being
altered daily while we squabble, just
squabble, over a few terms.
It is amazing how the other side says
that they can’t support this, they just
can’t support funding for the wall.
What they are saying, really, is that
they can’t support this President be-
cause they don’t like him.
But, in fact, on two different occa-
sions, within the last 18 or 19 months,
the new majority party did vote for
wall funding. They voted for border se-
curity. It was $1.6 billion on two sepa-
rate occasions. Both times have been
signed into law by this same President.
I wonder: Why is it too much to ask
to just put in a different number, a lit-
tle bit more? Is our country not worth
just a little bit more? Is a life not
worth just a little bit more when na-
tional experts say it is necessary? Or
are political differences going to stand
in the way of that?
I hope today we can break through
that.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. NEAL), the distinguished
chairman of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee.
b 1500
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr.
QUIGLEY for yielding me the time.
Mr. Speaker, I stand in support of
H.R. 264. This bill appropriates des-
perately needed funds for the Treasury
Department and the Internal Revenue
Service.
As the shutdown persists, the finan-
cial and emotional drain on employees
and taxpayers continues. There are
tens of thousands of furloughed Treas-
ury employees who want to work and
proudly would do so, but they cannot.
They also cannot pay bills, cannot af-
ford medical care, and, like us, cannot
understand any of this. Every day that
passes and every minute the shutdown
continues it is too long and too costly.
Reopen the government and begin to
negotiate.
I spoke to the Treasury Secretary
yesterday, along with the IRS Commis-
sioner as well, regarding the impact of
the partial shutdown on the IRS and
the tax-filing season. I was informed
that the IRS will release its contin-
gency plan for the tax-filing season in
the next few hours, or, certainly, with-
in the next day and issuing refunds in
coming days, apparently, an effort will
be made to reach that goal, but it will
also require a significant number of
IRS employees to return to work with-
out pay.
These developments are no substitute
for fully funding the government and
reopening the agency. Reminder: The
average refund is just under $3,000.
That helps out a lot of middle-class in-
dividuals who will use it to pay down
Christmas debt, perhaps. They depend
upon that as part of regular cash flow.
Mr. Speaker, we do not know the full
damage and cost of the shutdown, but
we knew going into it that somebody
was going to get hurt. So we should end
it today before any more damage is
done.
If a taxpayer calls the IRS right now
for assistance, they will hear the fol-
lowing: ‘‘Live telephone assistance is
not available at this time. Normal op-
erations will resume as soon as pos-
sible.’’ But they are expected to go into
work as well to help process those tax
forms.
The time is now to reopen the gov-
ernment, and as I noted, negotiate.
The time has come for our colleagues
on both sides to stand up and vote
‘‘yes’’ and fully reopen these agencies.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I am glad we are reaching a conclu-
sion on this, because we just went
through this last week, might I remind
you. Same stuff, same legislation,
voted on, passed out of the House and
guess what? The government is still
not open and operating. So are we real-
ly trying to get to a workable solution
here by the new majority or just drive
another wedge in our country?
This passage today, if it were to
occur, will not change anything. It will
only drive us a little further apart and
will not reopen the government. Let’s
not kid anyone. Let’s make sure those
sound bites don’t get out there and
that the headlines aren’t that, because
that is truly not what is going to hap-
pen at all.
What is happening today is an exam-
ple of abdicating our responsibilities as
duly elected Members of the House of
Representatives in the name of expedi-
ency and political tactics. That is what
is happening here today. It is really
what that vote is today.
A ‘‘yes’’ vote is an affirmation that I
am for the expediency of doing away
with responsibilities because it is easy
and it is politically advantageous. A
‘‘no’’ vote is saying I am going to stand
up for the voices of this House. I am
going to stand up for the constitu-
encies that we represent. I am going to
stand up for the priorities of this House
and wait and fight for a better process.
This process is amazing. Actually, it
is reckless, to be honest with you, Mr.
Speaker. I mean, are we going to be a
bicameral system anymore? Is this an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.051 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H337
January 9, 2019
example of what we should see and is
this a forecast of the days ahead that
there will be no debate in a committee?
A bill is introduced—and you
watched the cartoons growing up and it
seemed like it was a simple process: a
person has a nice idea; they write it
down on a piece of paper and they turn
it in; and people look at it and perfect
it a little bit; and all of a sudden, you
build support for something across the
aisle and across the different coali-
tions; and then you get to share it and
advocate for it; and then it goes to the
other body.
Then they get a choice. Do they want
to make changes to it, and such, and
input it through a committee. That is
not how it is happening today. This is
the new majority, a very closed, very
dark process in which not even Demo-
crat Members—if I were one of the 60
new Members elected on the other side,
I would be throwing my hands up in the
air right now saying, wait a minute. I
did all that work for this, for you to
tell me what I must vote on? And I
have a binary choice, yes or no? That is
the only choice I get?
Mr. Speaker, I feel for the new in-
coming Members. This is not what it
was supposed to be like for them. I
don’t think it is what you recruited
them for, as well. It is a sacrifice, real-
ly. It is sacrificing all of our priorities
that we have as a House, all for a proc-
ess because there are folks who just
don’t like this President.
Mr. Speaker, I have been in that posi-
tion before too. In fact, I remember
Barack Obama when he was President.
I disagreed with him as a President. I
didn’t want him to fail though because
it meant our country was failing. I dis-
agreed with him on policy, and I would
share that, and advocate, but I would
try to influence as well.
I don’t see any ability here or ideas
of influencing outcomes, but I will
close with this, Mr. Speaker, because I
want to share with you some words
that have been heard around this town
and on the Hill in recent days and
months. These are quotes.
‘‘Members today seem to have a bet-
ter chance today of getting struck by
lightning than getting their amend-
ments made in order. They come here
with real ideas and germane amend-
ments, only to be told ‘no,’ again, and
again, and again.’’
Next quote: ‘‘We shouldn’t be stifling
debate.’’
Next quote: ‘‘I do think we will find
a lot of agreement on some pretty com-
monsense ideas, but we need a more ac-
commodating process, though. We need
to follow regular order and the House
needs to actually debate again.’’ That
was in September.
Also in September: ‘‘I feel like we are
living in an authoritarian regime,’’
heard on the Hill here.
‘‘It is like this majority is allergic to
an open process.’’
And then, lastly: ‘‘With each new
closed rule they bring to the floor,
shutting out amendments from both
Democrats and Republicans, the cyn-
ical hypocrisy grows louder and louder.
Instead of the people’s House, this has,
sadly, become only the people who
agree,’’ at that time, ‘‘with PAUL
RYAN’s House.’’
Might I share the author of these
quotes? It would be the chairman of
the Rules Committee today, Chairman
MCGOVERN. Those are his words, and he
is absolutely right, but he was fore-
casting today in this moment.
Mr. Speaker, this is a sad time in the
House of Representatives. Very sad. I
agree with Mr. MCGOVERN. He is abso-
lutely right, and it is at this moment
today in which it has been proven to be
true.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
It is interesting to hear a discourse
on functioning government as we look
back at 2018 when my colleagues across
the aisle operated under 103 closed
rules. Circumstances today are of an
exigent manner. The government is not
functioning. Lives are at risk. The
time for leadership, the time to not
stymie ideas, and the time for func-
tioning government is apparently gone.
So we must act and we must act quick-
ly.
If we are talking history, let’s go a
little further back. In the history of
the United States, when one party was
in control of the White House, the Sen-
ate, and the House of Representatives,
there has never been a shutdown until
this administration.
So today, when all of those opportu-
nities are passed, we now hear that it
is somehow a shame that government
isn’t allowed to function. The govern-
ment isn’t functioning. It has to be
open. Then we can begin operating
under open bills and in a manner in
which everyone would like to see on a
bipartisan basis.
But right now, there is real danger
out there for the American public. So
we are now into the 19th day under this
President’s shutdown, the second long-
est shutdown in the Nation’s history
and already the third one under this
administration.
Mr. Speaker, we are here to govern.
We are here not to play games. Let’s do
our job for the American people. Let’s
support this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, first, I
want to thank Chairman QUIGLEY for his lead-
ership in putting this bill together so that fed-
eral workers can get back to work.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the
FY 2019 Financial Services Appropriations
Bill, which provides more than $23 billion to
partially re-open the government.
This important bill would reopen the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS)—ensuring hardworking
families receive their tax returns on time. It
would also help to restart the taxpayer assist-
ance centers, which serve approximately 2.5
million citizens monthly.
This shutdown is affecting real lives, Mr.
Speaker. Real people.
According to the Washington Post, IRS fur-
loughed employee Krystle Kirkpatrick, said she
and her family of four can scrape along on her
partner’s machinist salary for a while, but
she’s already thinking about signing up to be
a plasma donor to earn extra cash. That’s only
an extra $200.
Let me reiterate. A federal employee is con-
sidering becoming a plasma donor—because
her paycheck, from her federal government
job, won’t be coming in the mail.
This is no way to run a country.
Mr. Speaker, the Trump shutdown is hurting
real families and it’s hurting our economy.
Let’s pass this bill. Let’s get the government
back open and get workers their paychecks.
I urge my colleagues to vote yes on the Fi-
nancial Services Bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 28, the
previous question is ordered on the bill.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I have a motion to recommit at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. I am op-
posed to it in its current form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Graves of Georgia moves to recommit
the bill H.R. 264 to the Committee on Appro-
priations with instructions to report the
same back to the House forthwith with the
following amendment:
Page 4, line 1, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(increased by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 71, line 4, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(decreased by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 74, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(decreased by $2,000,000)’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Georgia is recognized for 5 minutes in
support of his motion.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, this motion seeks to address one of
the many important shortfalls in the
Senate bill, and I know there are
many, and we can only address one or
two, or an exception here in this mo-
ment of a motion to recommit.
I wish the Rules Committee would
have allowed for—we have had this de-
bate already today—allowed for Mem-
bers of both parties to offer their ideas
to insert better concepts and to make
perfection out of something that is cer-
tainly not a perfect product coming
from the Senate.
I think the American people, through
their elected Representatives of this
body, deserve that opportunity as well
to amend and improve this legislation,
but the new Democratic majority has
certainly shut down this legislative
process.
I just read quotes from the current
chairman of the Rules Committee and
his disgust with that very same con-
cept or process from months ago, and,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.052 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H338 January 9, 2019
yet, it is being imposed upon us today.
This is our only opportunity to im-
prove the bill, and as meager as this
might be, this is important.
This motion is really simple. It just
adds $2 million to the Treasury Depart-
ment’s Office of Terrorism and Finan-
cial Intelligence, which would match
the House past levels that we passed
last year of $161 million.
This important office is fighting on
the front lines to enforce economic
sanctions against rogue nations like
Iran, North Korea, and Russia. Mr.
Speaker, you and I agree on how im-
portant that is, and they must have the
resources necessary.
The Countering America’s Adver-
saries Through Sanctions Act which
created this office, passed this House in
2017 by a vote of 419 yeses to just 3
noes. So it was very bipartisan. That is
about as good as it gets around here.
And it passed the Senate 98–2—another
great mark as well—and President
Trump signed it into law. It is an
amazing needle to thread all through
there that we had great bipartisan sup-
port here in the House, the Senate, and
the President signing this into law.
This is overwhelmingly bipartisan,
Mr. Speaker, and it brings the full
force of our Nation’s sanctions against
countries that seek to do us harm. This
is something we should support.
It is so important that OMB Director
Mick Mulvaney sent us a budget
amendment requesting more funds to
stand up this office. And that is not a
request we often get from Mr.
Mulvaney to increase spending any-
where. But, yet, he did that.
And you know the former Director
himself, as he served here, he doesn’t
like to spend a penny more than need-
ed, so this is certainly a very impor-
tant priority.
The Treasury has also made a strong
case that to comply with the Coun-
tering America’s Adversaries Through
Sanctions Act, the Department needs
these funds. So as we debate about the
importance of the moment and where
we are in time, I could see nothing
more important for us to focus on than
to put an additional $2 million into
this program and offset it, as has been
described in the amendment from the
GSA’s rental payments.
I hope every Member can support this
commonsense improvement. We are
just improving on the Senate bill. Mr.
Speaker, I ask for a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the
motion to recommit, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
opposition to the motion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Illinois is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, respon-
sibly funding the Federal Government
is one of the most important duties of
Congress. The previous majority failed
to do the most basic task of keeping
the lights on.
b 1515
On day 19 of the 116th Congress, we
Democrats are here to reopen Federal
agencies shuttered by the President’s
shutdown.
This legislation, which has already
garnered strong bipartisan support in
the Senate, will ensure that the Fed-
eral Government is open and working
for the American people.
Now, as to perfection, it is not per-
fect. I have not been here for a perfect
piece of legislation. What is critical to
take from that argument, though, is
the fact that any one of us can argue
that there isn’t some measure abso-
lutely critical to them and they are
not going to vote for it because of that.
Respectfully, someone has to be the
adult in the room and get things done.
Someone has to respect the process,
the importance of what the govern-
ment does, and the needs of the Amer-
ican people. You can’t kick the ball in
the forest preserve and go home. You
have to move forward.
This is the way to operate, the man-
ner in which the Senate has already
done, a manner in which we can accom-
plish and move forward together to try
to get this better, hopefully, next year.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. CONNOLLY).
Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my friend from Illinois.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to
the motion to recommit because I
think it is important we remember
President Trump has always wanted a
shutdown. He boasted a year and a half
ago that what the government needs is
a good government shutdown. There is
no such thing, as we now know.
On December 11—not ancient his-
tory—he sat in the Oval Office, getting
red in the face, shouting: ‘‘I will be the
one to shut it down.’’
He then followed through on that
promise by torpedoing a government
funding agreement that passed the
Senate with unanimous support.
Once again, Federal employees and
Federal contracts were being held hos-
tage by this President, all because of a
broken campaign promise. He said
Mexico was going to pay for his wall.
Now he needs a bailout from the Amer-
ican taxpayer. Fortunately, the new
Democratic majority in this House is
going to stand up to this President and
has offered a sensible plan to fund the
government.
The bill that passed in the Senate is
part of a four-bill package and, by a
vote of 92–6, provides a 1.9 percent
badly needed pay increase for all Fed-
eral employees and guarantees backpay
to the Federal employees furloughed
during this unnecessary Trump shut-
down.
I support the underlying bill because
we can and should end this Trump
shutdown now.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I simply
encourage my colleagues to vote ‘‘no,’’
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Mr. GRAVES of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
ADOPTING THE RULES OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts). Pursuant to
section 3 of House Resolution 5, pro-
ceedings will now resume on the reso-
lution (H. Res. 6) adopting the Rules of
the House of Representatives for the
One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, and
for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. When
proceedings were postponed on Friday,
January 4, 2019, the portion of the di-
vided question comprising title II had
been disposed of.
Pursuant to section 2 of House Reso-
lution 5, the portion of the divided
question comprising title III is now de-
batable for 1 hour.
The gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
SHALALA) and the gentleman from
Oklahoma (Mr. COLE) each will control
30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Florida.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to sup-
port the ability of the Speaker, on be-
half of the House of Representatives, to
intervene and defend the Affordable
Care Act in the case of Texas v. United
States.
This case is a backhanded way to do
what Republicans could not do legisla-
tively: repeal the ACA and take away
comprehensive health insurance from
millions of Americans.
Madam Speaker, I represent a dis-
trict that has the highest number of
people—more than 100,000—enrolled in
the ACA. Whether you get your health
insurance from your employer, from
Medicare, from Medicaid, or from the
marketplace, you have something to
lose if this disastrous court case is
upheld.
Not only will insurance companies
again be able to deny coverage to peo-
ple with preexisting conditions, young
people will no longer be able to stay on
their parents’ insurance until they are
26. Preventive services like flu shots
and annual checkups will not nec-
essarily be covered without cost.
Women may, once again, face buying
insurance that doesn’t cover maternity
care.
Our bipartisan efforts to phase out
the Medicare doughnut hole could
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.055 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H339
January 9, 2019
come to an end. Our seniors should not
have to choose between paying exorbi-
tant costs for prescription drugs and
buying food or paying rent.
An overwhelming majority of Ameri-
cans support all of these provisions.
Madam Speaker, with this rule, we
simply want to stand in court and de-
fend the valuable protections in the Af-
fordable Care Act that this case threat-
ens to take away.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I want to begin by
welcoming my good friend from Flor-
ida, first, to the Rules Committee, con-
gratulate her on her first rule on the
floor, and, finally, thank her quite sin-
cerely for the distinguished service she
rendered to our country when she was
a member of the Cabinet for former
President Clinton. It is wonderful to
have the gentlewoman in the people’s
House.
Madam Speaker, we are here again,
this time on the third and final title of
the rules package for the 116th Con-
gress. Title III authorizes the House to
intervene, otherwise appear, or take
any other steps in the case Texas v.
United States, the lawsuit currently
pending over the legality of the Afford-
able Care Act. In essence, if this passes,
the House will be giving Speaker
PELOSI the authority to intervene in
this lawsuit on behalf of the entire
House of Representatives.
I spoke briefly about this matter dur-
ing the debate of the overall rules
package last week, and I am sure my
opposition to title III comes as no sur-
prise to my friends on the other side of
the aisle. Today, we have several
speakers on our side from the Ways and
Means Committee and the Energy and
Commerce Committee, all of whom are
deeply familiar with these issues and
who will be able to tackle this in more
detail. But for now, I will make a few
key points.
First and foremost, it really isn’t a
surprise that the Democrats’ poorly
written healthcare law finds itself,
once again, in legal trouble. The law-
suit this time arises from Texas where
20 States have filed suits on the
grounds that, because there is no
longer a tax penalty in place for failing
to purchase health insurance under the
individual mandate, and because there
is no severability clause, the law itself
is unconstitutional.
Last month, a district court judge in
Texas agreed with the States and
struck down the Affordable Care Act.
That ruling has been stayed pending
appeal.
This really should not have come as
a surprise to the majority. At the time
the Affordable Care Act was passed,
many of us on the Republican side
raised similar concerns. The act, as
drafted, was too poorly written and too
precariously balanced to stand up
under its own weight.
The succeeding 9 years have caused
those predictions to come to pass. Pre-
miums have skyrocketed; insurers have
fled the market; and for many Ameri-
cans, the care they thought they were
accessing under the Affordable Care
Act has become anything but afford-
able.
Before Republicans acted last Con-
gress to repeal the tax penalty for the
individual mandate, literally millions
of taxpayers made the decision to pay
that penalty instead of buying health
insurance they could not afford.
No matter what the outcome of this
lawsuit will be, House Republicans
have over and over again expressed
their support for protections for those
with preexisting conditions. Should the
Texas decision be upheld, Republicans
stand ready to work with Democrats to
build an insurance system that pro-
tects people with preexisting condi-
tions, increases transparency and
choice, and lowers costs across the
country.
That is exactly what we tried to do
in the last Congress with the American
Health Care Act, which we in the
House proposed and passed as a solu-
tion to the broken law that is the Af-
fordable Care Act. While it fell short in
the Senate, its passage in the House
clearly shows Republicans were ready
to take steps to fix this broken system.
Rather than taking those steps
today, Democrats are asking us to
grant Speaker PELOSI a blank check to
intervene in this lawsuit. Rather than
allowing the States to continue to pur-
sue this litigation, as is their right
under the Constitution, Democrats
want this House to intervene. But the
majority has not said why intervention
is necessary and why the House of Rep-
resentatives must jump into this liti-
gation against some of the States.
Other States have already made the de-
cision to intervene in support of the
Affordable Care Act, rendering inter-
vention by this House unnecessary.
At best, this proposal is a political
exercise intended to allow the majority
to reiterate their position on the Af-
fordable Care Act. At worst, it is an at-
tempt to pressure the courts. Either
way, there is no real justification for
doing what the majority wishes to do
today.
Madam Speaker, the best way for the
majority to protect Americans and to
protect access to healthcare is to pass
a constitutionally sound law that is
well considered, well structured, and
that will result in lower premiums and
better access to health insurance. It is
not what they have proposed here,
which is a wasteful expenditure of tax-
payer dollars to defend the indefen-
sible.
Madam Speaker, I urge opposition to
the rule, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, let
me thank the gentleman from Okla-
homa for his kind words at the begin-
ning of his comments.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Massachusetts
(Mr. MCGOVERN), who is the distin-
guished chairman of the Committee on
Rules.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Florida
(Ms. Shalala) for yielding me the time.
It is an honor to serve with her on
the House Rules Committee. As the
longest serving HHS Secretary in U.S.
history, she spent much of her life
leading on the issue of healthcare.
Madam Speaker, the American peo-
ple have been living in fear for years,
worried that Washington Republicans
would make good on their promise to
repeal the Affordable Care Act and that
the President and his allies in Congress
would take away their ability to see a
doctor or afford care, including for pre-
existing conditions from asthma to do-
mestic abuse.
Who can blame them?
When the minority controlled this in-
stitution, they voted 69 times to under-
mine the Affordable Care Act. Sixty-
nine times they tried to take away
healthcare from more than 23 million
Americans. Thankfully, the Senate
thwarted these efforts, and Repub-
licans weren’t successful.
Now the Trump administration is
using the legal system to try to do
what the Republican Congress could
not: strike down the Affordable Care
Act. Its Justice Department has asked
in a legal filing for the courts to invali-
date this law and, in doing so, erase
protections for preexisting conditions.
Now, I have heard my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle try to pre-
tend that they are somehow champions
of this provision, despite working re-
lentlessly to abolish it and voting near-
ly 70 times to undermine the ACA.
Madam Speaker, who are they kid-
ding?
This Democratic majority doesn’t
deal in alternative facts. The American
people are smarter than that.
Thankfully, it is a new Congress, and
this majority isn’t trying to abolish
preexisting condition coverage. In-
stead, we are moving swiftly to protect
it on the opening days of this Congress.
b 1530
This measure will allow this House to
legally intervene to protect preexisting
condition coverage in the Affordable
Care Act. If you support coverage for
preexisting conditions, then you will
support this measure to try and protect
it. It is that simple.
Enough with the sound bites. It is
time to vote. I urge all my colleagues
to vote for this measure.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS), a
member of both the Rules Committee
and the Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee, who also happens to be perhaps
the foremost expert on the ACA in the
House of Representatives.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Let’s get one thing clear from the
start: the majority should not be act-
ing like they are doing something that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.057 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H340 January 9, 2019
hasn’t already been done. It is not
something new. Nothing we do on title
III of the rules package will change
what the House has already voted on
and how the court will receive it.
Title III of H. Res. 6 would authorize
the Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives to intervene or take any other
legal actions in cases involving the Af-
fordable Care Act, but in particular,
the Texas v. United States case, where
a court recently ruled that the Afford-
able Care Act was unconstitutional due
to the elimination of the individual
mandate.
If this all sounds familiar to you, it
should. Last week, at the start of the
116th Congress, the House voted on
title I of the rules package that in-
cluded the same provisions giving the
Speaker the same authority to inter-
vene in the same case.
Actually, the Speaker has already
filed three motions to intervene in the
Texas case the same day the rule was
passed last week. The fact is, nothing
has changed between last week and
today, and the Speaker does not need
to be given this authority again.
But what are the facts?
The facts are that this bill, the Af-
fordable Care Act, was sold to the
American people on a misrepresenta-
tion. If you like your doctor, you can
keep your doctor. You may remember
that. If you like your insurance, you
can keep your insurance. Your pre-
mium is going to be down by $2,500.
And, of course, famously: We’ve got to
pass the bill to find out what is in it.
As a practical matter, people are
forced to buy insurance that they may
not want; that they certainly cannot
afford; and, in fact, that they are afraid
to use because the deductible and the
copay is so high.
So, again, I am not sure how the
House is intervening in the judicial
process to support a failing policy
while millions of Americans are func-
tionally uninsured. I don’t understand
how that helps us to deliver better ac-
cess to care in north Texas and across
the country.
Americans should see this for what it
is: a facade of the Democrats who want
to revive the individual mandate under
the guise of protecting Americans with
preexisting conditions. I think the
House can be more effective in deliv-
ering on the promises of the American
people. That should be the goal of this
House. It is not the goal of the House
today, unfortunately.
I urge my fellow Members to vote
‘‘no’’ on this bill.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. SCOTT), the distinguished
chairman of the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman
from Florida for her distinguished serv-
ice as the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, and I thank her for
yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of this resolution. Legal scholars
from across the ideological spectrum
agree that this latest challenge to the
Affordable Care Act is legally frivo-
lous. However, because of the dev-
astating impact that it will have on
Americans, it is critical that we use
our authority to intervene on their be-
half.
If Republicans successfully dismantle
the Affordable Care Act, the con-
sequences will be felt by all Americans,
including the millions of people with
employer-sponsored coverage. They
will lose protections for patients with
preexisting conditions; they will lose
prohibitions on annual and lifetime
coverage limits; they will lose access
to low- or no-cost preventive care; and
they will lose the popular provision
which allows young people to stay on
their parents’ insurance policies up to
the age of 26.
These protections are all a product of
the Affordable Care Act, and they are
all at risk. We can’t take the chance on
this lawsuit being successful and then
wait for a replacement, because we al-
ready know what the replacement will
be. The House-passed replacement for
the Affordable Care Act from a few
years ago would have resulted in mil-
lions of fewer people with insurance
and according to CBO, the costs would
go up 20 percent the first year, insur-
ance would cover less than it covers
now; and those with preexisting condi-
tions would lose their protections.
That is what would happen if this law-
suit is successful.
This vote is about fulfilling our re-
sponsibility to act in the best interests
of the American people. I encourage
my colleagues to support the resolu-
tion.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. WALDEN), my good friend, who is
also the former chairman of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee and
current ranking member.
Mr. WALDEN. Madam Speaker, I rise
in opposition to title III of the Demo-
crats’ rules package which, as you have
heard, paves the way for Speaker
PELOSI to unilaterally take legal ac-
tion on behalf of the entire House of
Representatives in the ongoing court
case surrounding the constitutionality
of the Affordable Care Act and any fu-
ture court cases on the ACA as she sees
fit. That is a pretty big blank check.
Madam Speaker, first of all, I object
to this vote on the grounds of pure
common sense. The authority we are
voting on today was already given to
the Speaker last week under title I of
the Democrats’ rules package. You can
look it up. It is right there, beginning
on page 30. You will find it after the
provisions that make it easier for
House Democrats to increase taxes and
to set up automatic debt limit in-
creases. Not to mention, Speaker
PELOSI has already filed three motions
to the court to intervene in the case
since last week’s vote.
Moreover, Democratic Attorneys
General from intervening States are al-
ready defending the law in the case,
and the judge’s ruling has already been
stayed and appealed. So this is an un-
necessary waste of time, paper, and
ink.
I can only assume part of the reason
for today’s show vote is to distract
from Democrats’ real radical views on
healthcare.
Madam Speaker, where is the single-
payer, $32 trillion government takeover
of healthcare bill which ends employer-
and union-sponsored healthcare and
forces the 158 million Americans who
get their healthcare through their job
into a one-size-fits-all government-run
plan?
A majority of House Democrats sup-
ported that proposal—or one very like
it—in the last Congress. When will
they keep their promise to bring that
plan up for a vote?
Madam Speaker, today’s vote to re-
peat the authorities given the Speaker
last week is just for show. It is not a
serious exercise in legislating. Mean-
while, last week, Republicans brought
a powerful but simple amendment to
the floor that would have actually
called on this body to legislate on
something we all could agree needs to
be done, and that is to lock in protec-
tions for patients with preexisting con-
ditions. But, unfortunately, in a fit of
partisanship, Democrats voted that
down.
Therefore, I urge my colleagues to re-
ject this unnecessary political theater
today and vote ‘‘no’’ so we can work to-
gether expeditiously to guarantee pre-
existing condition protections for all
Americans, and do so in a manner that
can withstand judicial scrutiny.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. DOGGETT).
Mr. DOGGETT. Madam Speaker,
Trump and his apologists are so very
good at breaking things. It is just fix-
ing them they can’t seem to find an an-
swer to.
This underlying lawsuit is little more
than a conspiracy between a crimi-
nally-indicted Texas Republican attor-
ney general and the Trump administra-
tion that couldn’t find its voice when it
was time to defend protections for pre-
existing conditions for so many Amer-
ican families.
There is no doubt there is collusion.
There is Republican collusion right
here. It is collusion to strip away life-
saving protection from so many Ameri-
cans.
Intervening in this lawsuit is an im-
portant step in protecting families
from the uncertainties of fine-print de-
nials, excessive premiums, inadequate
coverage, and just basic access to af-
fordable healthcare.
We must intervene because of a pre-
existing condition—and it is a rather
unusual one. It is called amnesia.
These Republicans have political am-
nesia. They cannot remember before
the Affordable Care Act how many
families got a diagnosis of bankruptcy
at the same time they got a diagnosis
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:04 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.059 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H341
January 9, 2019
of a severe disease or experienced an
accident.
They had over 60 votes to repeal the
Affordable Care Act, but they never
could come up with a plan to present to
this House to replace the Affordable
Care Act because, for all of its short-
comings, it is the best answer right
now to the needs of the American peo-
ple.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. ROE), my good friend, the
former chairman of the Veterans’ Af-
fairs Committee and now its current
ranking member.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposi-
tion to title III of the Democratic rules
package, which will allow House Demo-
crats to file a motion in Texas v.
United States defending the constitu-
tionality of the ACA.
This lawsuit, which was filed by more
than 20 State Attorneys General, is
about individual liberty and whether
the Federal Government can force indi-
viduals to purchase a product.
When the Supreme Court upheld the
constitutionality of the ACA 6 years
ago, it did so under the logic that the
individual mandate was a tax. I dis-
agreed with that rule then, but because
we now have repealed the tax, the Su-
preme Court’s rationale for upholding
the law was applied by the district
court when it found the mandate
inseverable from the law and struck it
down.
The promise of the ACA, which we
can all agree on, was to increase access
to, and lower the cost of, healthcare. In
my State of Tennessee alone, the aver-
age premium prices have gone up 176
percent in 8 years, with deductible lev-
els that are nothing more than the
equivalent to catastrophic coverage.
Let me give you an example, Madam
Speaker. The majority of the
uncollectible debt in the hospital
where I work are people with insur-
ance, not without insurance. Giving
people access to a card does not nec-
essarily equal coverage. That is why, in
my district alone, you had nearly the
same number of people who paid the
tax that actually got the benefit.
In the ruling in Texas v. U.S. the
courts are giving Congress an oppor-
tunity for a much-needed do-over. I
spent over 30 years of my life taking
care of patients, and in that time I
never saw a Republican or Democratic
disease. Preexisting conditions can af-
fect anyone. All of us in the House
want to ensure those affected by seri-
ous illnesses can access affordable care.
Rather than keeping the cost burden
on the middle class, let’s work together
to protect those with preexisting con-
ditions while also trusting Americans
to make their own decisions when buy-
ing coverage that best fits the needs of
their family.
How can we find common ground?
Well, if you have ever received your
health insurance from an employer in
the private sector, you were covered by
ERISA and its updates under HIPAA,
which protect people with preexisting
conditions from being denied coverage.
Unfortunately, the rules weren’t the
same for the individual and small-
group markets, and that is where the
problem arose.
A simple solution to this problem is
to apply those large-group ERISA pro-
tections to individual and small-group
markets and the preexisting coverage
question is solved.
Whether you are for or against the
passage of the ACA, it should be clear
that the law is broken. Instead of con-
tinuing to support a law that clearly
isn’t working, why don’t we come to-
gether and enact a real patient-cen-
tered, free-market healthcare system
that treats individuals and small
groups like big corporations.
The bottom line is that the ACA has
failed, at least in my State. The House
of Representatives has more important
work to focus on than getting involved
in litigation to resuscitate a law that
is broken and is causing problems for
many individuals and families across
America.
If we defeat title III of the Demo-
cratic rules package, I am hopeful this
will be the first step in agreeing that
we should be focusing on bipartisan re-
forms to our healthcare system, in-
stead of wasting our time on litigation.
I urge opposition to the rule.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Pennsylvania (Ms. SCANLON), a
distinguished member of the Rules
Committee.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in strong support of the
rules package before us. This package
includes, among other things, a critical
provision defending the affordable
healthcare of Americans.
I came to Congress with a resounding
message from my constituents to pro-
tect and expand affordable, quality
healthcare. Parents should not have to
choose between paying rent or
healthcare for their children. Students
should not have to choose between pay-
ing for school or health insurance.
Children should not have to spend
sleepless nights worried about paying
for aging parents’ healthcare.
b 1545
It is unacceptable that American
families are one healthcare emergency
away from financial ruin.
This administration is once again un-
dermining the Affordable Care Act and
ignoring a clear message from the
American people. Quality healthcare is
a right and should not be the privilege
of the few who can afford it.
I will continue using my voice in
Congress to advocate for those who
need us most, pushing this body to pro-
tect the healthcare of my constituents.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. WENSTRUP), my good friend, who
not only provided lifesaving care to
men and women in uniform in another
career, but has actually done that in
this body as well.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I
will admit I am a little bit confused
here today because the part of the rule
package that we are debating was al-
ready passed by the Democratic major-
ity last week. So why are we here
again?
I hear some people say: ‘‘I stand in
strong support of this.’’ Well, good.
You did last week, too.
I suspect some see it as trying to
falsely claim that Republicans are op-
posed to protecting Americans with
preexisting conditions. I guarantee
you, as a doctor, there is no part of me
that doesn’t want people in America to
have insurance and coverage for their
conditions. There is no part of me. In
fact, it is just the opposite.
Just last week, in one of our first
votes this year, every Republican in
this Chamber voted for the House to
take action this month that—word for
word, our Republican amendment
said—‘‘guarantees no American citizen
can be denied health insurance cov-
erage as the result of a previous illness
or health status’’ and ‘‘guarantees no
American citizen can be charged higher
premiums or cost sharing as the result
of a previous illness or health status.’’
Curiously, not one of my Democratic
colleagues voted for this.
This is only the most recent action of
many we have taken to support and
protect Americans with preexisting
health conditions in the last few years.
Rather, this rule package allows
Speaker PELOSI to use the U.S. House
as a shield to try and defend the indi-
vidual mandate, the same mandate
that this very Chamber has already ze-
roed out.
The individual mandate, in its origi-
nal form, forced Americans to buy
something simply because they are
alive, or they will be penalized. This
said that Congress has the authority to
penalize Americans for not buying
something, penalize you just because
you are alive. How is that for freedom?
By the way, there is a difference be-
tween dismantling a flawed bill, the
flawed Affordable Care Act, and mend-
ing its every flaw, which we have tried
to do and, in some cases, we have done.
But going back to the rule, this takes
away each Member’s right to vote on
how we want the House to engage in
litigation. Rather, it gives more power
to one person and takes power away
from this body as a whole to have a say
in the matter.
I urge my colleagues to oppose this
title of the rules package. It is bad pol-
icy, bad posturing.
And since this vote is a repeat, I re-
peat: Republicans are and have been
and have supported and have voted for
coverage for Americans with pre-
existing conditions, period.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. NADLER), the distin-
guished chairman of the Committee on
the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.060 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H342 January 9, 2019
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the distinguished gentlewoman
for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of this resolution authorizing the
House to defend the Affordable Care
Act in court against baseless but po-
tentially devastating litigation de-
signed to dismantle the law.
Because of the ACA, which passed
without a single Republican vote, mil-
lions of Americans now have access to
health insurance, including those with
preexisting conditions. Yet ever since
it became law, the ACA has been the
target of nonstop attacks by Repub-
lican politicians intent on stripping
Americans of the important protec-
tions guaranteed by the law.
For the last 8 years, when the Repub-
licans controlled the House, they voted
62 times to repeal the ACA but never
once came up with a proposal to pro-
tect Americans with preexisting condi-
tions.
Despite all the Republicans’ efforts,
the ACA still stands today, continuing
to guarantee access to affordable, qual-
ity health insurance. But now, 21 Re-
publican State attorneys general have
launched a new attack on the law,
based on tortured logic and flimsy
legal reasoning.
The Department of Justice has a
duty to defend every duly enacted law,
absent exceptional circumstances. The
Trump administration, however, has
broken this well-established norm and
now refuses to defend the law from this
latest challenge, a decision that caused
several career Justice Department at-
torneys to resign in protest.
The Judiciary Committee will be in-
vestigating how the Trump administra-
tion made this blatantly political deci-
sion to abdicate its responsibility, and
the committee will be holding those re-
sponsible accountable for their actions.
While the administration turns its
back on people with preexisting condi-
tions and people who would go bank-
rupt without the law’s cost-sharing
subsidies, with this resolution, the
House of Representatives has an oppor-
tunity to provide the defense that the
ACA and the millions of Americans
who depend on it every day deserve.
Although legal scholars across the
ideological spectrum find the plain-
tiffs’ arguments laughable, it has found
a sympathetic judge in Texas who re-
cently ruled the entire law must be
overturned.
This resolution would authorize the
House to intervene in the case as it
works its way through the courts on
appeal to ensure that the law’s vital
protections are properly defended in
court.
I urge my colleagues to support this
resolution and to allow the House to
fend off this latest Republican assault
against the health and well-being of
Americans.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. ARRINGTON),
my good friend.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
rise in strong opposition to this rules
package authorizing the House to in-
tervene in the lawsuit against
ObamaCare, Texas v. United States.
The American people sent us here to do
a job: to solve problems, to improve
their lives, and to move this country
forward. However, my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle seem to be
more interested in playing partisan
games than problem-solving.
Why do I say this? Because Demo-
crats have already voted to pass this
exact provision last week. They have
even filed three motions to intervene
in the ObamaCare lawsuit.
On the substance of the matter at
hand, ObamaCare is one of the worst,
most destructive pieces of legislation
to have ever passed this House, and the
facts on that are indisputable. Just ask
some of my hardworking, God-fearing
farmers and ranchers and small busi-
nesses in west Texas.
ObamaCare has ruined our healthcare
system; it is crushing our economy;
and it is breaking the backs of our
small businesses and our working fami-
lies.
Madam Speaker, we shouldn’t spend
another day nor should we spend an-
other dime on attempting to prop up
this top-down, government-controlled
healthcare system that is collapsing
under its own weight. It is unconscion-
able to me and the American people to
continue to throw good money after
bad policy like this.
Instead of doubling down on
ObamaCare and its flawed framework
of mandates, taxes, and regulations
that drove healthcare costs to the
Moon, we should be working on policies
together that truly reduce costs and
continue to provide access to the great-
est quality of care in the world here in
the United States.
No government plan, no government
program can divine these desired out-
comes. Only a healthy market with ro-
bust competition and maximum con-
sumer choice can achieve them.
Now, my colleagues on the other side
talk a lot about protecting Americans
with preexisting conditions. I agree.
My colleagues on the Republican side
agree. That is why we passed our
Healthcare Reform Act with protec-
tions for folks with preexisting condi-
tions. That is why, last week, Repub-
licans voted to ensure Americans with
preexisting conditions are protected.
This is a game. We have already done
it. We have already voted. We stand
firm to protect people with preexisting
conditions.
But today’s vote isn’t about pro-
tecting people with preexisting condi-
tions. It is about Democrat-produced
political theater. That is what it is. It
is about trying to save what is left of
ObamaCare, and it is actually in prepa-
ration for a single-payer system, for so-
cialized medicine, and for complete
government control of our healthcare
economy.
Madam Speaker, the American peo-
ple deserve real solutions to affordable
care. They deserve real solutions: mar-
kets that are free to create any number
of products and services.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
the gentleman from Texas an addi-
tional 30 seconds.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
repeat: The American people deserve
real solutions to the desired outcome
of affordable care, and that is markets
that are free to create any number, any
variety of products and services and
people who are free to choose those
products and what is best for them and
their families.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. ALLRED).
Mr. ALLRED. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to correct an injustice and to
urge passage of this resolution that
will put the United States House back
on the side of the people and protecting
their healthcare.
For far too long, seeking to fulfill
empty partisan promises at the ex-
pense of the American people, politi-
cians in Congress have sought to tear
apart the Affordable Care Act and its
protections for people with preexisting
conditions. That ends today.
When the American people chose this
new Congress, they said: Enough with
the sabotage and the kowtowing to spe-
cial interests seeking to divide us.
Too many times this very body has
voted against the American people to
repeal the Affordable Care Act and,
with it, the protections for people with
preexisting conditions. Now, a Federal
court has put at risk those same pro-
tections.
That brings me to the story of Nat-
alie. As I traveled around my district,
which I am now truly honored to rep-
resent, I met Natalie. She told me her
story.
She was a lawyer with young chil-
dren, Hugo and Mia, and was married
to a law professor at Southern Meth-
odist University. I met with her on the
same day that the House had voted to
repeal the Affordable Care Act. I
learned that Natalie had stage IV can-
cer and that she had come to my event
from her chemotherapy treatment. She
explained to me that her goal was to
fight her cancer as long as possible so
that her children would know her.
Natalie came to my event that day
because she was worried about future
moms like her who would lose their
care if the Affordable Care Act was re-
pealed. Natalie was worried about a re-
turn to the bad old days, with lifetime
caps and discrimination against people
with preexisting conditions. She knew
that, because of her treatment, she
would have blown through any lifetime
cap in a matter of weeks.
Stories like Natalie’s are all too
common across America.
Tomorrow will be 1 year, to the day,
since we lost Natalie, and she is still an
inspiration to me and to many other
north Texans and Americans across the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.062 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H343
January 9, 2019
country. You see, Madam Speaker,
Natalie spent her final days, while she
was in pain, while she was saying her
good-byes, emailing and posting on so-
cial media and talking to her commu-
nity about the need to protect the Af-
fordable Care Act so that other moms
could get the care that they need.
That is who we are as north Texans,
and that is who we are as Americans.
We believe in something larger than
ourselves. We believe in protecting 130
million Americans and more than
320,000 people in my district in north
Texas who have a preexisting condi-
tion.
Let me be clear. The Affordable Care
Act is not perfect, and this resolution
does not solve all the healthcare prob-
lems facing our country. But, as one of
our first acts, I hope that this measure
tells the American people that we are
on their side.
I know I speak for many of my col-
leagues when I say that this Congress
will not stop working for the American
people. We will not relent to the spe-
cial interests and the forces of cyni-
cism. The American people now, more
than ever, need us to work together to
address the rising cost of healthcare.
Americans like Natalie and her family
deserve no less.
Madam Speaker, it is truly an honor
to address this body for the first time,
and it is my first act to lead this reso-
lution to defend the Affordable Care
Act.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from California (Mr. NUNES),
my very good friend and former chair-
man of the House Intelligence Com-
mittee and current ranking member of
that committee.
Mr. NUNES. Madam Speaker, I am
struggling to understand what we are
doing here today. We already know
that the Democrats go to great lengths
to defend the unconstitutional Afford-
able Care Act.
They really believe that Congress can
and should force the American people
to buy something, whether they want
it or not. We know this because they
made everyone vote on this same provi-
sion in title I of the rules package last
week. Now we are here voting on the
same thing this week.
‘‘Why?’’ some Americans may ask.
Because Democrats are trying to sell
this farce as a vote to protect people
with preexisting conditions.
But this is not a healthcare vote.
This is a vote to give cover because the
law they passed was unconstitutional,
and the individual mandate was deeply
unpopular.
They could put an end to this by
passing a law that abides by the Con-
stitution, but they are not willing to
do that. Instead, we are wasting time
here today voting on something for the
second time.
Republicans know that we can pro-
tect the people with preexisting health
conditions without infringing on basic
freedoms. This is why, last week, we
voted on an amendment to the rules
package to guarantee no American cit-
izen can be denied health insurance
coverage as a result of a preexisting
condition.
b 1600
I voted to ensure that no American
citizen can be charged a higher pre-
mium or cost sharing as a result of a
preexisting condition.
But the majority would rather spend
time and taxpayer money defending
the constitutionality of the ACA’s indi-
vidual mandate. They seem to have for-
gotten that the Supreme Court told
them, back in 2012, that Congress does
not have the power to make the Amer-
ican people purchase a product.
The Democrats should not spend
more taxpayer money defending the in-
defensible.
Congress should focus its energy on
making healthcare more affordable and
giving people meaningful choice in
healthcare again.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. BERA).
Mr. BERA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of title III of the
House rules package. A district court
recently ruled that the entire Afford-
able Care Act was unconstitutional,
and, sadly, President Trump’s Justice
Department did nothing to defend the
Affordable Care Act. They even urged
the judge to strike down protections to
those with preexisting conditions.
Now, I have heard and I understand
my colleagues on the other side of the
aisle don’t like the Affordable Care
Act, but not to defend it, not to talk
about the benefits, is not defensible. I
have heard many of my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle talk about
how they want to protect those with
preexisting conditions. Well, this is one
way to protect those with preexisting
conditions.
I see this as a doctor. I don’t want to
go back to the days when I would see
patients who had cancer, had diabetes,
had heart conditions, and through no
action on their own, lost their health
insurance. I don’t want to go back to
the days where the health insurance
companies could deny people those cov-
erages—often necessary lifesaving
therapies and coverage. This is about
doing the right thing for America’s pa-
tients. That is why we are here.
Now, what title III of the rules pack-
age does is it says that the House of
Representatives should intervene in
Texas v. United States. If this lawsuit
succeeds, it is going to repeal the Af-
fordable Care Act with no solution.
None. Millions of Americans are going
to lose their health insurance coverage.
The American public spoke loud and
clear. They want this body to sit down,
to come together to provide coverage
for America—affordable coverage. That
is what we need to do as Democrats
and Republicans. I urge my colleagues
to vote for title III and to make it
clear this Congress will protect those
with preexisting conditions.
I have got friends on the other side of
the aisle. I heard many of them talk
about how they want to protect those
with preexisting conditions. A vote
against title III of the rules package is
a vote against protecting those Ameri-
cans.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume
simply to make a quick point.
Actually, a vote against this provi-
sion is not a vote against preexisting
conditions. It is a vote to limit the
power of the Speaker—not to allow the
Speaker to, on her own, decide whether
she is going to intervene in law cases
where, frankly, the intervention of this
House isn’t necessary. There are States
litigating against the ACA. There are
States litigating for the ACA. The idea
that either side is unrepresented, I
think, just doesn’t bear serious scru-
tiny.
So, you know, not only is it an exer-
cise in futility, in my opinion, it is an
exercise that is totally unnecessary be-
cause we have already given the Speak-
er that power. The majority has al-
ready seen fit to do that. So why we
are wasting time, money, and effort in
this particular exercise eludes me.
With that, Madam Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. NEAL), the distin-
guished chairman of the Committee on
Ways and Means.
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I thank
Secretary SHALALA for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I feel like I have a
preexisting condition. It is arguing
about the Affordable Care Act. For 10
years we have argued about the Afford-
able Care Act. A campaign is part of
forming a government, and no issue
resonated with the American people in
the last election like the issue of pre-
existing conditions.
My friend, the gentleman from Cali-
fornia, previously said he didn’t under-
stand why people had to buy something
that they didn’t want. Well, we require
people to buy automobile insurance.
And, by the way, you don’t buy auto-
mobile insurance the day after you
have been in an automobile accident.
And we probably don’t want to buy
homeowners insurance, but, guess
what; we don’t buy it the day after our
house is burned down. We buy it be-
cause the genius of insurance is the
spreading of risk.
So I ask the following rhetorical
question, and that is, why should the
rest of us annually put $1,000 into our
premiums for health insurance to take
care of those who don’t want to buy
health insurance?
So what this discussion and argu-
ment is really about, for the moment,
is the following: The child who is born
with diabetes is then told, under the
old system, that they can never buy
health insurance, or, if they do, it has
to be rated—back to the old actuarial
argument about how do we spread risk.
The protections that were built into
the Affordable Care Act, which I helped
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.063 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H344 January 9, 2019
to write, were based upon the idea of
using the best principles of the market-
place while simultaneously using the
ability of the Federal Government to
prod certain behaviors, and those be-
haviors included a ban on preexisting
conditions as an option for people who
didn’t want to buy health insurance.
So what did the other side do? They
filed the lawsuit. Now, they generally
lecture us on activist judges. They de-
cided that they would challenge what
has become okay with the American
people, the Affordable Care Act. They
would challenge it in the Federal
courts and really didn’t want to bring
down the entire Affordable Care Act.
Instead, they wanted to disassemble
piece by piece parts of the Affordable
Care Act that really, in a lot of ways,
have made for its success.
There is no argument with the fol-
lowing statistic that, today, between 17
and 20 million Americans have health
insurance that didn’t have it before the
Affordable Care Act.
And back to those people who, by the
way, their system of healthcare was
the emergency room. So, in the emer-
gency room, we all know, it is a pretty
poor way to get health insurance be-
cause it really doesn’t emphasize pre-
ventive care.
So all of these options that we built
into the Affordable Care Act, including
making sure that people that had pre-
existing conditions couldn’t be ex-
ploited in the marketplace with undue
costs, this argument that we continue
to have, Madam Speaker, here about
the Affordable Care Act could be rec-
tified in short order by both sides just
working together to improve the Af-
fordable Care Act.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, to my good friend,
the distinguished chairman of the
Ways and Means, I think that offer is
made quite sincerely, and I think it
will be taken up by our side. We can
work together in a bipartisan way to
do exactly what the gentleman sug-
gests.
In my opinion, this particular meas-
ure doesn’t do that. It doesn’t get us
anywhere. It involves us in litigation
unnecessarily, and it doesn’t—by the
way, for the second time, since we gave
the Speaker this authority—I didn’t
vote for it, my friends did, that is their
right, she has it, so why we are here on
the floor today arguing about it mys-
tifies me.
But, again, I know my friend’s offer
is made in good faith. I think it will be
taken up in good faith. We should work
together to do exactly what my friend
suggests, that is, guarantee that every
American is protected from preexisting
conditions and able to go into the mar-
ketplace and buy insurance at a prac-
tical and reasonable rate that they can
afford.
So, with that, Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. PALLONE), the distin-
guished chairman of the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
thank—I call her the Secretary. She is
one of my colleagues now. Congress-
woman SHALALA knows more about
healthcare, and, I should say, probably
is more of an expert on it than anybody
else in this body.
I want to basically contradict what
my Republican colleagues have been
saying. They are saying that this is not
about preexisting conditions. That is
exactly what this debate is about.
We have seen the Republicans in the
House, the President, consistently try
to sabotage the Affordable Care Act.
And what does that mean? That means
sabotage to make it more difficult for
people with preexisting conditions to
get coverage. It means bringing out
junk insurance that doesn’t have good
benefits. It means bringing back all the
discriminatory practices that existed
before the ACA, like lifetime or annual
limits or rescissions.
You know, before the Affordable Care
Act, you could actually buy a policy
and the insurance company could come
in and rescind the policy because they
were spending too much money on your
insurance policy. We worked very hard
with the ACA to get rid of all these dis-
criminatory practices. They would
come back again if this lawsuit suc-
ceeds.
I don’t think there should be any
mistake. This lawsuit, brought by a
group of Republican attorneys general,
is nothing more than a continuation of
Republican efforts to sabotage the
healthcare of millions of Americans.
Having failed to repeal the law through
the legislative process, Republicans are
attempting to invalidate the law
through the Federal courts, and they
have, at least for now, succeeded at the
district court level.
Last month, Judge Reed O’Connor of
the Northern District of Texas declared
the entire ACA was invalid. His deci-
sion would eliminate the law’s protec-
tions for preexisting conditions, as well
as entirely unrelated provisions, such
as the Medicaid expansion and the clos-
ing of the Medicare prescription drug
donut hole.
This decision has been roundly criti-
cized by legal scholars. Conservative
scholars, like Jonathan Adler, joined
with other scholars in writing that the
decision was a mockery of the rule of
law and basic principles of democracy.
Judge O’Connor’s decision is an exer-
cise in raw judicial power. It is not the
job of the Federal judges to strike
down entire statutes without consid-
ering what Congress intended.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I am always de-
lighted when my friends on the other
side believe in judicial restraint, so it
is nice to see we have some new con-
verts in that.
I just make my basic point again,
Madam Speaker. We are here for no
particular reason debating something
that we did last week, giving that
power to the Speaker. I didn’t agree
with that vote. We had an opportunity
last week, actually, to take up a Re-
publican measure that would have leg-
islatively guaranteed protections for
preexisting. The majority chose not to
do that. So I have just forced back on
the conclusion that this is much more
about political theater than it is about
genuine substance.
I will say, though, in disagreeing
with my good friend from New Jersey,
I am not a lawyer. I don’t pretend to be
able to be an expert judge of the legal
merits, but I do think I would not so
blithely dismiss 20 State attorneys
general and a court that ruled in their
favor. It tells me that there are signifi-
cant legal issues here and that those
legal issues are going to be litigated in
due course.
What mystifies me is why we need to
be involved in it since there is high-
powered law from different States with
different points of view that are in this
right now.
So, again, I see no particular reason
to do this, although, with all due re-
spect, my friends have already given
the Speaker the power to do it, so I
don’t know why we need to do it a sec-
ond time. But, again, I am here to rep-
resent my colleagues on my side of the
aisle, and we will continue to do that.
With that, Madam Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the distinguished
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr.
CLYBURN), the majority whip.
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding me
the time.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to sup-
port this resolution to intervene
against the egregious Texas v. United
States lawsuit that seeks to end the
Affordable Care Act, or, as I like to call
it, the Civil Rights Act of the 21st Cen-
tury.
In a few days, we are going to be cele-
brating the birthday of Dr. Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr., who once said: ‘‘Of all
the forms of inequality, injustice in
healthcare is the most shocking and in-
humane.’’
Since the ACA was enacted, signifi-
cant progress has been made to lessen
the inequality in our healthcare deliv-
ery system. To dismantle those life-
saving protections now is unfounded
and unjust.
It is unjust to deny those with pre-
existing conditions access to
healthcare. It is unjust to cut off insur-
ance coverage to a child with cancer
because she has reached her maximum
lifetime benefits. It is unjust to charge
women more than we charge men for
healthcare simply because of their gen-
der. It is unjust to increase the cost of
seniors’ medications by reopening the
gap known as the donut hole in their
Medicare prescription drug coverage.
b 1615
It is unjust to tell young people just
starting out in life that they can no
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.065 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H345
January 9, 2019
longer remain on their parents’ insur-
ance policies.
It is unjust to reinstitute charges for
preventative healthcare, costing more
money in the long run when illnesses
go undetected for too long.
It is unjust to ask the working poor
not eligible for Medicaid to purchase
private insurance at the market rate
when they are struggling to feed their
families and keep a roof over their
heads.
Access to quality healthcare ought
not only be for those who can afford it;
it ought to be for those who need it. It
is unfortunate for us to deny
healthcare to people just because they
were born unhealthy.
A vote against this resolution is a
vote against providing the basic human
right to fair and equitable access to
quality, affordable healthcare for all
Americans.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, let me
advise my friend, I am prepared to
close. I see she has additional speakers,
so, for the moment, I will simply re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Wisconsin (Ms. MOORE).
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, being
sort of last in this debate gives you an
opportunity to hear all of the argu-
ments.
The question has been asked: Why
should we allow Speaker PELOSI to in-
tervene? Well, she authored the bill.
We need her to defend this bill, and we
believe that she has standing.
Another question that was raised was
about an initiative that was offered
last week and that this is just a the-
ater here today. Well, I was here the 60-
plus times that we tried to repeal the
Affordable Care Act. That is the true
theater.
And let me tell you something,
Madam Speaker. Why do we think that
there was such a strident effort to de-
stroy the Affordable Care Act? Because
our colleagues have told us it cost a lot
of money, and we have tried to prevent
insurers from maximizing their profits.
And how do they maximize their
profits? By denying the sickest people
with preexisting conditions—like the
people I met today, the kids with
neurofibromatosis, a serious illness
that causes tumors all through your
body and causes you to wake up in pain
every single day—if you can get rid of
them, then you won’t have to pay
much money; to impose lifetime limits
on coverage not just for people under
the ACA, but for everybody, including
those folks who get employer-based in-
surance.
Why have they tried to deny health
coverage to consumers, to provide es-
sential health benefits? Because they
want to provide these skeletal benefits,
this fig leaf of provisions for folks.
So I think that we need someone like
Speaker PELOSI to intervene, and I
think that she should have standing,
and this body ought to authorize it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY).
Mr. KENNEDY. Madam Speaker, last
month, a judge delivered a ruling to
gut the Affordable Care Act, a warning
shot that was fired at millions of
Americans of all ages, backgrounds,
and beliefs. The decision changed little
immediately, but that didn’t matter.
Patients again panicked because, yes,
they have been here before.
The family with a young child who
will spend their entire life battling dia-
betes, the father in remission, the
young woman facing addiction des-
perately seeking treatment, over the
past 2 years, they have watched their
government, led by a Republican Con-
gress and a reckless President, come
after their healthcare coverage again
and again and again.
So families wake up wondering if this
is the day. Is this the day where they
succeed, the day the President finally
wins, the day my coverage goes away,
the day I have to face my loved ones,
my kids, my ailing parents, and tell
them that we can’t afford the care to
make their suffering go away?
They deserve better, and that is why
I ask everyone to support this rules
package.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair would like to remind all Mem-
bers to refrain from engaging in per-
sonalities toward the President.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I in-
quire whether the gentleman from
Oklahoma is prepared to close. I am
prepared to close on my side.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, actually,
I know I informed the gentlewoman
differently, but my good friend, Mr.
BURGESS, got so excited by the debate
he came back and asked for an addi-
tional minute. So if I may, Madam
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS).
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
would just ask a simple question: What
has happened to your insurance pre-
mium since the passage of the Afford-
able Care Act? They have gone up.
They have gone up a lot.
What has happened to the cost of pre-
scription drugs since the passage of the
Affordable Care Act? They have gone
up. They have gone up a lot.
All I would suggest is there was a
better way to go about this. Repub-
licans have offered ideas. It really,
really would behoove us to work on be-
half of the American people to solve
these problems rather than to continue
to push this bill that has been so unfa-
vorable in the eyes of so many Ameri-
cans.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, in closing, I urge
opposition to this measure. The major-
ity is asking the House of Representa-
tives to authorize the Speaker to inter-
vene in a lawsuit over the legality of
the Affordable Care Act. Such an act is
unnecessary and wasteful.
It should have been obvious to the
majority that the Affordable Care Act
was and is poorly written and precar-
iously unbalanced as Republicans
warned them at the time it was passed,
and the intervening years have brought
those predictions to come about. Pre-
miums have skyrocketed. Insurers
have fled the market. The American
consumers have suffered as a result.
The appropriate solution is not to in-
tervene in a lawsuit but, instead, to
spend time working with Republicans
to craft a replacement fix to this bro-
ken system. And moreover, it is cer-
tainly not to do today, in a rule, what
we have already done in the same rule
last week.
Madam Speaker, I have enjoyed the
debate, but I am not exactly sure why
we had it. Again, it is always worth-
while to spend time on the floor with
my friends.
So, Madam Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ on
the previous question, ‘‘no’’ on the un-
derlying measure, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time,
and I thank my distinguished col-
league.
It has been more than 9 years since
Congress passed the Affordable Care
Act. It has withstood dozens of repeal
attempts, and the Supreme Court al-
ready has held it constitutional. Now a
district court in Texas has determined
that the whole law should be null and
void.
But the ACA is now so enmeshed in
our society that we sometimes forget
the numerous benefits that are now
threatened by this case. It is not sim-
ply protections for preexisting condi-
tions. It is subsidies to help the middle-
class families and small businesses to
buy health insurance. It is caps on out-
of-pocket health insurance costs. It is
an end to annual and lifetime limits.
No matter where someone gets their
healthcare, they have something to
lose if this case is upheld. Madam
Speaker, that is why the House of Rep-
resentatives must intervene in this
case. We need to stand with the Amer-
ican people, the overwhelming major-
ity of whom support the crucial bene-
fits of the Affordable Care Act.
The administration is unwilling to
intervene in this case and protect the
rights of Americans; thus, it is up to
Congress to defend and uphold this law
and all of the crucial protections it
provides for our citizens.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 5, the previous
question is ordered on the portion of
the divided question comprising title
III.
The question is on that portion of the
divided question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.068 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H346 January 9, 2019
minute vote on the portion of the di-
vided question comprising title III will
be followed by 5-minute votes on:
The motion to recommit on H.R. 264;
and
Passage of H.R. 264.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 235, nays
192, not voting 6, as follows:
[Roll No. 19]
YEAS—235
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—192
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—6
Buck
Frankel
Guest
Jones
Lynch
Mast
b 1650
Mr. MARCHANT changed his vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So the portion of the divided ques-
tion comprising title III was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
FINANCIAL SERVICES AND GEN-
ERAL GOVERNMENT APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to recommit on the bill (H.R. 264)
making appropriations for financial
services and general government for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes, offered by
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
GRAVES), on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk will redesignate the mo-
tion.
The Clerk redesignated the motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 200, nays
227, not voting 6, as follows:
[Roll No. 20]
YEAS—200
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—227
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:55 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H09JA9.REC H09JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H347
January 9, 2019
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—6
Amodei
Buck
Frankel
Guest
Jones
Mast
b 1700
Ms. SHALALA changed her vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
Under clause 10 of rule XX, the yeas
and nays are ordered.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 240, nays
188, not voting 5, as follows:
[Roll No. 21]
YEAS—240
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—188
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—5
Buck
Frankel
Jones Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Mast
b 1709
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
END SHUTDOWN
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, 19
days into the Trump shutdown, there is
no end in sight. Real Americans are
taking his blows.
Take Ms. J’s story. She is a con-
stituent of mine who is a contractor
for NASA Glenn Research Center in
Cleveland, Ohio.
With the Trump shutdown now into
the third week, she faces unnecessary
anxiety and uncertainty on whether
she will be paid. Yes, President Trump
is making America’s workers bear the
brunt of his shutdown.
Ms. J must weigh which bills to pay
if her paycheck doesn’t come. As the
mother of four, she fears the loss of
health insurance coverage if she can’t
cover her monthly premium. She de-
scribes herself as lucky to be in a two-
income household with the education
necessary to seek employment else-
where if it comes to the worst.
Others are not so fortunate. One of
her colleagues is an 81-year-old custo-
dial worker who has dedicated more
than 30 years doing the toilsome work
required of her profession. Ms. J asks:
‘‘Who will look out for her?’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 19:56 Apr 10, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H09JA9.REC H09JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H348 January 9, 2019
It is over time to end the Trump
shutdown, and the taxpaying public at
large expects the Government of the
United States to do the work they pay
for.
f
b 1715
RECOGNIZING DISTINGUISHED
CAREER OF JAY TIBSHRAENY
(Mr. BIGGS asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BIGGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to highlight the distinguished
career of Jay Tibshraeny, who has
served the community of Chandler, Ar-
izona, for more than 30 years. He has
just completed his seventh term as
mayor after being elected as a judge in
the Maricopa County Justice Court.
The city of Chandler experienced tre-
mendous growth under Mayor
Tibshraeny’s leadership.
Mayor Tibshraeny has not only
served in office for decades, he has
faithfully served his community his en-
tire life. Chandler would not be the
same without his presence and his tire-
less efforts to leave his city better than
when he found it.
Madam Speaker, Chandler will miss
his leadership. It was my honor and
privilege to work with him for the ben-
efit of our constituents. I wish him and
his family the best in their next chap-
ter of life.
f
PROTECTING SNAP
(Ms. WILD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. WILD. Madam Speaker, right
now, 12,643 Pennsylvanians are being
denied a paycheck because of a par-
tisan fight they have no control over.
It is time to end this shutdown and re-
store our government’s ability to pro-
tect our country and deliver vital serv-
ices to our people.
The longer this shutdown goes on,
the worse the impact will be, not just
on Federal workers, but on the commu-
nities that depend on them. Unless we
act, the Supplemental Nutrition As-
sistance Program, or SNAP, will be at
risk. Over 94,000 families in my district
depend on SNAP, and national data
shows that over 40 percent of bene-
ficiaries are children.
I have heard from food banks in my
community that they expect a twelve-
fold increase in people who need assist-
ance if SNAP recipients don’t receive
their benefits. That is unacceptable.
We must reaffirm our most funda-
mental duty: to stand with and support
our most vulnerable constituents. Let’s
act to protect people across this coun-
try from hunger and malnutrition by
protecting SNAP and reopening the
government.
MOURNING THE DEATH OF PIERCE
CORCORAN
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Madam Speaker,
today I rise with a heavy heart to
speak about my constituent, Pierce
Corcoran. On December 29, 2018, Pierce
was struck and killed by a vehicle op-
erated by an undocumented immigrant
in Knoxville.
This is a personal matter for me,
Madam Speaker, because I have been
friends with Pierce’s family for many
years, and they remain in my prayers.
Pierce was an incredible, hardworking,
fine Christian young man who will be
deeply missed.
People want to come to our country
for new opportunities and the pursuit
of happiness, and this Nation is full of
incentives that attract not only legal,
but also illegal immigrants. The most
recent data shows that there are ap-
proximately 606,000 overstayed visa re-
cipients and 10.7 million unauthorized
immigrants.
Removing incentives that encourage
unlawful immigration and demag-
netizing that attraction must be a pri-
ority for Congress moving forward.
With stronger laws and increased
border security, tragedies like the one
that occurred in my home district
could and should be avoided, and fami-
lies like Pierce’s might be saved from
such a heartbreaking situation.
f
REFORMERS CAUCUS
(Mr. CASE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 1, the
For the People Act, of which I am a
very proud cosponsor.
H.R. 1 is a critical step toward re-
versing the accelerating deterioration
in our Nation’s most cherished demo-
cratic foundation—the consent of the
governed—and taking back our govern-
ment for all citizens. It would fight
voter suppression; simplify voting; pro-
mote election security; curb special in-
terests and dark money in politics;
incentivize smaller, broader donations;
and fortify ethics laws.
I wish especially to recognize con-
tributions of Issue One and its Re-
Formers Caucus. These over 200 now-
former Members of Congress, Cabinet
members, and Governors have dedi-
cated themselves on a nonpartisan
basis to ‘‘Fix Democracy First.’’ My
own motivation to return to Congress
arose from my membership in this cau-
cus, and my pledge to my constituents
in Hawaii and throughout the country
was and is to fight to fully return our
government to the governed again.
H.R. 1 is first and foremost for the
people, and I urge its prompt passage.
Everything else depends on that.
RECOGNIZING DR. CHERYL DOZIER
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr.
Cheryl Dozier, who will be retiring as
president of Savannah State University
on July 31.
Dr. Dozier served for 8 years as the
13th president of Savannah State, a
historically Black university located
in the First Congressional District of
Georgia. Because of her work, the uni-
versity has made a number of excep-
tional improvements in different areas.
Dr. Dozier reactivated the honors
program, with more than 70 students
participating. She established a college
of education offering a bachelor of
science in education, created a scholar-
ship to help students who needed emer-
gency financial support in their last se-
mester, and opened two new STEM
buildings.
Thank you, Dr. Dozier, for your work
educating students in coastal Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I wish Savannah
State University the best of luck in
finding their next president.
f
THE GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Ms. SLOTKIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. SLOTKIN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to put a human face on the detri-
mental impact this government shut-
down has on real people, many who are
our most vulnerable, especially our
children who deserve for us to lead
with compassion.
Our families depend on the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, HUD. Right now, Madam Speak-
er, landlords are being asked to spare
families from eviction because HUD
funding expired and they are des-
perately trying to find reserve funds to
help our residents. This is not right.
In Wayne County, Michigan, there
are low-income families, elderly and
disabled residents, and over 450 housing
units whose contracts have expired
with another 150 expiring this month.
Make no question, they cannot fly to
Mar-a-Lago to stay warm in the middle
of winter.
The shutdown has caused HUD to
halt health and safety inspections, put-
ting our most vulnerable citizens yet
again in harm’s way. These folks will
suffer due to Trump’s shutdown.
Madam Speaker, the President gets
to sleep soundly while he plays polit-
ical and partisan games and the lives of
Americans are put in harm’s way. I up-
lift my neighbors and ask that they
know that people here do care about
them.
f
LAW ENFORCEMENT
APPRECIATION DAY
(Mr. YOHO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.075 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H349
January 9, 2019
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOHO. Madam Speaker, I rise in
honor of Law Enforcement Apprecia-
tion Day to show my support and ut-
most respect for peace officers across
the Nation.
Sadly, last year, we lost over 100 law
enforcement officers in the line of
duty. Of that number, three came from
my hometown. I am reminded today of
the continued sacrifice these officers
make and the dangers they face day
after day and night after night.
It is important that we always show
our appreciation for those who work
tirelessly to keep us safe. A lesson
could be learned from them on service.
They serve people, communities, and a
nation, not political ideologies.
This selfless service is both phys-
ically and mentally demanding on offi-
cers and their families. So, today, we
honor not only those who serve but
those who serve alongside them.
Law enforcement officers deserve our
utmost respect and recognition today
and every day. Please join me in
thanking these brave men and women
for their sacrifices and service to our
country and our communities.
f
CONGRATULATING DAN DAVIDSON,
ORANGE COUNTY’S FOOTBALL
COACH OF THE YEAR
(Mr. CORREA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Western High
School championship-winning football
coach Dan Davidson on being named
Orange County’s Football Coach of the
Year. Coach Davidson led the Western
High School Pioneers to the first-ever
CIF championship.
Coach Davidson built a winning team
of hardworking young men—inner city
kids, average athletes—and made them
believe in themselves and hard work.
Do you know what? They won CIF
this year in Orange County.
I want to congratulate Coach David-
son because not only did he create and
build a football team of winners, but he
also changed the lives of many stu-
dents in central Orange County.
Coach Davidson, congratulations. All
of us in Orange County are proud of
you. Keep up the good work.
f
THE PRESIDENT’S SPEECH
(Mr. GROTHMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to discuss the speech the
President gave last night. I was dis-
turbed to see that some people, in deal-
ing with the crisis, including a leader
on the other side of the aisle, said that
some people felt that a wall would be
immoral. There are people on late-
night talk shows saying we don’t have
a crisis here.
I am going to point out that 90 per-
cent of the heroin that comes in this
country, that kills over tens of thou-
sands of people every year in this coun-
try, comes across the border. I don’t
see how anybody could be so insensi-
tive as to say that is not a crisis and
not something we have to deal with at
this time.
In the last 10 years in Texas alone,
they have arrested over 2,900 people
who they believe commit homicide who
have come across the border. How in
the world is it not a crisis when 2,900
people—that is almost as many people
who died in the Twin Towers—are
killed by people who are in this coun-
try illegally? It is completely under-
mining our immigration law.
f
NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
DAY
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise tonight in recognition of National
Law Enforcement Day.
Our officers who hit the streets on
behalf of our safety, we need to show
them appreciation, and I do. We also
need to give them better tools and bet-
ter laws that make their job easier, be-
cause it is, indeed, at the end of the
day, us who they are protecting.
We have things happen in California,
like we saw with the tragedy, due to
lack of control of our borders, with Of-
ficer Singh, who unfortunately had to
give his life unnecessarily. These trag-
edies need to end.
On this day, as we recognize them,
the thin blue line between us as citi-
zens and the harm that could be
brought to us is greatly appreciated.
For those who are always out there
and every day get up, kiss their fami-
lies good-bye, and, hopefully, return
home at the end of that day safe as
they have kept us safe, we honor them.
We ask for God’s blessings for safety
and to return home each day intact as
they keep our communities intact.
We need to do a better job of hon-
oring them by giving them the tools,
the laws, and the secure borders that
would help them accomplish that.
f
SHUTDOWN AFFECTING FEDERAL
WORKERS
(Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today for our veterans
and government employees out of work
due to the Trump shutdown. On day
one, House Democrats took steps to re-
store certainty to people’s lives by
passing a complete funding package to
reopen the government.
Now we are preparing further action
to reopen government, so that we can
meet the needs of the American people,
protect our borders, and respect our
workers.
In fact, one of my constituents who
works for the IRS and specializes in
helping hurricane victims told me that
he and his wife, who is also a Federal
employee, both are affected by the
shutdown, and they cannot pay this
month’s mortgage and their other bills.
Madam Speaker, he worked 12 hours
a day in the aftermath of Hurricane
Michael. He was there for the people of
Georgia. It is past time we reopen the
government and be there for our Fed-
eral workers.
f
b 1730
YEAR-END REPORT
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. STE-
VENS). Under the Speaker’s announced
policy of January 3, 2019, the gen-
tleman from Nebraska (Mr. FORTEN-
BERRY) is recognized for 60 minutes as
the designee of the minority leader.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Madam Speak-
er, there is a twofold goal being sought
by many of us right now, and it is this:
to keep the government fully open and
to secure our border.
No one wins in a government shut-
down. No one wins if the border is not
safe. We ought to be able to rise above
the momentary difficulty, whether it is
a negotiation between the Senate and
the House, the President and the
House, the President and the Senate,
and get to those mutually compatible
goals of fully funding an operational
government, as well as ensuring that
Americans are safe and that we have
the right type of assistance to our bor-
der personnel, the right type of bar-
riers, the right type of technology, the
right type of preventative measures to
protect us all, and create the condi-
tions in which America can have a
truly just and humanitarian response
to those in need. That is what is at
issue this moment.
With that said, Madam Speaker,
though, I think it is important that, as
we are at the beginning of a new Con-
gress, as we were all sworn in last
week, as this Chamber was filled with
Members’ children and Members’ fami-
lies coming from such extraordinarily
diverse backgrounds, it was a
celebratory atmosphere. It always
tends to be that way, and then we get
into the hard, hard work of governing.
As President Kennedy once said, to
govern is to choose wisely, and in a so-
ciety divided by deep cultural and phil-
osophical difficulties, that actually
manifests itself here in the people’s
House.
It is incumbent upon those of us who
have been given this awesome responsi-
bility to govern to undertake the awe-
some responsibility of deciding to gov-
ern well, to carry forth that spirit of
the swearing in day with our families
here, and that oath of office, where
there is a common narrative around
who we are as a people and where we
should go as a Nation, reaching back to
our most honored-in-time traditions
and projecting them forward so Amer-
ica can have confidence that we have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.078 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H350 January 9, 2019
set up the guardrails for a successful
culture, a successful economy, a suc-
cessful society.
That is our job. It is going to take
difficult moments of prudential wres-
tling. It is my hope it will be done in a
civil manner and that people will make
their firm case and fight for those prin-
ciples, but do so with an eye toward
building consensus.
We in Nebraska, I believe, invented
the phrase ‘‘get ‘er done.’’ Just get ‘er
done. Fight for what you believe and
seek that which is possible. They are
not mutually incompatible goals. That
is our responsibility as legislators for
the good, the well-being of the entire
American public.
With that said, Madam Speaker, I
would like to do something a little bit
unique. I would actually like to look
back for a moment at the year in re-
view and some important things that
were accomplished.
We tend to be caught in what I call
the tyranny of the urgent, where what
is right in front of us completely occu-
pies us. Of course, we have a 24/7, 911
media that heightens all of this inten-
sity. It is what it is. But the reality is,
we did some pretty good things last
year, last term, and I want to review a
few of them.
In December, the House and Senate
passed a new farm bill with very strong
bipartisan support. For a lot of Ameri-
cans, it is very easy to overlook this
accomplishment. Our grocery bills are
some of the lowest in the world, our
food is readily available, and our safety
net for those who are vulnerable is well
considered.
It comes down to this: it is the vast-
ness of our land and the quality of our
soil and the gritty ingenuity of our
farmers and ranchers who lay the foun-
dation for America’s prosperity, sta-
bility, and economic vitality. We tend
to forget this because our food comes
somewhat easy to us.
The farm bill provides risk manage-
ment tools to maximize this natural
gift, allowing farmers and ranchers to
provide food security for our country,
our nutrition programs, as well as food
assistance to millions of others around
the world and protect those who are in
very vulnerable circumstances.
This bill also fosters conservation
practices that enhance the protection
of our soil and our wildlife habitat. I
am pleased by the increase in the num-
ber of acres in the Conservation Re-
serve Program.
The farm bill ensures that America
continues to lead the world in agricul-
tural innovation, food safety, and re-
newable fuels. In Nebraska, agriculture
is central to our well-being, our way of
life, and our culture. Our land-grant
universities help ensure that we main-
tain our tremendous productivity.
The farm bill is a once-in-every-5-
year piece of legislation. The birth of
such legislation is neither smooth nor
easy, but we got it done. It is a good
lesson for what we are facing now with
new challenges ahead of us. We got it
done in a very strong, bipartisan vote.
For Nebraskans, and many people
throughout rural America, the farm
bill is not just another Washington ac-
complishment. Like the rhythms of
planting and harvesting, it is an ex-
pected rite of legislative passage essen-
tial to who we are as a people, as
Americans, and to our well-being.
One of the things that I am excited
about, Madam Speaker, is that begin-
ning farmers and local food producers
are big winners in our farm bill. I am
very encouraged by the growing inter-
est of young people in seeking agricul-
tural opportunity.
We are witnessing a food culture
awakening, with local chefs, farmers
markets, and a keen interest in eating
local. The farm bill helps these next
generation farmers and food entre-
preneurs through new resources and
training, such as the Local Agriculture
Market Program, called LAMP, which
accelerates the farm-to-fork movement
across America, connecting local farm-
ers with families, consumers, and res-
taurants. This offers a big, big oppor-
tunity for us all.
I am also happy, Madam Speaker,
that the farm bill includes my provi-
sions to enhance the Farmer-to-Farmer
Program. For over 30 years, the Farm-
er-to-Farmer Program has connected
volunteer American farmers, agri-
culture extension experts, and others
with deep knowledge of the agriculture
industry with the world’s farmers
abroad. From dairy production to seed
selection to entomology, irrigation,
and crop yield determination improve-
ment, as well as farm credit, this shar-
ing of America’s agricultural expertise
dramatically enhances the capacity of
people elsewhere to grow their own
food, contributing to worldwide food
security, community well-being, and
human flourishing. Food security is
the key.
This year, we also passed the Global
Food Security Reauthorization Act. I
had worked on this important piece of
legislation when it first passed. It
amends the Global Security Act of 2016
to enable programs that support sus-
tainable agriculture around the world
and it extends assistance for inter-
national disaster relief and rehabilita-
tion, especially for emergency food
programs.
Switching topics a bit, Madam
Speaker, the fundamental duty that we
all have here is to keep America safe.
This requires a modern and properly
equipped military.
In recent years, our force structure
has significantly deteriorated. Planes
could not fly in certain circumstances
and other equipment was not available.
This past year in Congress, we passed
the 2019 National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act and the defense appropriations
bill. Again, most of the government is
open and functioning. We are working
toward the rest. This helps rebuild our
military after years of budget cuts. Our
Active Duty, National Guard, and re-
serve force personnel will receive a 2.6
percent pay raise, the largest in 9
years. We are going to purchase new
aircraft, tanks, ships, and other mili-
tary hardware to replace and upgrade
worn out equipment. These bills also
increase across-the-board funding for
additional personnel, training, mainte-
nance, and operations to ensure that
our military is always ready to defend
our Nation.
Madam Speaker, while a strong mili-
tary is vital, America’s safety and
prosperity also depends upon a skillful
mix of diplomacy and development.
Building authentic relationships
around the world and attacking the
root causes of structural poverty are
equally important goals that need to
work in tandem with a properly sized
and prepared military.
A race toward technological superi-
ority through ever-larger weapons sys-
tems will not unilaterally resolve our
most difficult security challenges. The
tech gap that we enjoy is closing, and
will continue to close rapidly.
Then, we have to ask ourselves: Then
what?
I often use the phrase ‘‘foreign policy
realism’’ to guide how I believe the
United States should engage in global
affairs. It is this: strong defense, smart
diplomacy, and sustainable develop-
ment. These are the three pillars.
Thanks to the dedication and cour-
age of our troops and our diplomats
and the exhaustive work of many oth-
ers who serve from their heart in far-
away places, we ought to be very grate-
ful that our country has been kept safe
from attack. There is always a how-
ever. However, real risks remain.
Northern Iraq and Syria are places
where ISIS and other dark forces could
regenerate. Iran meddles and frustrates
peace throughout the region. The
United States’ relationship with Saudi
Arabia is under severe scrutiny in light
of our intelligence findings that impli-
cated the Saudi Crown Prince in the
murder of an American-based Saudi
journalist. We also face risks from var-
ious actors to increasingly powerful,
yet more nimble and mobile nuclear
capabilities.
Madam Speaker, I lead the Nuclear
Security Working Group in Congress.
We had a very important dialogue with
the administrator of the National Nu-
clear Security Administration as we
closed out the last Congress to discuss
our coordination of nuclear non-
proliferation activities.
There are two core elements in pre-
venting an attack. The first, of course,
is deterrence. The second is threat re-
duction. Again, the dual work of our
military and other government efforts
in nuclear threat reduction has been
successful in preventing nuclear and
radiological terrorism.
The challenge is to constantly reas-
sess the changing threat environment.
A single failure can lead to cata-
strophic consequences. These efforts
must be matched with an equal effort
to halt and reverse nuclear prolifera-
tion throughout the world.
In a September conference, we gath-
ered with national and nuclear security
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.080 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H351
January 9, 2019
experts and former government offi-
cials across four administrations with
the singular goal to improve U.S. Gov-
ernment oversight and coordination of
nuclear counter and nonproliferation
efforts. As a result, I am going to pro-
pose the creation of a nuclear non-
proliferation council to enable a uni-
fied U.S. Government strategy on nu-
clear nonproliferation.
In the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act, which we passed, there is a
section also that perhaps has been
overlooked, but it is important. It will
speed the elimination of cesium chlo-
ride that can be used to make dirty
bombs. This policy change that we
were pleased to work on reduces the
risk of a catastrophic radiological at-
tack inside our borders.
In the face of expanding Russian and
Chinese nuclear arsenals, our defense
bill modernizes our nuclear deterrence
capability even as we hope to reestab-
lish a more stable and peaceful world.
Only through a combination of
strength and an openness to dialogue
can we avert a nuclear arms race.
b 1745
Back in June, the first-ever meeting
between leaders of the United States
and North Korea took place. President
Trump met face to face with Kim Jong-
un in a preliminary step towards rec-
onciliation and denuclearization.
The summit that was held in Singa-
pore was a first step to shift an esca-
lating trajectory of missile launches
and hostile rhetoric, reducing anxiety
for the region, America, and the world.
The summit took a new approach to
a long standoff. For the first time, a
U.S. President reached out directly to
a North Korean leader. The meeting
would not have happened, though—and
this is very important, Madam Speak-
er—without a unified global commu-
nity willing to support the pre-
conditions needed to encourage Kim
Jong-un to meet.
As an initial gesture of goodwill,
North Korea returned the remains of
U.S. service personnel and destroyed at
least one nuclear testing facility.
Clearly, much more progress is need-
ed, and a joint action plan will require
North Korea to continue to earnestly
engage in nonproliferation.
I believe that congressional leader-
ship should play a role here in policy
developments that can help the admin-
istration reduce the nuclear threats on
the Korean Peninsula.
Now, Madam Speaker, where I live,
Nebraska, plays a critical role in keep-
ing America safe. Offutt Air Force Base
and Strategic Command are essential
to America’s security, and the steady
work of guiding budgets and building
the necessary coalitions here in Con-
gress resulted in dramatic improve-
ments to both Strategic Command as
well as Offutt.
The new USSTRATCOM head-
quarters building is nearing comple-
tion. Its increased capability, begin-
ning this summer, will add to the com-
batant command’s charge as one of the
Nation’s most vital missions, and that
is nuclear deterrence.
A major repair of Offutt Air Force
Base’s runway will soon begin.
Again, I am very pleased, working
with the Nebraska delegation and our
colleagues, to continue to advance the
completion of the Strategic Command
as well as the enhancement of Offutt
Air Force Base.
Offutt is home to the Air Force’s 55th
Wing. The wing conducts intelligence,
surveillance, and reconnaissance mis-
sions. This is very important, Madam
Speaker, because, again, it is some-
thing that is overlooked in our tense
times.
One of the 55th Wing’s important air-
craft is the OC–135B. It flies in support
of the 34-international-member Treaty
on Open Skies, one of the last remain-
ing functional arms control regimes
that is operational between the United
States and the Russian Federation.
I am pleased that, working together,
we were able to enhance funding for
the OC–135B aircraft, again, vital to
one of the last linkages of agreements
with the Russians.
Madam Speaker, I want to turn to
another topic that really ought to be
at the forefront of our discussions, but
rarely is; if we are going to create a
21st century architecture for inter-
national stability, I believe it revolves
around two words: human dignity.
We traditionally think of diplomacy
as between nation-states. Increasingly
in our interconnected world, where
people can reach people in faraway
places in an instant or by travel in a
very short period of time, it is this
deeper transcendent idea that is still
operational in our culture. It underlies
our founding here in America. It is in
our earliest documents. It is alluded to.
This idea of human dignity, this sacred
space of personhood from which the
free exercise of conscience and right
reason and other rights that we tend to
take for granted, such as religious free-
dom, flow.
Human dignity, the two words that
mark the 21st century architecture for
how we ought to conduct international
affairs, reaching toward authentic rela-
tionships and dialogue with people
with whom we may have had tremen-
dous misunderstandings in the past,
tremendous tensions, or even the grave
consequences of war.
Again, as I mentioned earlier, Madam
Speaker, the tech gap is closing. We
can beat anybody anywhere. We can do
that and will continue to be able to do
that. And, again, a strong military is
absolutely essential to keeping the
peace and creating the conditions for
stability internationally, which pro-
tects us here at home.
But what happens when, again, the
miniaturization of technology is such
that any bad actor or any bad nation
has ready access to it; we have to ask
ourselves: And then what?
It is this idea of being in authentic
dialogue around this fundamental prin-
ciple that is operative in the way in
which we conduct our affairs; human
dignity, mutual respect for that sacred
space of the person and their perspec-
tives and their ability to use reason to
think for what is good for themselves,
their family, and their country.
Human dignity. This is manifesting
itself very clearly in something that,
again, is really overlooked in our dia-
logue because we are caught in the ur-
gency of the moment.
Let me point this out, Madam Speak-
er. It is about the country of Iraq.
America has given so much. We have
lost so much in Iraq that it is hard to
understand why engagement is ongoing
and necessary. The thought of it is ex-
hausting to the American people. It is
exhausting to our process.
But I need to point this out. Much is
at stake. Iraq once had a mosaic and an
ancient tapestry of religious pluralism
that existed there. Christians used to
total 1.5 million; now only a few hun-
dred thousand remain.
The Yazidi community, another an-
cient faith tradition that lived in
peace, in persecution off and on; but, in
attempting to live out their faith tra-
dition in northern Iraq, right now
there are about 400,000 people from the
Yazidi faith tradition trapped in ref-
ugee camps. They are internally dis-
placed persons living in tent struc-
tures, distant from their northern Iraq
homes, and many are children.
As of this past summer, we had a sta-
tistic—and it is hard to know where
this is now, given the dynamics—that
about 3,500 Yazidi women remained as
slaves of ISIS.
In fact, Madam Speaker, we are still
working through the logistics, but I am
very proud that I reached out to Nadia
Murad, who is a Nobel Peace Prize win-
ner, who was captured by someone
named Salman, the Iraqi, and held in
slavery.
She came to my office, and I spoke
with her and I said: I would like to
hear the fullness of your story, but I
recognize that is selfish on my part and
that the horror and the pain and the
tragedy are very real to you. So if you
do not wish to say anything, I com-
pletely understand, but I would like to
know more if you are willing.
And she agreed. And she told us, mo-
ment by moment about what happened
to her family, about how she was cap-
tured, sold, and how she eventually es-
caped, with the help of a Muslim fam-
ily, by the way.
I reached out to Nadia recently, and
I invited her to the State of the Union.
And she is going to come. We are work-
ing through it, and I am hopeful that
works out. Right now she is scheduled
to come, and I am proud of that.
Because it is not about me giving a
speech here about human dignity—and
I think Nadia would agree with me say-
ing this—it is not even about the trau-
ma that she went through and the need
to heal. The reason that she is speak-
ing so clearly and so courageously
about the horror she went through, in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.081 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H352 January 9, 2019
the midst of her great pain, is this sin-
gular concept right here: human dig-
nity.
How can civilizations survive if we do
not somehow rally ourselves around
this fundamental principle of respect-
ing the sacred space of personhood, of
allowing people the liberty to live in
peace and exercise their tradition as
they see fit, to do good things for their
family, to carry forward the wisdom of
their tradition and ages, through their
family life and the exercise of their
faith.
If we give up on that principle, where
do we go?
We can fight it out. We might even be
able to win. But the deeper answer lies
in the message that Nadia and so many
others are telling us, crying out for
justice and humanitarian relief and
begging for a new way to think, a new
way to order ourselves.
And because we have the philo-
sophical foundation here in America,
because we have been a just and gen-
erous society and we have welcomed
people who have fled persecution, the
world looks at us as this beautiful
place of the residual, of the protection
of that fundamental value that I be-
lieve every heart longs for: to be re-
spected, to be in community, to be
loved.
Now, here is what I think we ought
to do. We have about 5,400 American
troops in Iraq. And, with the help of
international partners, we have been
training Iraqi national forces and nur-
turing their capacity to lead and finish
the work of defeating the dark, twisted
horror of ISIS.
At the behest of the Vice President, I
went to Iraq last summer, and the Iraqi
forces that we have trained and the
military told me directly they have
fought and they have fought well.
Again, the irony of the attack of ISIS
and the genocide against Christians
and Yazidis and other religious minori-
ties and the killing of so many inno-
cent Muslim people is that it has cre-
ated a nationalism, if you will, among
the Iraqi people. And they have fought
hard and fought well and taken many,
many casualties.
But here is the key: An additional se-
curity footprint is still required in the
Nineveh Plain and Sinjar so that it is
possible—these are the areas in north-
ern Iraq proximate to Kurdistan. A new
security settlement in that area would
allow the return of Christians and
allow the return of Yazidis to their tra-
ditional homes and to begin to rebuild.
Again, as I mentioned, in July, at the
request of the Vice President, I joined
Administrator Mark Green of the
United States Agency for International
Development and Ambassador-at-Large
for International Religious Freedom
Sam Brownback, former Governor of
Kansas, and we went to Iraq together.
We were responding to reports that
our initial efforts to help the religious
minority communities were not having
the intended effect.
When we stepped into the dusty al-
leyways and streets and villages and
camps, we gained firsthand knowledge
of the broken conditions there. Our
trip included intense discussions with
Iraqi religious leaders, international
aid workers, displaced children, U.N.
personnel, as well as our military lead-
ership.
Despite the situation’s fragility,
there is certain progress being made,
including courageous acts of ecumeni-
cal alliance and revitalization, often
with international nongovernmental
organizations and faith-based entities.
My firsthand observation was this:
The situation in Iraq can be summa-
rized in three words: possibility, ur-
gency, and security.
Multiple levels of challenge remain.
Security is weak, and the prospect of
permanent refugee camps is real.
If Iraq loses its minority commu-
nities, the hope for a healthy pluralism
in the region will die, and a severe
chain of events will occur. Iran will ex-
pand its presence. ISIS could regen-
erate. Out-migration will ensue, and
Iraq will forever lose this extraor-
dinary ancient tapestry of multiple
faith traditions that are so vital for
human dignity, mutual respect, and
peace.
So, working with the administration,
our government, we are expanding and
accelerating our humanitarian support
for those who suffered genocide, and
this is all good. However, the financial
assistance must be combined with the
proper security settlement that en-
sures a just return for these belea-
guered minorities to the Nineveh Plain
and Sinjar.
So, Madam Speaker, this is what I
have done. I am recently getting ready
to reintroduce a resolution in the
House of Representatives to develop a
multinational security mission to inte-
grate local Christians, Yazidis, and
other minorities into the security
forces of the central government of
Iraq.
b 1800
Getting this right means justice for
the oppressed, stability for Iraq, and
the preservations of the principles nec-
essary for civilization itself. By doing
so, we will correct a fragile security
situation. The religious minorities will
have special autonomy for protection
of their own areas, but, again, under
Central Iraqi authority, under the Iraqi
flag. The mission will be international
in character under the Iraqi flag. I
know, right now, many other nations
are very willing to join this effort, to
put down a new security footprint that
would stabilize permanently that area
and allow people to go home.
Madam Speaker, there is another
issue related critically to human dig-
nity, and while it is not something
that we often talk and think about, we
are starting to get our mind around
how big tech is controlling our lives.
We are starting to worry that the sur-
veillance of our habits and our con-
tacts by people who shouldn’t be
surveilling us, these big tech compa-
nies, are creating multiple levels of dif-
ficulty. This growing problem here in
America is affecting the most vulner-
able persons here: our children.
The CEO of Google, a few months
ago, recently came before Congress,
and he did receive an earful. Big tech is
controlling our lives. Big tech is con-
centrated and dominating. Big tech is
going to necessarily come under in-
creased policy scrutiny to ensure that
individual privacy is protected and
competition is not stifled. But one
overlooked area, problem, is protecting
children online.
Now, Google’s YouTube is the most
popular online platform for children on
Earth, and 8 out of 10 U.S. children
from 6 to 12 use it daily. In April of
this past year, 23 child and privacy ad-
vocacy groups filed a complaint with
the Federal Trade Commission arguing
that Google’s YouTube online video
and advertising network systemati-
cally collected data on the online hab-
its of tens of millions of YouTube-
watching children under the age of 13,
and that data was sold to marketers.
Now, in support of this advocacy,
Congressman DAVID CICILLINE, who is
from Rhode Island, who sits on the
other side of the aisle from me, he and
I asked Google for answers on its pol-
icy regarding protection of children on-
line. The response was weak.
So our goal is to continue to try to
ensure that the internet’s extraor-
dinarily beneficial technological ad-
vances square with the time-honored
values essential to a humane, decent,
and dignified world. We want Google to
thoroughly answer our questions. We
want Google to be true to its original
motto: ‘‘Don’t Be Evil.’’
Now, Madam Speaker, let me turn to
another topic, and touch on it briefly,
to talk about what is germane in this
moment, given the discussions of bor-
der security, some of the things we ac-
tually worked on last year that weren’t
successful but, nonetheless, may pro-
vide some answers for the current di-
lemma that we find ourselves in.
America is, again, a kind and gen-
erous nation, and we have opened our
arms to persons who seek refuge and
want to rebuild their own lives and ac-
cept and embrace the deeper values of
our country. However, charity cannot
flow from chaos. No one is entitled to
enter America illegally. Law and order
create the conditions for justice and
compassion. Law and order create the
conditions necessary for charity, for
justice, and for compassion.
Now, the dynamics around immigra-
tion are complex and multilayered. A
Yale study came out last year that said
the number of persons illegally in the
United States could be as high as 30
million, but at least 40 percent of those
have overstayed a visa. And over the
past 30 years—and this is what we are
wrestling with right now—over the
past 30 years, incomplete border con-
trol, insufficient Federal enforcement,
and the cynical exploitation of the
poor for economic gain here in America
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.083 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H353
January 9, 2019
has created an attractiveness and led
to a failing system.
So, in an attempt to meet multiple
immigration challenges, to align the
various perspectives that are here in
Congress about a humane and compas-
sionate response about the need for ad-
ditional, necessary border resources,
about the need to update our immigra-
tion laws, this year we voted on legis-
lation that would stiffen internal en-
forcement, modernize our immigration
laws, and significantly increase border
resources.
The House-led legislation moved
more toward a merit-based immigra-
tion system, provided new funding for
more humane shelters at the border. It
accelerated the judicial review process,
and it made accommodations to re-
solve the anxious ambiguity for those
who are called the Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals, or DACA kids, chil-
dren who were brought here through no
fault of their own.
I supported these initiatives, but, un-
fortunately, they failed in the House.
And moving forward, I think we need
to keep certain other priorities at the
forefront of the immigration debate,
which are, of course, an increase in
border security, robust internal en-
forcement, and this additional priority
which is now only coming to light. We
have been doing this for a number of
years. Of course, the policy needs to be
revisited and evaluated in terms of suc-
cess, but I do think it is an important
one: moving the immigration debate
off the 1-yard line and working with
creative and imaginative foreign policy
engagement with the countries in the
Northern Triangle of Guatemala, Hon-
duras, and El Salvador. In that way, to
help those countries build more just
and humane systems both economi-
cally and politically, to create the con-
ditions for stability, decreases the in-
tensity of need for out-migration for
either economic purposes or fleeing
criminal activity.
Now, immigration can seem remote
and abstract for many of us, but it is
important to remember that it has a
human face, and I am very proud that
we are doing two things at once here.
We are, of course, debating the impor-
tance of immigration policy and poten-
tial changes, but also assisting many
people who have gotten tangled in im-
migration difficulties back home.
Madam Speaker, I think there are
certain things in this House that tran-
scend disagreement, and one of them is
our veterans. Americans often sense
what is right and good, and we instinc-
tively recognize the nobility of self-
sacrifice for another, for our country,
and for our timeless ideals, and our
veterans stand above the division and
discord—beyond politics—to what is
lasting and true.
But beyond our applause and admira-
tion, we are also duty-bound in this
body to keep our promise to care for
them. So, this past year, we did some
important things.
Back at home, we are in the process,
after some long negotiations, of cre-
ating a new state-of-the-art VA facility
in Lincoln, on the historic veterans’
campus there. This is a victory. This is
a significant victory for economic re-
generation of a unique historic prop-
erty, and it arrives on the heels of a
very successful public-private partner-
ship to expand and improve and inno-
vate the Omaha VA Medical Center. I
am so proud that Nebraska continues
to inspire the Nation with creative
partnerships to assist our veterans.
Now, here in Congress, we passed a
law called the VA Maintaining Sys-
tems and Strengthening Integrated
Outside Networks, the acronym is the
MISSION Act. It was signed into law,
and it brought the long-needed reforms
in the last Congress to the VA system.
It provides a replacement for the VA
Choice program and consolidates com-
munity care programs for veterans who
live far from a VA center or experience
long wait times for care.
This is going to assist many of our
veterans in rural communities and help
them receive the quality of care that
they deserve in a reasonable amount of
time. This act also expanded the vet-
eran caregiver program, making more
pre-9/11 veterans and their families eli-
gible for assistance.
Now, another bipartisan project that
I hope we can pursue shortly, and we
have been in dialogue in a bipartisan
manner on this, is to work with the
international community to create a
historic center at the site of our D-day
battles in Normandy. A new institute
that is being envisioned by some Euro-
pean colleagues could reestablish, for
the 21st century, a renewed under-
standing of the pivotal battle that hap-
pened on D-day, its consequences for
the war, and the institutions that
emerged afterward that have created
the conditions for stability and pros-
perity, many of which are aging and
need to be updated and challenged.
The United States cannot pull the
world’s weight alone. We need to be in
authentic partnership and in authentic
dialogue when we have differences, but
in partnership with those who have
been given the capacity by our sac-
rifice, both militarily and economi-
cally, to advance their own economies
and build out systems of governance.
Again, the 21st century architecture
of international diplomacy is going to
revolve around that central idea: au-
thentic partnerships based on the phil-
osophical principle of human dignity
that lead to burden sharing and vision
sharing at the same time.
Madam Speaker, I had an interesting
thing happen this summer. I wasn’t at
home, and I regret that I wasn’t there
to receive him, but he stopped in my
office. World War II veteran Sidney
Walton stopped by, and he has a really
fascinating story.
You see, he told my staff and some of
the young people there, the interns, he
has a deep regret that when he was
young, he never really took the time to
visit with the last few remaining Civil
War veterans. So he has taken it upon
himself; he has embarked on a national
No Regrets Tour, and his goal is to
visit all 50 States and give young
Americans a chance to meet a World
War II veteran.
Again, his name is Sidney Walton.
We were honored to have him in Ne-
braska, and he will finish his tour at
the White House, as I understand it,
this February, on his 100th birthday.
Thank you, Sidney. Great, great ef-
fort.
Madam Speaker, let me also touch
upon another area that is so essential
to our well-being, our sense of being
able to fulfill these deepest longings
that we have, our healthy sense of am-
bition for ourselves and for our family.
A lot of times around here we cite
economic data, have a bunch of charts
that show statistics. We do a lot of
that around here. It doesn’t really con-
vey, I think, the deeper dynamics of
what is happening. But let me go into
it just for a bit and talk about the posi-
tive outcomes that have occurred.
This year, we have seen more jobs,
increased wages, and reinvestment in
equipment, plants, and research and
development. Our gross domestic prod-
uct, one of the measures of the econ-
omy, is climbing, and median house-
hold income is rising. Unemployment
is at a 50-year low, and many people
who have been marginalized or on the
sidelines, thankfully, have found ac-
cess to meaningful work.
And if we think about a holistic ap-
proach to helping our neighbor, work is
dignity. When a person is able to use
their gifts and talents, either their two
hands or their intellect, to make
things, they are not only providing for
their own well-being, but they are in
solidarity with the community. This
benefit of exchange goes beyond just
material. It creates the value of rela-
tionships. That is the beauty and dig-
nity of work.
And when people are sidelined, when
entire communities have been deci-
mated through poor planning or poor
policies or become overdependent upon
one industry that decides it is going to
pick up and leave—and we have seen
that happen over and over in Amer-
ica—it is not fair to people; it is not
fair to communities.
But when we can see a return of en-
trepreneurial momentum, especially in
small business—and again, people who
have had real difficulty, for whatever
reason, finding access to meaningful
work restores individuals’ vitality, of
course, helps them to help themselves
and creates solidarity and community.
That is what, when we go into all these
charts and graphs and economic fig-
ures, we really ought to be talking
about, what I just said: the dignity and
beauty and meaning of work, the gift
of work, the ability to create the con-
ditions necessary for societal flour-
ishing.
b 1815
So last year, we passed an important,
what was called Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.084 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H354 January 9, 2019
and we are seeing this enhanced eco-
nomic growth and more take-home pay
for families.
In addition to those important bene-
fits, there is another little-known pro-
vision in here that I want to touch on
for a moment, and it is called Oppor-
tunity Zones. It provides powerful tax
incentives to encourage revitalization
of some of the newest, most economi-
cally distressed areas of the country. It
has been overlooked in terms of our un-
derstanding of that law.
This investment opportunity will fos-
ter job regeneration and make better
use of taxpayer dollars already spent,
and it forges stronger communities.
Madam Speaker, I used to be on our
city council back home, and most of
city council works is public works.
When you see an area that is no longer
functioning well, it is not just a blight
on the community; it is not just that
buildings are run down. We already
made an investment there. We already
paid for streets. We already paid for
streetlights. We already paid for utili-
ties, and they are being underutilized.
That minimizes the return on an in-
vestment already made.
We also have to provide police and
fire protection for these areas. Again,
those are real costs to the taxpayer.
They are not on an accounting balance
sheet, but they are real costs. It is
called opportunity cost and underuti-
lized investment. It is already there.
So this idea of regenerating places
across America that have the infra-
structure already creates the condi-
tions in which we get a better return
on the tax dollar for money already
spent. We are not chewing up addi-
tional land and resources. We are recy-
cling, regenerating, rethinking possi-
bility in some of the hardest hit areas
of our country.
I am excited. In my own congres-
sional district, there are 14 of these Op-
portunity Zones that have been des-
ignated.
Now, here are some hard realities,
and I should point them out because
they are real. Let’s just be honest.
Our deficit is high, and it is stub-
bornly high, and there are real dispari-
ties between those at the top and those
who struggle to make a living.
And while we hear policymakers tend
to take too much credit for economic
booms and too little blame for the
crashes, most analysts do conclude
that the actions taken by Congress
over the last year have improved our
economic outlook—again, a good ac-
complishment.
We got the farm bill done. We got the
right type of tax reform done. We
strengthened our military, and we are
looking forward to the debates around
where we go as a nation now.
Something that continues to be dif-
ficult for all of us, though, is the right
type of healthcare reform. And I am
going to venture out here and say that
I would assume that everybody in this
body holds to these same three prin-
ciples. I don’t mean to speak for any-
one else, but this is what I believe. I
think we ought to be striving for three
things in the right type of healthcare
reform: lower cost, improved well-
being, and the protection of vulnerable
persons.
So let’s just start there. Let’s not
create another proxy fight over the Af-
fordable Care Act. Let’s just start
there.
How do we get to lower cost, particu-
larly for people in rural communities
who are priced out of the individual
market and have incomes that they
don’t get a subsidy?
Some of the farmers in my commu-
nity are paying as high as $40,000 for
healthcare. You can’t do it unless you
are very wealthy.
So what happens? A member of the
family has to leave and go get a job in
order to get the benefit. We don’t even
know how to calculate the economic
lost potential of forcing somebody to
go do a job they don’t want to do sim-
ply to get health insurance. We don’t
even know how to calculate that.
So I proposed something in the farm
bill. Unfortunately, the Senate didn’t
take it up, but it is the Rural Health
Insurance Act, which would have sub-
sidized the startup of new risk pools to
provide for better health insurance op-
tions in areas of rural communities,
primarily, where this market has been
decimated, where people have had to
change the way they reorder their eco-
nomic lives in order to have some ac-
cess to health insurance. I thought it
was a good idea.
The startup costs for risk pool shar-
ing, the sharing burden that is nec-
essary to create an insurance product
for smaller businesses, are high, so I
wanted to provide, just like we do in
markets that don’t function effi-
ciently, like crop insurance, a subsidy
that would help the startup of these
new risk pools in order to give more
competition to the health insurance
market in rural communities. That is
one idea I had. We didn’t get it all the
way through, but I am glad it passed
the House.
I look forward to working with col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
again who are looking toward those
three goals. How do we think cre-
atively and imaginatively about reduc-
ing costs, improving well-being?
We are right around the corner from
amazing breakthroughs in innovation
and technology in both managing and
preventing and curing disease, and we
have significantly increased our fund-
ing on a bipartisan basis for the Na-
tional Institutes of Health for disease
research.
So we have done a number of things
that are important for the American
people. Of course, it tends to get over-
shadowed by some of the more philo-
sophical fights that have occurred, but
I would ask my colleagues, let’s em-
brace the concept that we might be
able to find some policies that every-
body could potentially agree on around
three goals: reducing cost, improving
well-being, and protecting vulnerable
persons. I think that is pretty reason-
able.
There is another idea out there that
I will be introducing this year. I al-
ready have a cosponsor from the other
side of the aisle. Here is the problem:
For 3 years in a row now, America’s
life expectancy has declined. We are
consuming more healthcare and dying
younger. Rates of asthma and diabetes
have skyrocketed in some populations,
and it is really hard to see whether or
not we are making progress on certain
preventable illnesses. We can do better
than that. That is not a necessary con-
dition that we have to settle on.
So, to start an effective new con-
versation, I am introducing the Com-
munity Health Improvement Leader-
ship and Development Act. It is called
the CHILD Act. My cosponsor is from a
large urban area, and this allows com-
munities across America to fully par-
ticipate in improving their own health.
How does it work? When community
members find an innovative way to im-
prove health and save money in their
State Medicaid program, the legisla-
tion allows the verified savings to be
shared back to that very community
and State. It is a virtual cycle of assur-
ing access to care and more creative
prevention. I like it. It is a win-win for
taxpayers and people in communities
and towns across Nebraska and Amer-
ica.
As we go on, I hope this is one of
those ideas that fits into the three sets
of principles as to how we are going to
reduce cost, improve outcomes, and
protect vulnerable persons.
Madam Speaker, I know our time is
getting ready to run short, and can you
give me an idea of how much time is
left.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Nebraska has 7 minutes
remaining.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Madam Speak-
er, I want to introduce a new topic in
the time that we have remaining, again
speaking to that which might be able
to unite us in a very divided time, that
which is a fundamental principle that
is operative in most of our hearts, that
which, again, transcends these tem-
porary and urgent moments of policy
division. It is what I call natural secu-
rity.
We talked about national security.
We talked about economic security. We
talked about human dignity, family se-
curity. Now I want to talk about nat-
ural security, and here is an example.
Nebraska is one of the only States
where you can find three distinct sub-
species of the turkey.
Madam Speaker, are you with me on
this? It is really very fascinating.
In the southeast corner of Nebraska,
you can find the Eastern turkey. In the
southwest corner, you can see a Rio,
and out west, you can find a Merriam.
This unique trifecta exists right there
in my home.
Now, why am I raising this? Why
would you be raising this? Of course, I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.086 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H355
January 9, 2019
find it interesting, and I hope you do as
well, Madam Speaker.
This newfound abundance of turkeys
is an amazing story because, due to
urban pressures and habitat loss and
improperly regulated hunting, not too
long ago, wild turkeys were in decline
across the Nation. But they have since
rebounded through basic conservation
efforts.
With innovative thinking and
proactive policy, we can conserve and
restore other wildlife and natural habi-
tats, while bringing social, cultural,
and economic multipliers to our rural
communities.
Nebraska has been at the forefront of
such conservation efforts, and we will
continue to lead this charge at home as
well as here, so I have introduced the
Recovering America’s Wildlife Act.
Now, Madam Speaker, we weren’t
able to get it through Congress last
year, but I think by the end of the ses-
sion, we had 120—it was probably a lit-
tle bit higher—bipartisan cosponsors.
So what does it do? It takes an up-
stream approach to habitat protection
through robust funding of State wild-
life action plans so that we don’t have
the downstream effect of habitat loss.
In Nebraska, we do this through means
of voluntary landowner agreements.
This is why this is important. As we
approach the renewal of the Endan-
gered Species Act, RAWA, the Recov-
ering America’s Wildlife Act, actually
gets in front of the problem by pre-
venting wildlife from becoming endan-
gered in the first place, and it moves us
from costly regulation and litigation
to collaboration.
I am very excited about this because
I think it is another way in which we
can use moneys from lands in Federal
trust and plow it back into another
form of trust that creates a widespread
benefit for those interested in environ-
mental policy, those interested in con-
servation policy, and those interested
in enhanced recreational sporting and
hunting opportunity.
That is why so many people have got-
ten on this bill. It transcends our di-
vide. It is a creative mechanism by
which we use certain moneys that are
already being gathered into the Treas-
ury and apply them in innovative and
creative ways.
Madam Speaker, I, again, am grate-
ful for the opportunity to have had
time to present to this body an over-
view of last year’s work. It is impor-
tant because, ultimately, it is not just
about policy; it is about persons.
A woman named Mary came into my
office this past year, and she was with
two men who had made their living as
truckers. Their pensions were in dan-
ger. Mary just began to tear up as she
explained the dire circumstances in
which they found themselves, because
multiemployer pension plans—this is a
little bit in the weeds, but multiem-
ployer pension plans, some are in dire
condition.
So what does that mean? Somebody
who said, ‘‘I am going to work for this
set of benefits and, in turn, I am going
to be guaranteed an income of this
level in my older years,’’ all of that
promise, all that work and those prom-
ises are now under real threat.
So, again, working in a bipartisan
fashion, that is an area which is in se-
vere need that we worked to try to fix
last year and will do so again, working
with colleagues on both sides of the
aisle.
Madam Speaker, my intention to-
night was to give an overview of the
last year because so often, again, in the
dynamics of the moment, we lose sight
of the good things that were accom-
plished for our economic security, for
our national security, for family secu-
rity, for the well-being of our land and
water. By taking a little bit of a look
back, maybe this gives us some pros-
pect for unity, consensus, while fight-
ing on principle, but unity and con-
sensus for good.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Madam Speak-
er, I move that the House do now ad-
journ.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 6 o’clock and 29 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, January 10, 2019, at 10 a.m.
for morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
17. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-518, ‘‘Bruce Robey Court Designation
Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
18. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-533, ‘‘Clarification of Hospital Closure
Procedure Temporary Amendment Act of
2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
19. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-546, ‘‘Revised Transfer of Jurisdiction
over U.S. Reservation 724 (Lots 896 and 897
within Square 620) and Extinguishment of
Covenants Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
20. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-532, ‘‘Prevention of Child Abuse and
Neglect Temporary Amendment Act of 2018’’,
pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1);
(87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
21. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-519, ‘‘Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Support
Clarification Temporary Amendment Act of
2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
22. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-545, ‘‘Relocation of a Passageway
Easement in Square 696 Authorization Act of
2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
23. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-544, ‘‘Approval of the Starpower Com-
munications Open Video System Franchise
Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
24. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-503, ‘‘Revised Synthetics Abatement
and Full Enforcement Drug Control Tem-
porary Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
25. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-542, ‘‘Parcel 42 Surplus Property Dec-
laration and Disposition Approval Act of
2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
26. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-541, ‘‘Boxing and Wrestling Commis-
sion Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
27. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-502, ‘‘Parent-led Play Cooperative
Temporary Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursu-
ant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
28. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-540, ‘‘Vulnerable Population and Em-
ployer Protection Amendment Act of 2018’’,
pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1);
(87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
29. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-547, ‘‘Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Support
Clarification Amendment Act of 2018’’, pur-
suant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
30. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-499, ‘‘Access to Public Benefits Tem-
porary Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
31. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-517, ‘‘Service Contract Regulation Act
of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
32. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-516, ‘‘Teachers, Police, and Fire-
fighters Retirement Benefits Amendment
Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
33. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-515, ‘‘Trafficking Survivors Relief
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
34. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-505, ‘‘At-Risk Tenant Protection
Clarifying Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursu-
ant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JA7.087 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H356 January 9, 2019
35. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-478, ‘‘Neighborhood Safety and En-
gagement Fund Temporary Amendment Act
of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
36. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-514, ‘‘Interstate Insurance Product
Regulation Compact Act of 2018’’, pursuant
to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
37. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-513, ‘‘Save Good Food Amendment Act
of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
38. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-504, ‘‘Elections Modernization Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law
93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
39. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-511, ‘‘Ensuring Community Access to
Recreational Spaces Act of 2018’’, pursuant
to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
40. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-508, ‘‘Extension of Time to Dispose of
8th & O Streets, N.W., Amendment Act of
2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
41. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-501, ‘‘Rental Housing Affordability
Re-establishment Amendment Act of 2018’’,
pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1);
(87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
42. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-500, ‘‘Advisory Neighborhood Commis-
sions Debit Cards Amendment Act of 2018’’,
pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1);
(87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
43. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-507, ‘‘Rebate Reform Amendment Act
of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
44. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-506, ‘‘Access to Treatment for Ana-
phylaxis Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
45. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-492, ‘‘Rental Housing Commission
Independence Clarification Amendment Act
of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
46. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-539, ‘‘Daytime School Parking Zone
Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
47. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-538, ‘‘Leaf Blower Regulation Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law
93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
48. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-537, ‘‘Omnibus Department of For-
Hire Vehicles Amendment Act of 2018’’, pur-
suant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
49. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-536, ‘‘Vacancy Increase Reform
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
50. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-535, ‘‘Closing of a Public Alley in
Square 653, S.O. 15-26384, Act of 2018’’, pursu-
ant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
51. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting DC
Act 22-534, ‘‘Salary Adjustment Amendment
Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
52. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-512, ‘‘Pathways to District Govern-
ment Careers Amendment Act of 2018’’, pur-
suant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for
himself, Ms. MOORE, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
CLYBURN, Mr. RICHMOND, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. VEASEY, Mrs. MCBATH,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. GREEN
of Texas, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr.
HORSFORD, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
EVANS, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
ADAMS, Ms. WATERS, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms. WILSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. RUSH, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Ms. LEE of California, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. FUDGE, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
PAYNE, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mrs. HAYES, and
Ms. UNDERWOOD):
H.R. 356. A bill to establish the Medgar
Evers Home National Monument in the State
of Mississippi, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Ms.
MATSUI, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
MCNERNEY, and Mr. THOMPSON of
California):
H.R. 357. A bill to establish the Sac-
ramento-San Joaquin Delta National Herit-
age Area; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. VARGAS:
H.R. 358. A bill to direct the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency to
establish a California New River restoration
program to build on, and help coordinate
funding for, restoration and protection ef-
forts relating to the New River, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCNERNEY (for himself and
Mr. LATTA):
H.R. 359. A bill to provide for certain pro-
grams and developments in the Department
of Energy concerning the cybersecurity and
vulnerabilities of, and physical threats to,
the electric grid, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. LATTA (for himself and Mr.
MCNERNEY):
H.R. 360. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish a voluntary Cyber Sense
program to test the cybersecurity of prod-
ucts and technologies intended for use in the
bulk-power system, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. CHABOT,
and Mr. SUOZZI):
H.R. 361. A bill to impose terrorism-related
sanctions with respect to As-Saib Ahl Al-Haq
and Harakat Hizballah Al-Nujaba, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Mr. RUSH (for himself and Mr.
WALBERG):
H.R. 362. A bill to amend the Department
of Energy Organization Act with respect to
functions assigned to Assistant Secretaries,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. CALVERT:
H.R. 363. A bill to amend the National En-
vironmental Policy Act of 1969 to authorize
assignment to States of Federal agency envi-
ronmental review responsibilities, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. CALVERT:
H.R. 364. A bill to provide for additional se-
curity requirements for Syrian and Iraqi ref-
ugees, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, and Mr.
GARAMENDI):
H.R. 365. A bill to prohibit the construction
of new border barriers, including walls or
fences, on certain Federal land, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity.
By Mr. RUSH (for himself, Ms. CLARKE
of New York, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Ms. LEE of California, Ms. ADAMS,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. EVANS, Ms. FUDGE, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
CLAY, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois,
Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. CLY-
BURN, Mr. RICHMOND, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr.
HORSFORD, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms.
PLASKETT, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama,
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, and Ms. BASS):
H.R. 366. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to eliminate
cost sharing with respect to coverage of in-
sulin as a covered part D drug under the
Medicare program or as a covered outpatient
drug under the Medicaid program; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself, Mr.
MAST, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
and Mr. GARAMENDI):
H.R. 367. A bill making appropriations for
Coast Guard pay in the event an appropria-
tions Act expires before the enactment of a
new appropriations Act; to the Committee
on Appropriations, and in addition to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L09JA7.000 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H357
January 9, 2019
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 368. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to conduct a special resource
study of the George W. Bush Childhood
Home, located at 1412 West Ohio Avenue,
Midland, Texas, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mrs. HARTZLER (for herself, Mr.
DUNCAN, Mr. YOHO, Mr. PALMER, Mr.
JONES, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. FERGUSON,
Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr. MASSIE, Mr.
SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. MARSHALL,
Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. MULLIN, Mr.
CHABOT, Mr. WEBSTER of Florida, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. KELLY of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. DUFFY,
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
ABRAHAM, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr.
HILL of Arkansas, Mr. PALAZZO, Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr.
BANKS, Mr. BIGGS, Mr. BYRNE, Mr.
BERGMAN, Mr. BOST, Mr. LAMBORN,
Mr. LATTA, Mr. WILSON of South
Carolina, Mr. ESTES, Mr. HICE of
Georgia, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. CLOUD,
Mr. POSEY, Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr. WALK-
ER, Mr. STEWART, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr.
LUETKEMEYER, Mr. BARR, Mr. RUTH-
ERFORD, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee, Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. MITCH-
ELL, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. LAMALFA,
Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. COLLINS of Geor-
gia, Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr.
ROUZER, Mr. BUCK, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
GOHMERT, Ms. CHENEY, Mr. KUSTOFF
of Tennessee, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr.
EMMER, Mr. HUNTER, Mr. WENSTRUP,
Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. HUDSON, Mr.
SMUCKER, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. FLORES,
Mr. BRADY, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. SCALISE,
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
WATKINS, Mr. OLSON, Mr. BABIN, Mrs.
LESKO, Mr. WRIGHT, and Mr.
HAGEDORN):
H.R. 369. A bill to provide for a moratorium
on Federal funding to Planned Parenthood
Federation of America, Inc; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. UPTON (for himself and Mr.
LOEBSACK):
H.R. 370. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to carry out a program relating to
physical security and cybersecurity for pipe-
lines and liquefied natural gas facilities; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 371. A bill making appropriations for
certain Federal employees working during
the Government shutdown beginning on or
about December 22, 2018, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Appropriations.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for
herself, Ms. NORTON, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. VELA,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. SOTO, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. BEYER, Ms. PINGREE,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Ms. ESHOO, Mr. RUSH, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr.
MOULTON, and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD):
H.R. 372. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
provide for the eligibility of Transportation
Security Administration employees to re-
ceive public safety officers’ death benefits,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 373. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for certain
administrative or judicial review respecting
the identification of primary care practi-
tioners under part B of the Medicare pro-
gram; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. BYRNE:
H.R. 374. A bill to make continuing appro-
priations for Coast Guard pay in the event
that appropriations for Coast Guard pay in
fiscal year 2019 expire and a new appropria-
tions Act has not been enacted; to the Com-
mittee on Appropriations.
By Mr. COLE (for himself and Ms.
MCCOLLUM):
H.R. 375. A bill to amend the Act of June
18, 1934, to reaffirm the authority of the Sec-
retary of the Interior to take land into trust
for Indian Tribes, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. COOK (for himself, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mr. VARGAS, and Mr. RUIZ):
H.R. 376. A bill to provide for conservation,
enhanced recreation opportunities, and de-
velopment of renewable energy in the Cali-
fornia Desert Conservation Area, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. DIAZ-BALART (for himself,
Mr. ZELDIN, Ms. MENG, Mr. ROONEY of
Florida, and Mrs. DEMINGS):
H.R. 377. A bill to establish new ZIP codes
for certain communities, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 378. A bill to amend the Help America
Vote Act of 2002 to require voting systems
used in elections for Federal office to
produce a voter-verified, auditable paper
record of the votes cast in such elections, to
require State election officials to audit the
results of such elections prior to certifying
the results, to provide grants to States to
improve voting system security, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on House
Administration, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GIBBS (for himself and Mr.
GIANFORTE):
H.R. 379. A bill to limit the authority of a
State to require remote sellers to collect
taxes and fees owed by purchasers then lo-
cated in such State incident to their pur-
chases of goods and services from such sell-
ers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. GROTHMAN (for himself and
Mr. POCAN):
H.R. 380. A bill to amend the Federal
Power Act to require the consideration of
invasive species when prescribing fishways,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. JEFFRIES (for himself and Mr.
CHABOT):
H.R. 381. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Agriculture and the Administrator of Gen-
eral Services to modernize terms in certain
regulations; to the Committee on Natural
Resources, and in addition to the Committee
on Agriculture, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 382. A bill to provide for the convey-
ance of the Custer County Airport, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio (for himself, Mr.
TURNER, Mr. KATKO, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Ohio, and Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER):
H.R. 383. A bill to amend the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act to ensure
that preexisting condition exclusions with
respect to enrollment in health insurance
coverage and group health plans continue to
be prohibited; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mr. JONES, Mr. GOSAR, Mr.
DUNCAN, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. HIGGINS of
Louisiana, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr.
HICE of Georgia, Mr. HUDSON, Mr.
BACON, Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, and
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi):
H.R. 384. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to increase the penalties
applicable to aliens who unlawfully reenter
the United States after being removed; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KING of Iowa (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr.
BABIN, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr. HIG-
GINS of Louisiana, Mr. FORTENBERRY,
Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio,
Mr. HUDSON, Mr. BACON, Mr. BROOKS
of Alabama, Mr. KELLY of Mis-
sissippi, and Mr. GOHMERT):
H.R. 385. A bill to require U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement to take into
custody certain aliens who have been
charged in the United States with a crime
that resulted in the death or serious bodily
injury of another person, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LAMBORN (for himself, Mr.
NEGUSE, and Mr. TIPTON):
H.R. 386. A bill to update the map of, and
modify the maximum acreage available for
inclusion in, the Florissant Fossil Beds Na-
tional Monument; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. LAMBORN (for himself, Mr.
NEGUSE, and Mr. TIPTON):
H.R. 387. A bill to authorize, direct, expe-
dite, and facilitate a land exchange in El
Paso and Teller Counties, Colorado, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself, Mr.
TIPTON, and Mr. EMMER):
H.R. 388. A bill to update thresholds for
certain currency transaction reports and
suspicious activity reports, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. COHEN,
and Mr. BUDD):
H.R. 389. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Treasury to pay rewards under an
asset recovery rewards program to help iden-
tify and recover stolen assets linked to for-
eign government corruption and the proceeds
of such corruption hidden behind complex fi-
nancial structures in the United States and
abroad; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr.
CHABOT, Mr. KEATING, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, and Mr. MCGOVERN):
H.R. 390. A bill to establish the Adams Me-
morial Commission to carry out the provi-
sions of Public Law 107-62, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. LYNCH (for himself and Mr.
CUMMINGS):
H.R. 391. A bill to provide transparency re-
garding waivers granted to individuals from
the ethics requirements of Executive Order
13770 or any subsequent similar order, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. LYNCH (for himself and Mr.
KING of New York):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L09JA7.100 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H358 January 9, 2019
H.R. 392. A bill to require the disclosure of
beneficial ownership by a foreign person of
high-security space leased to accommodate a
Federal agency, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York, and
Mr. KING of New York):
H.R. 393. A bill to require the disclosure of
beneficial ownership by a foreign person of
aircraft registration, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure.
By Ms. MENG (for herself and Mr.
COHEN):
H.R. 394. A bill to protect, improve, and
modernize the act of voting; to the Com-
mittee on House Administration, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Rules, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MULLIN (for himself, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. COLE,
and Mr. LUCAS):
H.R. 395. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to require agencies to respond
to comments from congressional committees
about proposed rulemaking, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. MULLIN:
H.R. 396. A bill to provide for the equitable
settlement of certain Indian land disputes
regarding land in Illinois, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. NEAL (for himself, Mr. KING of
New York, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
YOUNG, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. SMITH of
New Jersey, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr.
KATKO, Ms. KAPTUR, and Mr. FORTEN-
BERRY):
H.R. 397. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to create a Pension Reha-
bilitation Trust Fund, to establish a Pension
Rehabilitation Administration within the
Department of the Treasury to make loans
to multiemployer defined benefit plans, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor, and in addition to the
Committees on Ways and Means, and Appro-
priations, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself and
Mr. MCKINLEY):
H.R. 398. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish a pilot competitive grant
program for the development of a skilled en-
ergy workforce, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself and
Mr. MCKINLEY):
H.R. 399. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Labor to support the development of pre-ap-
prenticeship programs in the building and
construction trades that serve underrep-
resented populations, including individuals
from low income and rural census tracts; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H.R. 400. A bill to amend title 39 of the
United States Code to direct the Postal Reg-
ulatory Commission to promulgate regula-
tions to establish rates of postage for pack-
ages shipped by priority mail from the
United States to a foreign Army Post Office,
Fleet Post Office, or Diplomatic Post Office;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 401. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Agriculture to release reversionary and re-
served interests in certain lands within the
Coconino National Forest, Arizona; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 402. A bill to provide for the
unencumbering of title to non-Federal land
owned by Win Oil Company, Incorporated,
for purposes of economic development by re-
moving the Federal reversion interest in
that land, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 403. A bill to establish the Clear Creek
National Recreation Area in San Benito and
Fresno Counties, California, to designate the
Joaquin Rocks Wilderness in such counties,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 404. A bill to establish a program that
enables college-bound residents of outlying
areas of the United States to have greater
choices among institutions of higher edu-
cation, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 405. A bill to permit the District of
Columbia and each of the territories of the
United States to provide and furnish statues
honoring their citizens for placement in
Statuary Hall in the same manner as statues
honoring citizens of the States are provided
for placement in Statuary Hall; to the Com-
mittee on House Administration.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 406. A bill to amend title 1, United
States Code, to provide for a definition of the
term ‘‘State’’ and to include territories
therein, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 407. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to establish the Virgin
Islands visa waiver program; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 408. A bill to require the Comptroller
General of the United States to submit a re-
port to Congress regarding the pension sys-
tem of the United States Virgin Islands; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 409. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the limitation on
the cover over of distilled spirits taxes to the
Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 410. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide reimbursement
for possessions of the United States with re-
spect to the earned income tax credit and
the child tax credit; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 411. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the source rules
to provide for economic recovery in the pos-
sessions of the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 412. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the residence and
source rules to provide for economic recov-
ery in the possessions of the United States;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 413. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow the work oppor-
tunity credit to small businesses which hire
individuals who are members of the Ready
Reserve or National Guard, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 414. A bill to amend the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act to include algal blooms in the
definition of a major disaster, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. ROSE of New York:
H.R. 415. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to grant to States and local
governments easements and rights-of-way
over Federal land within Gateway National
Recreation Area for construction, operation,
and maintenance of projects for control and
prevention of flooding and shoreline erosion;
to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for him-
self, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
BISHOP of Utah, Mr. GIBBS, and Mr.
HICE of Georgia):
H.R. 416. A bill to amend section 524(c) of
title 18, United States Code, to use lawfully
forfeited drug seizures to increase border se-
curity; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SOTO (for himself, Mr. GAETZ,
and Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico):
H.R. 417. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to establish measures to com-
bat invasive lionfish, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in
addition to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. STEWART:
H.R. 418. A bill to authorize the State of
Utah to select certain lands that are avail-
able for disposal under the Pony Express Re-
source Management Plan to be used for the
support and benefit of State institutions,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 419. A bill to make continuing appro-
priations for the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration for fiscal year 2019; to the Committee
on Appropriations.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 420. A bill to provide for the regula-
tion of marijuana products, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, and in addition to the Committees on
Energy and Commerce, Ways and Means,
Natural Resources, and Agriculture, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. WILD (for herself, Ms. DEAN,
Ms. DELBENE, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
JONES, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. ROSE of New
York, Ms. SCANLON, Mr. SCHRADER,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. WITTMAN, and Mr. LAR-
SEN of Washington):
H.R. 421. A bill making continuing appro-
priations for the Coast Guard; to the Com-
mittee on Appropriations.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 422. A bill to prevent catastrophic
failure or shutdown of remote diesel power
engines due to emission control devices, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Ms. MENG (for herself and Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY):
H.J. Res. 23. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States extending the right to vote to
citizens sixteen years of age or older; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.J. Res. 24. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States regarding Presidential elec-
tion voting rights for residents of all United
States territories and commonwealths; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L09JA7.100 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H359
January 9, 2019
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H. Res. 31. A resolution electing Members
to certain standing committees of the House
of Representatives; considered and agreed to.
considered and agreed to.
By Ms. CHENEY:
H. Res. 32. A resolution electing Members
to certain standing committees of the House
of Representatives; considered and agreed to.
considered and agreed to.
By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. ROD-
NEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. YOUNG, Mr.
COOK, Mr. MAST, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Mrs. MURPHY, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Mr. CONNOLLY, and Mrs. DAVIS of
California):
H. Res. 33. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
Congress should take all appropriate meas-
ures to ensure that the United States Postal
Service remains an independent establish-
ment of the Federal Government and is not
subject to privatization; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H. Res. 34. A resolution expressing support
for designation of the first Saturday in Octo-
ber as ‘‘National Animal Rescue Day’’ to cre-
ate awareness of the importance of adoption
and to educate on the importance of spaying
and neutering animals and the encourage-
ment of animal adoptions throughout the
United States; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Ms. BROWNLEY of California intro-
duced a bill (H.R. 423) for the relief of
Robert Feiss; which was referred to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
H.R. 356.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 357.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. VARGAS:
H.R. 358.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18:
The Congress shall havePower to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by the Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3:
The Congress shall have Power to regulate
Commerce with foreign Nations, and among
the several States, and with the Indian
Tribes.
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.R. 359.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States grants Congress the au-
thority to enact this bill.
By Mr. LATTA:
H.R. 360.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
H.R. 361.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1.
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 362.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution—Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. CALVERT:
H.R. 363.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, specifically clause 18 (relating
to power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress).
By Mr. CALVERT:
H.R. 364.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution relating to the power to
make all laws necessary and proper for car-
rying out the powers vested in Congress.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 365.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8.
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 366.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have power to . . . provide for the
. . . general welfare of the United States
. . .’’;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have power ‘‘To make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof.’’
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 367.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, Clause 3, and
Clause
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 368.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mrs. HARTZLER:
H.R. 369.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8, Clause 1 and Article 1, Section 9, Clause 7
of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. UPTON:
H.R. 370.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: Congress
shall have power to regulate Commerce with
foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes.
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 371.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 372.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 373.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. BYRNE:
H.R. 374.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 & 9
By Mr. COLE:
H.R. 375.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to Article I,
Section 8 which grants Congress the power
to regulate Commerce with the Indian
Tribes.
This bill is enacted pursuant to Article II,
Section 2, Clause 2 in order the enforce trea-
ties made between the United States and
several Indian Tribes.
By Mr. COOK:
H.R. 376.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. DIAZ-BALART:
H.R. 377.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 378.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. GIBBS:
H.R. 379.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8, of clause 3 of the
United States Constitution
By Mr. GROTHMAN:
H.R. 380.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, specifically Clause 1 (related
to the general Welfare of the United States).
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H.R. 381.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 382.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Const. Art. I, § 8.
By Mr. JOYCE of Ohio:
H.R. 383.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
The Congress shall have Power*** To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by the
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Of-
fice thereof.
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power of Congress to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with the Indian
tribes, as enumerated in Article I, Section 8,
Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.R. 384.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L09JA7.100 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H360 January 9, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 4 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. KING of Iowa:
H.R. 385.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 4 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. LAMBORN:
H.R. 386.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. LAMBORN:
H.R. 387.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. LOUDERMILK:
H.R. 388.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution.
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 389.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 section 8 Clause i8 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 390.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 17 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 391.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 392.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 section 8 Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 393.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 section 8 Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 394.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. MULLIN:
H.R. 395.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion states: All legislative powers herein
granted shall be vested in a Congress of the
United States, which shall consist of a Sen-
ate and House of Representatives.
By Mr. MULLIN:
H.R. 396.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article III, Section 1 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. NEAL:
H.R. 397.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to Clause 1 of Section 8 of
Article I and the 16th Amendment to the
U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H.R. 398.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H.R. 399.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H.R. 400.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article Section I, Section 8
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 401.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 402.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following :
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 403.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 404.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 and Article IV, Section
3 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 405.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 406.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 and Article IV, Section
3 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 407.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 and Article IV, Section
3 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 408.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 and Article IV; Section
3 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 409.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 410.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 411.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 412.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.R. 413.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 414.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. ROSE of New York:
H.R. 415.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion, Congress has the power ‘‘to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or any Department or Officer there-
of’’.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
H.R. 416.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 417.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. STEWART:
H.R. 418.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV Section 3 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 419.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 7 of Section 9 of Article I and
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 420.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 and Article I,
Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. WILD:
H.R. 421.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of section 8 of article I of the Con-
stitution.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 422.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 & Article 4,
Section 3, Clause 2
‘‘The Congress shall have power To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
‘‘The Congress shall have Power to dispose
of and make all needful Rules and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory or other Prop-
erty belonging to the United States; and
nothing in this Constitution shall be so con-
strued as to Prejudice any Claims of the
United States, or of any particular State.’’
[Page H2793]
Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 423.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. MENG:
H.J. Res. 23.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Ms. PLASKETT:
H.J. Res. 24.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:24 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.027 H09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H361
January 9, 2019
Article V of the United States Constitu-
tion.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 1: Ms. ADAMS, Mr. ALLRED, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. CASE, Mr. CASTEN of Il-
linois, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Ms. JUDY CHU
of California, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. CISNEROS,
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. COOPER, Mr.
CORREA, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. CRIST, Mr. CROW, Mr.
CUMMINGS, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Ms. DEAN, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms. DEGETTE, Ms.
DELAURO, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. DELGADO, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs.
DINGELL, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. ESHOO,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. EVANS, Mrs. FLETCHER,
Ms. FRANKEL, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr.
GARCIA of Illinois, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. GOMEZ,
Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. HECK, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
HIMES, Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr.
HOYER, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. KEATING, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. KILDEE, Mr. KILMER, Mr. KIM, Mr. KIND,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr. LAMB, Mr.
LANGEVIN, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
LARSON of Connecticut, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Ms. LEE of California,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Mr. LEVIN of California, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Mr. LOEBSACK, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. LYNCH, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Ms. MATSUI,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MENG,
Mr. MORELLE, Mr. MOULTON, Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL, Mr. NADLER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
NEAL, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. NORCROSS, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. OMAR, Mr. PAL-
LONE, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. PETERS, Mr. PHILLIPS,
Ms. PINGREE, Mr. POCAN, Ms. PORTER, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. RASKIN, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr. ROUDA, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. RYAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. SCANLON,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SCHNEIDER,
Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
SERRANO, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Mr. SOTO, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. STANTON, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Ms. TITUS, Ms.
TLAIB, Mr. TONKO, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. TRONE, Ms. UNDERWOOD,
Mr. VARGAS, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. VELA, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. WATERS, Mr. WELCH,
Ms. WILD, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Mr. BERA, Ms. SLOTKIN, Ms. FUDGE,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. RUIZ, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. CLEAVER, Mrs.
MCBATH, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
AGUILAR, Ms. BASS, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. COSTA,
Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. WEXTON, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, and Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 8: Mr. PETERS, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. BONAMICI, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr.
KEATING, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms.
DEAN, Mr. LEVIN of California, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Mr. O’HALLERAN, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. SHALALA, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. OMAR, Ms. WEXTON, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
PANETTA, Mr. CROW, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
LYNCH, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. COURTNEY,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. SHERRILL, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr.
STANTON, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Miss RICE of New York, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr. PHIL-
LIPS, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms. LEE
of California, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
NORCROSS, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr. HIMES, Ms.
SCANLON, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. KILDEE,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr. SIRES, Ms.
WILD, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mrs. LOWEY, Ms.
HOULAHAN, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. MOULTON, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. POCAN, Ms. PINGREE,
Ms. MENG, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. SARBANES, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
DELAURO, Ms. NORTON, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. COOPER, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
GARCIA of Illinois, Mr. VELA, Mr. LIPINSKI,
Mr. EVANS, Mr. RYAN, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
ADAMS, Mr. RICHMOND, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
CORREA, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mrs. MUR-
PHY, Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. TONKO,
Mr. TRONE, Ms. PORTER, Mr. LANGEVIN, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. CRIST, Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. LARSEN
of Washington, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
KILMER, Ms. MATSUI, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. HOYER, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. LOFGREN, Mrs.
HAYES, and Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 25: Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio.
H.R. 38: Mr. LUCAS and Mr. ALLEN.
H.R. 51: Ms. PLASKETT, Ms. PORTER, Mr.
NEGUSE, and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 66: Mr. LUCAS.
H.R. 95: Ms. MOORE, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. COOK, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Mr. PANETTA, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. RYAN, Mr. NEAL, Mr. FOSTER,
Mr. GAETZ, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
MARINO, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. SIRES, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. HIMES, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. JONES, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
HILL of Arkansas, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. KEATING,
Ms. ESHOO, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr.
MAST, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
CALVERT, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mrs. TORRES of California, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas,
Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. LAM-
BORN, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. RUSH, Mr. BARR, Ms. MATSUI,
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mrs. RADEWAGEN,
Mr. COLE, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
Mrs. WALORSKI, and Mr. HECK.
H.R. 96: Mr. SOTO, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. COHEN, Mrs.
MURPHY, Mr. WELCH, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. RYAN, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
NORTON, Mrs. BEATTY, and Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 113: Mr. HICE of Georgia.
H.R. 115: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 138: Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 140: Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 141: Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. GIBBS, Mr.
COHEN, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. LYNCH,
Ms. DELAURO, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. MOULTON,
Mr. POSEY, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. COMER, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. KILMER,
Mr. WELCH, Mr. BURGESS, and Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 197: Mr. JONES.
H.R. 205: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 211: Mr. NORMAN and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 216: Mr. BARR.
H.R. 218: Mr. ALLEN.
H.R. 219: Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. GIBBS, Ms.
FOXX of North Carolina, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
DUFFY, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr. EMMER, Mr.
GOHMERT, Mr. ESTES, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. FOR-
TENBERRY, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
PALMER, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. JONES,
Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. LATTA, Mr.
LAMBORN, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. ALLEN, Mr.
LOUDERMILK, and Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Geor-
gia.
H.R. 220: Mr. COLLINS of New York.
H.R. 221: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. BOST, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr.
KIND, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr.
BURGESS, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. LATTA,
Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. NORMAN, and Mr. BACON.
H.R. 230: Mr. SCHIFF and Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 242: Ms. HAALAND and Mr. LEVIN of
California.
H.R. 249: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 250: Mr. NORMAN and Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 270: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, and Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 296: Mr. BARR, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. GUTH-
RIE, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. WITTMAN,
and Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 299: Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Ms. MOORE, Mr. CASTRO of
Texas, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. MOONEY
of West Virginia, Mr. MULLIN, Mr. KING of
Iowa, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr.
ZELDIN, and Mr. MARINO.
H.R. 301: Mr. BACON, Mr. COLLINS of New
York, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. LAMALFA, and Mr.
BALDERSON.
H.R. 305: Mr. FERGUSON, Mr. LOUDERMILK,
and Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 318: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 337: Ms. ADAMS.
H.R. 339: Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
CLAY, and Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 342: Mr. CLOUD.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Mr. AGUILAR.
H.J. Res. 17: Mr. POCAN.
H.J. Res. 20: Mr. LUCAS and Mr. ALLEN.
H. Res. 14: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mrs. LEE of
Nevada, Mr. HECK, and Mr. O’HALLERAN.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:34 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA7.029 H09JAPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S77
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019 No. 4
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
O God, the might of them that put
their trust in You, save us from the
fatal folly of relying upon our strength
alone.
Help our lawmakers to remember
that You are the only sure refuge and
You desire to do for us more than we
can ask or imagine. Give our Senators
the courage to seek Your truth and the
humility to walk in the light You pro-
vide. May their labors contribute to
America’s strength and influence in
our world as You use them to lift aloft
the light of freedom. As our legislators
labor for Your glory, may they know
that they are part of Your ultimate
plan for our Nation and world.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 47
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk
due for a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the second time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 47) to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar.
f
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, last
night, President Trump delivered his
first address to the Nation from the
Oval Office. In the midst of this partial
government shutdown, the President
offered a reminder of just what is at
stake; that is, the security of our Na-
tion’s southern border.
By now, on day 19 of Senate Demo-
crats’ latest experiment in ‘‘absentee
negotiation,’’ my colleagues are well-
versed in the facts on the ground.
We know Border Patrol agents are
encountering historic levels of illicit
substances like fentanyl and heroin at
our border. We know that last year saw
thousands of attempted border cross-
ings by individuals with criminal
records and literally hundreds more by
known gang members. We understand
the status quo is not enough to keep
our families and communities safe.
Fortunately, we know the solutions
on the table—solutions which the
President has placed at the center of
the national conversation since the
earliest days of his administration—are
actually eminently reasonable.
As one former Border Patrol Chief’s
under President Obama put it just re-
cently, ‘‘If you look in the past, you
don’t have to go too far back into his-
tory . . . bipartisan legislation passed
where they built the wall, or fence, or
physical barrier, or whatever you want
to call it. It’s a wall. It works.’’
That is what the Border Patrol Chief
under President Obama said.
He went on to say:
It is not based on personal political ide-
ology. That’s based on historical data and
facts that could be proven. . . . I cannot
think of a legitimate argument why anyone
would not support the wall as part of the
multi-layered border security issue.
So why are we not listening to the
experts and the people who are doing
this every day, like that Border Patrol
Chief under President Obama?
The experts know what they are
talking about. The facts back them up.
According to CBP, in four border sec-
tors where this administration has al-
ready constructed or improved physical
barriers in the last 2 years—listen to
this—illicit traffic has fallen by 90 per-
cent—90 percent.
Of course, not too long ago, my col-
leagues across the aisle had a com-
pletely different position on this sub-
ject. Before the political winds blew a
different way, before this particular
President was inaugurated, Senate
Democrats did heed the advice of the
men and women who protect our bor-
der.
By very wide bipartisan margins, and
on multiple occasions, the Senate has
cleared literally billions of dollars in
funding for physical barriers along the
southern border.
In 2006, then-Senator Obama said the
Secure Fence Act would provide ‘‘badly
needed funding for better fences and
better security.’’ That is what then-
Senator Obama said in 2006.
In 2009, the current Democratic lead-
er praised as major progress ‘‘630 miles
of border fence’’—fence—‘‘that create a
significant barrier to illegal immigra-
tion.’’ That is what the then-majority
leader said in 2009, who is now the mi-
nority leader.
During the last Presidential election,
former Senator Clinton saw fit to tout
the ‘‘numerous times’’ she voted to
‘‘build a barrier to try and prevent ille-
gal immigrants from coming in.’’ That
is what Hillary Clinton said. ‘‘Numer-
ous times,’’ ‘‘significant barrier,’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:02 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA6.000 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S78 January 9, 2019
‘‘badly needed,’’ that was where lead-
ing Democrats stood.
Today, however, it seems there is a
new party line. The use of physical bar-
riers to preserve the integrity of a sov-
ereign Nation is now, according to the
new Speaker of the House, ‘‘im-
moral’’—‘‘immoral.’’ They went from
‘‘badly needed’’ to ‘‘immoral’’ in little
more than the span of a Presidency.
Talk about a pivot. Talk about a pivot.
My Democratic friends wanted fenc-
ing and physical barriers in the recent
past. Their most prominent leaders ac-
tually bragged about voting for phys-
ical barriers. The only thing that has
changed between then and now is the
occupant of the White House.
Steel fencing was fine, even salutary,
when President Obama was in the
White House, but it is ‘‘immoral’’ when
President Trump occupies the office.
All of a sudden—all of a sudden—
Democrats have developed this new
partisan allergy to the subject of bor-
der security. They are even prolonging
a partial government shutdown just to
avoid getting more of what they them-
selves have voted for in the past.
This inconsistency doesn’t stop with
drawing imaginary lines in the sand be-
tween the border security the Demo-
crats once supported and the virtually
identical measures they have decided
to oppose today. The inconsistency
also extends to the conduct of the Sen-
ate itself during this tantrum.
f
THE MIDDLE EAST
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, yes-
terday evening, Democrats blocked the
Senate from proceeding to important
foreign policy legislation. This bill,
which was blocked last night, included
measures of which they have been out-
spokenly supportive and even cospon-
sored, but then they decided that get-
ting anything done at all this week
would clash with their new political
brand.
To be clear, the legislation I am re-
ferring to would have addressed several
serious challenges to U.S. interests in
the Middle East. It would have re-
affirmed our commitment to the secu-
rity of Israel, our closest regional ally.
It would have reauthorized defense co-
operation with Jordan, a critical part-
ner, and it would have taken a vital
step toward bringing the perpetrators
and the enablers of the Assad regime
atrocities in Syria to justice. Frankly,
it would have delivered on promises to
which my Democratic colleagues ap-
peared to be firmly committed.
In their own words, Senate Demo-
crats have discussed ‘‘the continuation
of America’s unshakeable, seven-dec-
ade commitment to Israel’s security’’
and doing ‘‘everything in our power to
fight the BDS movement,’’ but, alas,
instead of proceeding to this legisla-
tion, Senate Democrats voted to block
it.
My friend the Democratic leader
chose to take this partial government
shutdown that he is prolonging and add
his very own Senate shutdown on top
of it. They want to shut down the Sen-
ate as well—no progress, no bipartisan
work, not even on urgent and pressing
matters, nothing that might take the
spotlight off his unreasonable show-
down with the President.
Just as an example, during the 2013
government shutdown, the Senate kept
right on chugging through the people’s
business. We passed 5 bills, 13 resolu-
tions, appointed conferees on the farm
bill, the budget resolution, and con-
firmed 28 of President Obama’s nomi-
nees. The Senate was not shut down
during the last government shutdown.
This time, the Democrats want to hold
everything hostage—everything?
Here is more inconsistency. Senate
Democrats were for border security, in-
cluding billions for physical barriers,
before they were against it, and they
were for the Senate working hard dur-
ing government shutdowns on other
business before they were against it.
Until our Democratic colleagues
agree to get back to work—until they
agree to get back to work—the Senate
can’t make much progress. Rest as-
sured, Assad has not pressed the pause
button on the Syrian civil war simply
because it doesn’t suit the Democratic
leader’s political strategy this week,
Israel’s enemies haven’t stopped either,
and until Democrats prioritize the pub-
lic interest ahead of political spite, our
border will not be secured, and the Fed-
eral Government will remain partially
closed.
I cannot urge my Democratic col-
leagues more strongly to get past this
purely partisan spite, rediscover their
own past positions on border security,
and negotiate a fair solution with the
President to secure our Nation and re-
open all of the Federal Government.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last
night President Trump tried to con-
vince Congress and the American peo-
ple that there is a crisis at our south-
ern border. It was little more than a re-
hash of spurious arguments and mis-
leading statistics the President has
been using for weeks. President Trump
once again tried to claim there was a
crisis at the border. The fact is, mi-
grant border crossings have been de-
clining for nearly two decades.
The President inveighed against
drugs pouring over the border, but the
vast majority of heroin enters the
United States through legal ports of
entry in trucks and on airplanes.
The President and his allies have
been claiming that nearly 4,000 known
or suspected terrorists have been
stopped from entering the United
States. They say that is a reason for
the border wall. But nearly every sin-
gle one of those apprehensions occurred
in airports, not on our southern border.
In a recent report, Donald Trump’s
State Department concluded that there
is no credible evidence that terrorist
groups were trying to enter the United
States through the southern border. In
a report on the President’s strategy to
combat terrorist travel, sent to Con-
gress by President Trump on December
21—the day the shutdown began—the
National Security Council, appointed
by President Trump, did not even men-
tion a wall or a barrier to stop terror-
ists from entering the country.
The President continues to
fearmonger, and he makes up the facts.
This is a Presidency that is in crisis. It
has so many problems, and it is the old
trick—fearmonger, distort, try to scare
people, and maybe they will not pay at-
tention to the real problems in this ad-
ministration.
In no way, however—the President is
not getting his way. His fearmongering
just isn’t working. In no way did the
President’s speech last night make a
persuasive or even a new case for an ex-
orbitantly expensive border wall—a
wall that the President guaranteed
would be paid by Mexico. He said: I ran
on this. Yes, he ran on it, saying Mex-
ico would pay for it. At his rallies, he
chanted: Who will pay for the wall?
The people screamed back: Mexico.
The President’s speech did nothing—
nothing—to convince us here in Con-
gress, and I believe it did nothing—
nothing—to convince a skeptical public
that this government shutdown is any-
thing but a manufactured crisis of the
President’s own making. The Presi-
dent’s speech, if anything, moved the
American people even further away
from his view that he should keep the
government shut down until he gets his
way. Reports say that the President
didn’t want to give this speech. Well,
he was right. I don’t think it helped his
cause, and he probably hurt himself.
It is time for the President and our
Republican colleagues to stop this
fearmongering and to stop this diver-
sion away from the problems that the
President really has and end the shut-
down. The shutdown is hurting mil-
lions of Americans, and it is going to
get worse, all because of President
Trump’s temper tantrum. We should
not—we should not—treat hundreds of
thousands of Americans—millions of
Americans—as leverage to try and get
something by pounding the table. That
is not how our government works.
What is happening? Hundreds of
thousands of Federal workers—inno-
cent Federal workers who do their jobs,
who work hard, and sometimes they
get up on Monday morning with a 100-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:02 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.002 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S79
January 9, 2019
degree fever, but they go to work be-
cause they know their job is impor-
tant—have been furloughed because of
what Trump has done. Four hundred
thousand continue to work without
pay. TSA agents, food safety inspec-
tors, border agents—those hard-work-
ing, dedicated public servants—are
about to miss a paycheck.
Last night, many of my colleagues—
including Senators WARNER, KAINE,
KING, CARDIN, CASEY, VAN HOLLEN, and
others—held the floor to give voice to
these Federal employees who live and
work in their States, many of whom
are living paycheck to paycheck.
President Trump’s government shut-
down—his choosing, he is the only one
who did it—is forcing a personal crisis
on those public servants and their fam-
ilies. How unfair, how mean-spirited,
and how wrong.
These families are owed a paycheck,
but they are left to wonder how they
are going to pay the mortgage or the
rent and all of their other bills. They
are wondering what will happen to the
good credit they have worked so hard
to maintain over the years. They are
innocent victims of the Trump shut-
down—a shutdown he said 25 times he
would cause, a shutdown he said he
would be proud to own.
President Trump, are you proud to
own a shutdown that is hurting so
many innocent people? Did you realize
that when you caused this?
As government agencies remain shut
down, American farmers and small
businesses can’t get the loans they des-
perately need. Tourism suffers as our
national parks go neglected. Some
families can’t get a mortgage to buy a
new home. The American people are
suffering needlessly—needlessly—be-
cause President Trump selfishly re-
fuses to retreat from an intransigent,
indefensible, and increasingly unpopu-
lar position.
The Democratic House has passed
legislation that received support from
many of my Republican colleagues to
reopen the government. In no way does
that legislation preclude us from hav-
ing a debate and hashing out com-
promise solutions on border security.
We have done that before.
We can continue to debate because,
indeed, Democrats, Republicans, and
the President all want stronger border
security; we just sharply disagree
about the best way of achieving it.
Why not open the government while
we continue to hash out our dif-
ferences? I have asked that of Presi-
dent Trump. I said: Give me one good
reason why the shutdown should con-
tinue as we debate our differences on
border security, which we all want. He
could not give a single reason. We
know the reason: He is leveraging—
mercilessly leveraging—millions of
Americans who are caught in his irre-
sponsible action and who are hurt by
it.
Let us open the government and con-
tinue to hash out our differences. That
would be the responsible thing to do,
and I believe Republican Senators,
many of them, know that.
I urge my friend Leader MCCONNELL
to act now, convince the President to
accept legislation to reopen the gov-
ernment, and let’s pass it here on the
floor of the Senate. The vast majority
of the Republican caucus has already
supported it. What are we waiting for?
f
DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL ROD
ROSENSTEIN
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on an-
other matter, this morning it was re-
ported that Deputy Attorney General
Rosenstein intends to step down from
his post at the Justice Department if
the nominee for Attorney General, Wil-
liam Barr, is confirmed. It is a timely
reminder of the swirling conflicts of in-
terest and bias that surround nearly
every Trump nominee to lead the Jus-
tice Department.
Acting Attorney General Whitaker
publicly and forcefully advocated for
defunding and imposing severe limits
on the special counsel’s investigation,
calling it ‘‘a mere witch hunt.’’ He has
troubling conflicts of interest, includ-
ing with a grand jury witness in the in-
vestigation, not to mention the fact
that he appears to have been involved
in fraudulent business dealings before
joining the Justice Department.
The nominee to take his place, Wil-
liam Barr, is just as fatally conflicted
a nominee when it comes to the special
counsel. Last month, we learned that
Mr. Barr sent the Justice Department
an unsolicited memo, criticizing the
special counsel’s investigation.
Mr. Rosenstein’s potential departure
only heightens the stakes for Mr.
Barr’s nomination. From all accounts,
Mr. Rosenstein has been an impartial
actor at the head of the special coun-
sel’s investigation. President Trump is
trying to replace folks like Mr. Rosen-
stein with conflicted loyalists like
Matthew Whitaker and William Barr.
The Senate, starting with the Judici-
ary Committee, should subject Mr.
Barr’s views to the strictest of scrutiny
next week. I still believe, after the rev-
elations about Mr. Barr’s unsolicited
memo, President Trump ought to with-
draw this nomination.
I yield the floor.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, morning business is
closed.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—Motion to Proceed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the motion to
proceed to S. 1, which the clerk will
now report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1) to make improvements to cer-
tain defense and security assistance provi-
sions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of
the Syrian people, and for other purposes.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I sug-
gest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I think it
is important that we remind ourselves
about what it takes to make a law here
in Washington, DC. It obviously takes
passage of a bill by the House of Rep-
resentatives, passage by the Senate,
and a Presidential signature. Obvi-
ously, we are in the middle of sort of a,
I guess you could say, fight right now
between the executive branch—the
President—and Democrats in the House
and the Senate, which normally would
be resolved by the two sides sitting
down and negotiating and coming to
some sort of an agreement or com-
promise. That, frankly, is what is
going to be necessary to resolve the
current crisis we are in.
The Democrats in the Congress have
the majority in the House. It takes 60
votes, as we know, to do anything in
the Senate, which means it will take
somewhere around the order of 10 Sen-
ate Democrats in order to put a piece
of legislation on the President’s desk.
There has to be a negotiation. There
have to be two sides at the table. The
Democrats have made it very clear in
the Senate and in the House that they
have no interest in negotiating with
the President.
Furthermore, they have determined
that they are going to shut down all
the rest of the business that is being
done in the Senate simply because they
do not want to provide funding for the
border wall that has been requested by
the President. That is the standoff we
are currently in the middle of.
I will remind our colleagues that as
recently as last month, my friend the
Democratic leader said that in order
for us to proceed and vote on anything
in either Chamber, we need to have a
piece of legislation that the President
has said he would agree to sign, which,
again, suggests the way out of this is
for the Democrats to come to the table
and enter into a negotiation with the
President about how to fund the border
wall, how to deal with the issue of bor-
der security, and then to open up the
government. That is the way this ulti-
mately gets resolved.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:02 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.003 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S80 January 9, 2019
It seems to me, at least from my ob-
servation so far, that there has been no
movement, zero movement—zero move-
ment—on the part of the Democrats
when it comes to trying to resolve the
current situation.
I will simply say that I agree with
what the Democratic leader said as re-
cently as December; that is, in order
for either Chamber—the House or the
Senate—to vote on a compromise piece
of legislation, it needs to be a piece of
legislation that the President of the
United States has said he will sign.
Each of these elements has to come
together, and, obviously, each is very
relevant in this conversation. You can-
not have a law without a Presidential
signature. There are 535 Members of
Congress. There is only one President
of the United States, only one person
who can sign a bill into law. Obviously,
the President is a critical player in
this conversation.
Of course, the Democrats, as I said,
have the majority in the House of Rep-
resentatives. It takes 60 votes to do
anything in the Senate. I think we
have a majority of Senators who would
vote today to provide the funding that
is necessary to secure our borders, the
funding that the President has re-
quested, but it is going to take a num-
ber of Democrats, perhaps as many as 7
to 10 Democrats, in order for us to pass
a bill in the Senate.
The Democrats are very relevant in
this conversation. They are not irrele-
vant. They have to be at the table.
Normally a negotiation starts with the
two sides saying ‘‘This is where I am,
and this is where I am’’ and figuring
out how to reach that common ground,
how to reach that middle and structure
an agreement that could pass both the
House and the Senate and receive a
Presidential signature.
That is not what is happening right
now. I think we all know that. I think
it is very clear that the Democrats are
very dug in; they have not moved a sin-
gle inch off of their position from the
time that this whole shutdown started.
I think there is a path forward. I am
hopeful that negotiations, discussions
that will continue later today at the
White House, will lead us to a conclu-
sion, to an outcome, and to a result
that gets Federal employees back to
work, making sure the government
continues to function and run but also
addressing a critical and important pri-
ority for all of us as policymakers; that
is, ensuring that we secure our border
in a way to protect the American peo-
ple.
I think it should go without saying
that border security is a basic national
security requirement. Countries have
to secure their borders. They need to
know who is coming into their coun-
try, and they need to be able to keep
people who shouldn’t be entering the
country, such as criminals and drug
traffickers, out. Making sure that our
borders are secure is one of our most
essential responsibilities of Members of
Congress. It is a basic obligation, like
making sure our military is capable of
defending our country. While border se-
curity is always a national security
imperative, it is particularly impor-
tant right now because we have not
only a security but a humanitarian cri-
sis at our border.
Over the past year, illegal border
crossing apprehensions have shot up by
more than 30 percent. An average of
60,000 individuals try to cross our
southern border illegally each month.
This represents a serious security con-
cern. Among those trying to cross our
southern border are drug dealers, gang
members, human traffickers, and other
criminals.
This flood of attempted border cross-
ings also represents a serious humani-
tarian concern. Individuals attempting
the journey to come here illegally are
vulnerable to exploitation, illness, and
abuse. One out of every three women
attempting the journey to the United
States is sexually assaulted. A stag-
gering 70 percent of individuals become
victims of violence along the way. Ill-
ness and other medical issues are seri-
ous problems. Fifty migrants a day are
referred for medical care, and Customs
and Border Protection rescues 4,300
people in distress every single year.
There is a direct way to stem this
crisis, and that is to promote legal im-
migration and discourage people from
coming here illegally. How do we dis-
courage people from attempting to
come here illegally? Well, I would
argue we enforce our immigration laws
and prevent individuals from illegally
crossing our borders.
I have mentioned the dangerous indi-
viduals who can sneak across our po-
rous borders and the humanitarian cri-
sis we face, but of course there are even
more dangers posed by the weaknesses
in our border, both around barriers and
through our ports of entry, such as the
illegal drugs that are pouring into the
country.
Every week in this country, 300
Americans die from heroin. Ninety per-
cent of the heroin supply—90 percent—
flows across our southern border. In
2017, opioids were involved in the
deaths of almost 50,000 Americans.
Roughly half or more of those deaths
involved fentanyl, and a lot of that
fentanyl is coming across our borders
illegally. Federal agents have seen a
115-percent increase in the amount of
fentanyl seized between ports of entry.
One key part of addressing the opioid
epidemic in our country is shutting
down the flow of illegal drugs across
our porous borders.
Democrats used to understand the
need for border security. In 2009, the
Democratic leader here in the Senate
said:
Illegal immigration is wrong, plain and
simple. Until the American people are con-
vinced that we will stop future flows of ille-
gal immigration, we will make no progress
on dealing with the millions of illegal immi-
grants who are here now and on rationalizing
our system of legal immigration. That’s
plain and simple and unavoidable.
That is from the Democratic leader
here in the Senate in 2009.
In 2006, the Democratic leader and
the ranking member of the Senate Ju-
diciary Committee voted for legisla-
tion to authorize a border fence. They
were joined in their vote by then-Sen-
ator Biden, then-Senator Clinton, and
then-Senator Obama.
In 2013, every Senate Democrat sup-
ported legislation requiring the com-
pletion of a 700-mile fence along our
southern border. This legislation would
have provided $46 billion for border se-
curity and $8 billion specifically for a
physical barrier.
Nearly every Senate Democrat sup-
ported $25 billion in border security
funding just last February, and I sus-
pect that more than one Democrat still
understands that we desperately need
to improve security at our borders. But
the Democratic leadership refuses to
play ball. More than 2 weeks into this
shutdown, they are still not willing to
negotiate a solution that would secure
our borders and reopen the govern-
ment. Democratic leaders are willing
to ignore the security and humani-
tarian crisis at the southern border
simply because they don’t like this
President and because they are afraid
to oppose the far-left wing of their
party.
We need to end this partial shut-
down, and we need to reopen the gov-
ernment, but the only way for that to
happen is for Democrats to work with
Republicans and the President to pro-
vide adequate funding for border secu-
rity. Once they negotiate in good faith
toward a serious agreement that the
President will sign, the Senate will im-
mediately take it up so that we can
end this shutdown and take needed
steps to bolster security at our borders.
Border security is not some issue Re-
publicans have somehow dreamed up.
Securing our borders is a national se-
curity imperative, and both parties
have a responsibility to make sure our
Nation’s borders are protected. I hope
Democrats here in the Senate will re-
member their obligation to our Na-
tion’s citizens and work with the Presi-
dent to secure our borders and reopen
our government. I would end where I
started, and that is to say that in order
for that to happen, there has to be an
agreement. Both sides have to come to
the table. The President, the House,
and the Senate, Democrats and Repub-
licans, are all relevant in this con-
versation because it takes all to ac-
complish a legislative result that will
reopen our government, get Federal
employees back to work, and at the
same time take the important steps
that are necessary to secure our bor-
der.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I just
note parenthetically that virtually
every Republican and every Democrat
in this body has voted for the bills that
would open the government. Every sin-
gle Democrat in this body is willing—if
the Republican leader would bring
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:02 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.005 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S81
January 9, 2019
those bills back up—to vote for them,
and the government would open. So I
hope the Republican leader will allow
the government to open. There are a
lot of people who need to go back to
work, and I will speak about this later
today. It is going to be 10, 15 below zero
in my home State at one point this
week, making it more urgent that we
reopen the government. We also have
government contractors who would
like to get back to work.
CATHOLIC CLERGY MISCONDUCT
Now let me speak about a different
matter. I am going to speak as an indi-
vidual more than as a Senator. My wife
Marcelle and I, as Catholics, have
shared the concern of many, whether
Catholics or not, about the continued
revelation of often gross misconduct on
the part of some in the clergy and in
the hierarchy of our church. We have
seen this throughout the United
States, including in our own State of
Vermont.
I have rarely—rarely—spoken about
religious issues in my capacity as a
Senator, because I feel one’s religion is
private and certainly not political.
However, I have spoken out about my
concern and my dismay with what we
have heard, and Marcelle shares those
concerns with me.
I mention this because this past Sun-
day at mass at Holy Trinity Parish in
the District of Columbia, we heard a
sermon preached by Father Benjamin
Hawley, a member of the Jesuits. When
he finished his sermon, I will freely
admit I wanted to stand up and ap-
plaud him. He spoke about what the
church is finally doing in facing up to
this, but then he spoke about how he
was reacting and how one hopes we
might react, what the reaction should
be from the Pope straight down to
every member of the clergy and every
member of the laity. Except for some
sermons preached by Marcelle’s broth-
er, Father Claude Pomerleau, I do not
remember being so touched or affected
by a sermon.
I had not met Father Hawley before,
but after mass, I spoke with him, and I
asked him if I could have his permis-
sion to put his sermon into the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD. He agreed.
I ask unanimous consent that the
homily by Father Benjamin Hawley,
S.J., of January 6, 2019, be printed in
the RECORD at this time.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
HOMILY FOR THE FEAST OF THE EPIPHANY
Today we celebrate the Feast of the Epiph-
any, the appearance of Jesus the Messiah to
the world.
In classical Greek the word ‘‘epiphany’’
can refer to the appearance of dawn, as Isa-
iah, writing 500 years before Jesus’ birth,
does in our first reading: ‘‘See, darkness cov-
ers the earth, and thick clouds cover the peo-
ples; but upon you the Lord shines, and over
you appears his glory . . . Raise your eyes
and look about . . .’’
This appearance can intimate—Jesus’
touching your heart or mine with peace in
time of difficulty. Or the appearance can be
cosmic—the Prince of Peace revealed to
Herod and to the magi—and to our world
today.
Is it possible to see Jesus’ latest epiphany
in three recent events?
First, about 280 American bishops are in
retreat just outside Chicago—no lay staff, no
other priests. Guiding their retreat is
Raniero Cantalamessa, a Capuchin priest,
who is the Preacher to the Papal Household.
I have heard him speak, and he is excellent.
Second, a hard-hitting eight-page letter
from the Pope is guiding their prayer.
Francis asks them to reflect on ‘‘the steps
you are taking to combat the culture of
abuse and to deal with the crisis of credi-
bility’’ (page 1).
‘‘The church’s credibility has been seri-
ously undercut and diminished by these sins
and crimes, but even more by the efforts
made to deny or conceal them . . . (T)he
mentality that would cover things up, far
from helping to resolve conflicts, enabled
them to fester and cause even greater hurt
to the network of relationships that today
we are called to heal and restore’’ (p2).
‘‘Loss of credibility calls for a specific ap-
proach, since it cannot be regained by
issuing stern decrees or by simply creating
new committees or improving flow charts, as
if we were in charge of a department of
human resources’’ (p3).
Then, the Pope then takes them to task on
infighting:
‘‘The loss of credibility also raises painful
questions about the way we relate to one an-
other . . . (p3) This requires not only a new
approach to management, but also a change
in our mind-set, our way of prayer, our han-
dling of power and money, our exercise of au-
thority and our way of relating to one an-
other and to the world around us . . . (pp3–4).
Without (a) clear and decisive focus, every-
thing we do risks being tainted by self-
referentiality, self-preservation and defen-
siveness, and thus doomed from the start’’
(p4).
‘‘Let us try to break the vicious cycle of
recrimination, undercutting and discred-
iting, by avoiding gossip and slander in the
pursuit of a path of prayerful and contrite
acceptance of our limitations and sins, and
the promotion of dialogue, discussion and
discernment . . .’’ (pp5–6).
Finally, third, the presidents of bishops
conferences worldwide will meet in Rome in
late February in a meeting organized by four
church officials:
Blase Cupich, Cardinal-Archbishop of Chi-
cago;
Oswald Cracias, Cardinal-Archbishop of
Mumbai, India, and member of the Pope’s
council of cardinals;
Charles Scicluna, Archbishop of Malta and
head of investigating abuses in the Vatican’s
Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith; and
Jesuit Father Hans Zollner, president of
the Center for the Protection of Minors at
the Gregorian University, the Jesuit univer-
sity in Rome.
The pope’s letter seems to me right on tar-
get in tone and content. A retreat for dis-
cernment is very Ignatian, and the Vatican
meeting will ensure worldwide applicability.
So, can you and I believe that Jesus’ epiph-
any is the motive force behind the bishops’
retreat, the pope’s letter and February
bishops meeting?
We are called by Jesus himself to be hope-
ful. But we are also called to be thoughtful,
discerning good and evil around us. I find
myself seesawing between hope and doubt,
between hope and fear, between hope and no-
hope, as I reflect on the good and evil. I want
to have hope, but I have to admit that hav-
ing hope is hard, sometimes nearly impos-
sible.
It is true that Jesus grew up and became
the Messiah. But Herod’s murdering a gen-
eration of children went unpunished, as far
as I know, and the historical record on mass
murderers or mass abusers isn’t promising.
I am grateful for what the bishops and
Francis are now doing. But I keep asking
myself why it takes so much external pres-
sure to get them to do the right, decent
thing that seems so obvious and not even
that hard.
Some days I feel like Candide, returning
from his hero’s journey to cultivate his own
garden. In my garden I can be hopeful. But I
can’t live a solitary life. And when I re-en-
gage, I become discouraged when I find the
bishops’ response so slow and so begrudging.
But then I wonder about how God’s justice
and mercy might be made real in the next
life, especially for bishops, cardinals and
popes, but for us too. I imagine Purgatory
not as a place of hellfire and smoke, but
rather as a place where kindly but deter-
mined angels would sit, like referees in black
and white stripped outfits, each one in com-
fortable room in front of a large flat-screen
TV, each with a recently arrived soul.
In a gentle way the angel-referee would
guide the deceased not through an instant
replay but a slow replay of their lives, stop-
ping the action and asking each bishop, car-
dinal and pope—and each one of us—to re-
consider individual events in their lives, and
asking questions like, What were you think-
ing? How did that work out—for you and for
everyone else? If you had to do it again, how
might you choose?
There would be no scoreboard, because God
would want everyone to win, and no time
clock. Everyone would have time and all
eternity—with the angel-referee’s prompt-
ing—to rethink what they had said and done.
And some would have a very painful time
of it, because angels are messengers of God’s
justice. Their job is to reveal justice to the
minds of souls as yet living in darkness. And
the angel-referees would make the final call.
With that much time and such wise, per-
sistent guides, most would probably make it
to die podium for their trophy. Angels might
have to guide a few of the obdurate to long-
term parking, but such souls would have had
a chance and in the end would have put
themselves there.
In the meantime you and I are on the see-
saw.
Jesus began his life in his mother’s lap in
the stable, as the great artists have shown
us, but surrounded by the blood and death of
children and the corruption of the Jewish
king.
Jesus ended his life in his mother’s lap, as
Michaelangelo shows us in the Pieta, still
surrounded by the blood, death and the cor-
ruption of civic and religious leaders.
My question to myself is always, Does it
really have to be this hard? And the answer
seems to be, No, it doesn’t have to be. But,
Yes, it is going to be this hard as long as peo-
ple, especially people in positions of power,
make self-serving choices. The blood, death
and corruption are constants in human life.
And yet he is the Prince of Peace and the
source of our hope.
On this great Feast we can come to realize
that, if you and I have to live on the seesaw,
then at least we can remain anchored to
hope there, because Jesus, the source of our
hope, accompanied by his Blessed Mother,
has the power to anchor us there in love.
So, in our Eucharist today let’s share di-
vine love and hope with one another in com-
munion and leave here, imbued with new
hope to share with our world, so the world
too can find hope and peace.
Mr. LEAHY. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, from El
Paso to Brownsville, TX, my State
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.007 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S82 January 9, 2019
shares a 1,200-mile border with Mexico.
If you were daring enough to attempt
to walk that entire stretch, you would
trek through deserts, cross mountains,
through cities, and probably end up
getting a little wet in the Rio Grande
River. You would meet folks who are
proud of the strong bonds our country
has with our southern neighbor. Many,
of course, have relatives in both coun-
tries. You would talk to sheriffs, police
officers, Border Patrol agents, all who
care deeply about protecting our com-
munities. And undoubtedly, you would
end up eating some good Tex-Mex
along the way.
In my time in the Senate, I have had
the opportunity to meet countless Tex-
ans who live and work along the south-
ern border, and I seek their advice and
counsel on what Congress ought to do,
what the Federal Government ought to
do to protect them and their commu-
nities. What they tell me is that Tex-
ans and the Nation rely on the billions
of dollars of legitimate trade that
comes across the ports of entry with
Mexico. But with the growing volume
of goods crossing our borders and the
persistent staff shortages for Customs
and Border Protection, they want to
make sure there are no security gaps
that can be exploited by criminals or
slow down the legal movement of
goods. That is a concern I share, and I
continue to advocate for additional im-
provements in our ports of entry to
protect this vital lifeline for our econ-
omy, as well as our security.
But just as these communities care
deeply about the economic benefits of
our shared border, they care deeply, of
course, about their own safety and se-
curity. They believe that both can
peacefully coexist, and so do I.
During my visits, I have witnessed
some of the horrific treatment that mi-
grants receive at the hands of the
criminals, including those who smuggle
them. The truth is, these criminal or-
ganizations that move people and drugs
and contraband across our border ex-
ploit our porous border and care noth-
ing for human life. It is a commodity.
It is the way they make money. They
care nothing for the people they hurt,
so they wring another dollar out of
someone else’s misery on a daily basis.
It is a high-volume business, too, and
incredibly lucrative.
I have seen the stash houses with
windows lined with tin foil, and inside,
a veritable cesspool that makes you
want to gag or lose what you had for
lunch. This is where the human smug-
glers cram large groups of illegal im-
migrants in unimaginable conditions
while awaiting their transit to the in-
terior of the United States.
I have seen their logbooks where
they record their corrupt transactions,
correlating real-life human beings with
their value in dollars and cents.
I have talked to Border Patrol agents
who have discovered tractor trailers
full of people attempting to enter our
country, some of whom never complete
their journey because they die from ex-
posure or are smothered to death in the
crammed quarters.
In Brooks County, TX, where the
Falfurrias checkpoint of the Border Pa-
trol is located, about 50 miles north of
the border, I have seen unmarked
graves of the migrants who were trying
to cross vast swaths of South Texas in
the August heat in order to bypass the
Border Patrol checkpoint but then
were left to die by the smugglers. Their
graves are marked only with identities
like ‘‘skull case’’ or ‘‘unknown fe-
male.’’
Border security is not immoral, as
Speaker PELOSI has shamefully
claimed, but refusing to act in the face
of evil is immoral. It is clear that there
is a crisis, as it is clear that it is our
responsibility to restore safety and se-
curity and order. In my wildest
dreams, I never would have imagined
we would be debating whether we
should secure our borders, as we appar-
ently are now. That is something on
which we should all agree. Instead, we
should be focused on how to secure our
borders and how to do it in a smart, re-
sponsible way.
In my experience, learning from the
experts, they tell me there is no one-
size-fits-all solution. You can imagine
that with a 1,200-mile border with just
Texas and Mexico, with the variety of
topography and geography, one-size-
fits-all does not work. What works best
in the Rio Grande Valley doesn’t nec-
essarily work in an urban environment
like El Paso, with Juarez right across
the international bridge.
We need to customize solutions that
meet the specific need rather than try-
ing to dictate from here in Wash-
ington—thousands of miles away—a so-
lution that solves nothing. We need to
look at border security as a combina-
tion of three things: physical infra-
structure—yes, that includes barriers,
walls, fences, vehicle barriers in appro-
priate locations, but it also includes
technology—radar, ground sensors,
drones, aerostats. This is a layered ap-
proach that provides flexibility for the
experts on the ground to determine
what is best for each sector, what is
best for each part of our immense bor-
der, and implement the changes nec-
essary to achieve desired results. As I
said, in many areas, the landscape and
location mean physical barriers may
not be needed and may not be prac-
tical. In rural areas, technology—cen-
sor technology or cameras—may be
sufficient, but we know we need addi-
tional boots on the ground, too, be-
cause it is not enough to put a barrier
in place or have a radar or ground cen-
sor in place if you don’t have the Bor-
der Patrol to show up and detain peo-
ple they discover trying to make their
way illegally into the United States or
bringing drugs into the United States.
So some combination of these three
elements I think is always going to be
needed, no matter where you are talk-
ing about.
I am proud of the work we have done
in the Senate, generally speaking, and
I know when we work together we can
do a lot of good, but logic and experi-
ence should tell us we shouldn’t be the
ones deciding how every inch of our
southern border is secure. I don’t claim
to be an expert, although I have gone
to school on the topic and spent a lot
of time talking to those people who are
experts and learning from them. I be-
lieve we need to let those experts drive
the decision-making process on the
right combination of resources needed
to achieve operational control of the
border. Unfortunately, our Democratic
colleagues’ refusal to invest in real
border security has landed us in a par-
tial government shutdown resulting in
800,000 Federal workers who on Friday
will not get a paycheck. That is unnec-
essary. Unfortunately, they are collat-
eral damage to a political game which
we should not be playing. I know many
of these 800,000 Federal workers are al-
ready anxious about how they will
make a car payment or how they will
pay their mortgage or their rent or
how they will put food on the table. It
is completely unnecessary, this shut-
down.
I am afraid this debate on border se-
curity of course is not really a debate
about border security at all; it is a way
for congressional Democrats to take a
stand against a President they oppose
while putting border communities at
risk and sending the men and women
who protect them to work without pay.
This battle has gone on too long, and I
can only hope Speaker PELOSI and Mi-
nority Leader SCHUMER show some
leadership rather than continue to
take the low road. This shouldn’t be
about winning a partisan fight; it
should be about protecting our citizens
and stemming the tide of illegal immi-
gration, drugs, and contraband enter-
ing our country. If there were ever a
time, now is the time for common
sense to prevail and end this senseless
shutdown.
REMEMBERING RICHARD ARVIN OVERTON
Mr. President, on another matter, I
want to share a few words about an
American hero I had the pleasure to
get to know, Mr. Richard Arvin
Overton. Richard’s story began more
than a century ago on May 11, 1906, in
Bastrop County, TX. Throughout his
young life, he held a variety of jobs—
landscaping, picking cotton, working
at a furniture store, and building
homes.
In 1940, Richard enlisted in the U.S.
Army and began his military service at
Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio.
Serving with the 1887th Engineer Bat-
talion, an all-Black unit, one of his
first stops was Pearl Harbor, the day
after what we now know as the West
Loch Disaster.
In an interview in 2016, Richard re-
called that day, seeing the water turn
red from the blood of his brothers, say-
ing: ‘‘I didn’t look the same, but I got
out all right.’’ This was only the first
stop on Richard’s tour that led him to
the Pacific theater. His service in-
cluded stops in Guam, Palau, and Iwo
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:02 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.008 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S83
January 9, 2019
Jima, where he witnessed firsthand
some of the darkest days in our coun-
try’s modern history.
When the war ended, Richard re-
turned to Texas and built a home on
Hamilton Avenue. He originally reen-
tered the furniture business and then
began working for the State treasury
department. At the sprite age of 85,
Richard Overton decided to retire.
In 2013, the 107-year-old Richard
Overton made his first trip to Wash-
ington, DC, with an Honor Flight. He
was able to witness the memorial built
to honor his service and his comrades
who died in battle, a sight that brought
him to tears.
While his military service alone de-
serves our praise, that is not the only
thing that brought Richard to national
attention. His comments about the
keys to his longevity and long life and
particularly his daily routine made
Richard an internet sensation. His
penchant for enjoying coffee with whis-
key and 12 cigars a day won hearts and
caused all of us to question the secret
to his long life. Richard also enjoyed a
bowl of ice cream every night—always
butter pecan. He called this the
Overton diet and welcomed anyone in-
terested to give it a shot. Richard used
his newfound fame to continue life as
he always had but with more fans eager
to stop by and say hello while he was
sitting on the front porch. He contin-
ued to live in the same house he built
after the war, although the street
name has now been changed to carry
his name—Richard Overton Avenue.
I first met Richard in 2013, and I re-
member the day my wife Sandy and I
met him in his home in Austin. I was
taken aback to learn he had just got-
ten through mowing his lawn that
morning—107 years old and still mow-
ing his lawn.
Sadly, on December 27, 2018, the story
of this American hero came to an end.
At the ripe old age of 112 years, Rich-
ard passed away, leaving a host of
cousins and extended family members.
Yesterday, I introduced a resolution,
with my colleague Senator CRUZ, to
honor this great man, his military
service, and his enduring legacy. Our
country has lost a true patriot, our
State has lost a legend, and our com-
munity has lost a dear friend.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
WELCOMING NEW SENATORS
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, a
new year begins, and it brings us new
challenges, new opportunities, and new
faces in the 116th Congress.
I welcome the nine freshman Sen-
ators: Mrs. BLACKBURN of Tennessee,
Mr. BRAUN of Indiana, Mr. CRAMER of
North Dakota, JOSH HAWLEY of Mis-
souri, MARTHA MCSALLY of Arizona,
MITT ROMNEY of Utah, JACKY ROSEN of
Nevada, RICK SCOTT of Florida, and
KYRSTEN SINEMA of Arizona. Their tal-
ent and hard work brought them here,
and now we have an expanded Senate
Republican majority—a majority we
built on in the 115th Congress. Albeit,
we are still short of the 60 votes needed
to pass most pieces of legislation, we
have a group of people committed to
the values of our party and our country
and working together to find solutions
for the Nation.
During the swearing-in last week, as
I was sworn in to the Senate, my 96-
year-old mother joined us. She at-
tended, enjoyed it, watches the opening
every day for the Pledge of Allegiance
and for the prayer from Reverend
Black, and looks to that as a sign of
our Nation moving forward.
From the time I was a little boy, she
would always say: ‘‘This is the most
important year of your life.’’ She start-
ed when I was very young, and I think
her lesson remains today. For me and
for all of us, this is the most important
year of our lives, for ourselves, for our
Nation, and for the world. She would
say: What you do this year makes a big
difference for the future, so make sure
you do it right. Well, we are now at a
point of divided government—Demo-
crats control the House and Repub-
licans the Senate. We need to work to-
gether and do it right on behalf of the
American people.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. President, I think we have some
immediate tasks; one is to secure the
southern border and the other is to
fund the government. These goals are
not mutually exclusive. We can and we
must do both, and the key to breaking
the current impasse is for both parties
to work together.
President Trump, I believe, is abso-
lutely right to insist on border wall
funding. I think he is right to insist on
it before agreeing to sign spending leg-
islation to end the shutdown, and he
spoke passionately and I think spoke
convincingly about it last evening. If
the southern border were a patient—
and I practiced medicine for 24 years in
Wyoming—if the southern border were
a patient admitted to the hospital, it
would be listed in critical condition.
All Americans want an immigration
system that secures the border, en-
forces the law, and that keeps families
together. The problem of course is the
rise in illegal entry, terrorists, drug
smugglers, human traffickers, the
Mexican drug cartels, all exploiting
our porous border with Mexico. The
Customs and Border Protection Com-
missioner has called the situation a
‘‘border security and humanitarian cri-
sis.’’ That is what we are dealing with,
a border security and humanitarian
crisis.
Here are the numbers from the De-
partment of Homeland Security. Cur-
rently, 16,000 Border Patrol agents and
8,100 military troops guard the south-
ern border. The National Guard has
been deployed there continuously since
2006. Still, illegal border crossings in-
creased dramatically from 2017 to 2018.
In this past year, the year just ended,
396,000 people were stopped at the bor-
der, including 3,700 suspected terrorists
and 800 gang members. Of the border’s
1,950 miles, a physical barrier today
protects about 650 miles. Border Patrol
areas with enhanced or expanded bar-
riers have been successful. They have
seen a 90-percent decrease in illegal
traffic. That is why the President
wants to continue with additional
physical barriers to protect the border.
There is a huge improvement due to
the wall. Clearly, walls work, barriers
work. So I ask: Why is NANCY PELOSI,
the House Speaker, prolonging the
shutdown by denying critical funding?
She has called the wall immoral. I
would say what is immoral is refusing
to provide for the safety and security
of the American people by providing
border security.
Border security policymaking has al-
ways been bipartisan but not now, it
seems. The Pelosi plan to end the par-
tial shutdown isn’t serious policy; it is
political posturing. I say there is a par-
tial government shutdown because 75
percent of the government continues to
be funded. The Speaker’s proposal in-
cludes billions in wasteful spending
while ignoring the crisis at the border.
The President has promised to veto
what she is proposing, but instead of
negotiating, the Speaker is basically
playacting.
What is needed is an agreement be-
tween the President and the Demo-
cratic leaders in the House and Senate
that can pass the House and secure at
least 60 votes in the Senate and then be
signed into law.
As President Trump said in a Janu-
ary 4 letter to Congress, a nation that
fails to control its borders cannot ful-
fill its basic obligations to its citizens,
physical safety, economic safety, es-
sential public services, and the uniform
protection of our laws.
We cannot afford to play politics
with the border. I think we should lis-
ten to the advice my mother continues
to give me; that this is the most impor-
tant year of your life. It is important
for this body, for this institution, and
for this Nation. Let’s start 2019 and do
it in the right way by passing common-
sense legislation that does secure the
border, that does reopen the govern-
ment, and that protects the American
people.
Let’s work together to make this the
most important year, the start of a
better future for all Americans.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:02 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.009 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S84 January 9, 2019
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I want
to share with the body today my very
short New Year’s wish list. It is very
short because Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 are
all the same. We need to open the gov-
ernment. We need to reopen the one-
quarter of the Federal Government
that is shut down today. We need to
start acting like adults. We need to
start doing the job that we were sent
here to do because our Nation’s secu-
rity is at stake, kids’ health is at
stake, and families’ economic security
is at stake.
Hundreds of thousands of Federal
workers all across the country are fur-
loughed as we speak, including over a
thousand in Connecticut. But that is
not the extent of the damage. When
you start having folks at airport secu-
rity not be able to show up for their
jobs because they have to work some-
where else in order to put food on the
table, when you start creating ques-
tions about whether food stamps are
going to go out or Section 8 vouchers
are going to get paid, when you can’t
have the Department of Agriculture
functioning to help our farmers, you
are starting to affect a whole lot of
people. You are starting to drag down
the entire economy.
My hope—my wish—is that we will
reopen the Federal Government. The
fact of the matter is that this happens
every now and again. Occasionally,
somebody makes a demand, something
that they can’t get through the normal
political process, and they say if they
don’t get that demand, they are going
to shut down the government. Every
time I have been through one of these,
it is the party making the demand that
eventually relents because we tend to
all agree that is not the proper way in
order to try to get what you want in
the U.S. Government.
Senator CRUZ and others shut down
the government for 2 weeks because
they wanted to repeal the Affordable
Care Act. Eventually, they relented.
This time, President Trump couldn’t
get Congress to approve $5 billion for
his wall in the budget so he decided to
shut down the government. This is not
how we should conduct a debate about
legitimate public policy issues.
The future of the American
healthcare system was a legitimate
public policy issue, as is the security of
our borders, but we shouldn’t be having
the discussion amidst a government
shutdown—trying to use our Nation’s
security and all of these Federal work-
ers and the work they do as hostages to
try to achieve a political result.
Of course, we were all on the same
page just a few weeks ago. This body
voted unanimously to open the Federal
Government, and now Senator MCCON-
NELL says that piece of legislation that
all of us voted for in December can’t
pass.
What changed? What changed in each
one of your States that causes so many
Members of this body to now say that
they cannot vote for a continuing reso-
lution that you all voted for back in
December?
We know what has changed. The only
thing that has changed is that the
President has decided that he will not
sign it. That is not how the Constitu-
tion works.
The Constitution doesn’t make the
Senate subservient to the President.
The Constitution certainly doesn’t
make the President’s party subservient
to him. No one here has to follow the
orders of President Trump, especially
when he is doing something that is bad
for the Nation. We could bring up that
same bill that reopens the government
at least temporarily. We could all vote
the same way that we did back in De-
cember. We could send that bill to the
House of Representatives and admit
that the President shouldn’t dictate
our votes. Just because his position
changed doesn’t mean Senate Repub-
licans’ position should have changed.
Let’s reopen the government so that,
then, we can have a discussion about
the question of immigration law and
border security, because I am more
than willing to have it.
OK, I didn’t exactly tell the truth. I
do have two other wishes beyond re-
opening the government, but they are
connected to my primary wish. My sec-
ond wish is that the President would
stop making up things as he proceeds
through this debate. The worst of his
lies was the idea that there were 4,000
known or suspected terrorists who
came across our southern border. That
was a number proffered by the Press
Secretary at the White House. It has
been repeated in various ways, shapes,
and forms by the President’s allies.
Of course, we now know there have
not been 4,000 suspected terrorists that
have come across the southern border.
There have been six since the begin-
ning of this year. That is six people on
a terrorist watch list who were not
U.S. citizens. Do you know how many
people who fit that description came
across the northern border in the first
6 months of this year? Forty-one. If
you really care about the security of
this country—if your primary reason
for getting up every morning is to
make sure terrorists don’t get into this
country, then we should be putting up
a wall with Canada, not a wall with
Mexico.
The second fiction is that all of these
drugs coming into the United States
are crossing the U.S.-Mexican border at
places where there isn’t a wall. That is
not true either. The vast majority of il-
legal products that come into this
country come through ports of entry.
We should all talk about why that is
and what we can do to beef up protec-
tions, but putting up a wall along the
treacherous portions of the Rio Grande
are not going to stop smugglers who
right now can find lots of other ways to
get their goods into the United States.
I want to make sure that when we
have this debate, we are having a fact-
based debate.
My second wish in this new year is
that the President and his allies would
just start telling the truth, and the
truth is that there is not a new secu-
rity crisis at the southern border. Ille-
gal crossings have been coming down
since 2000. The people who are on the
terrorist watch list who occasionally
do try to come into this country are
predominantly trying to get in through
Canada, not through Mexico.
I want to talk about facts.
Here is my last wish. Again, Nos. 1, 2,
3, 4, and 5 are to reopen the govern-
ment. If I had No. 6 and 7, it would be
that the President start talking about
the real facts, and the other would be
this: Let’s not get into this very dan-
gerous conversation about trying to do
an end-around on the political process
with a national emergency. I guess I
am talking to my Republican col-
leagues here.
I get it that I often have some of the
sharpest words for this President, but I
hope that we can come together on the
idea that declaring a national emer-
gency because you can’t get what you
want through the political process is a
really bad precedent to set. It is true
that there are a whole bunch of na-
tional emergencies that have been de-
clared, but none of the circumstances
of those national emergencies and none
of the powers that were utilized in
those national emergencies compare to
what the President is reportedly con-
sidering.
If the President is really talking
about declaring a national emergency
on our border, despite the fact that
there is no set of facts that suggests
that what is happening on our border is
fundamentally different today than
what was happening a year ago or 10
years ago, and if the President is really
contemplating, by Executive order, re-
programming billions of dollars this
Congress set aside for military con-
struction projects to a border wall,
that is a Pandora’s box that, once
opened, cannot be shut again. This is a
genie escaping out of a bottle that will
not be put back.
I said in jest last night that if Presi-
dent Trump can use a national emer-
gency declaration to build a border
wall, what would stop a Democratic
President from declaring a healthcare
emergency and passing and declaring a
national emergency to create a single-
payer healthcare system in this coun-
try? I wouldn’t advise a Democratic
President to do that, but I am not sure
what the precedent would be if Presi-
dent Trump, having not been able to
get Congress and the American public
to get behind a border wall with Mex-
ico that nobody really wants, declares
a national emergency and builds it
anyway. What would then stop any fu-
ture President from doing the same
thing on a host of other policy areas?
Really, what would stop a President
from declaring a healthcare national
emergency because he or she can’t get
their legislation passed through the
Senate and reordering our insurance
markets and our Medicare and Med-
icaid programs to cure that national
emergency, simply shifting money
around from place to place?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:02 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.011 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S85
January 9, 2019
I don’t think this is an avenue that
the Federal Government should go
down because there will be a Demo-
cratic President someday, and if you
can just declare a national emergency
and move billions of dollars around be-
cause you can’t get your way in Con-
gress, that is a horse that, once out of
the barn, is not coming back.
That is my wish list: Open the gov-
ernment, open the government, open
the government, open the government;
pass the bills that we passed back in
December. Don’t let the President dic-
tate your votes. Let your constituents
dictate your votes.
I hope the President and the White
House start telling the truth about
what is really happening with border
security, and I hope this nonsense
about declaring a national emergency
goes away. I hope it goes away in part
because Republicans in this body rec-
ognize the really dangerous precedent
that sets for this country, and they
recommend publicly and privately to
the President that he shutter that idea.
We could reopen the government
today. If Senator MCCONNELL came
down here and decided to put a con-
tinuing resolution before this body and
said that it is the right thing to do for
the country, it would pass with flying
colors. If Senator MCCONNELL exercised
that kind of leadership that he has
shown in previous shutdowns, it would
pass with flying colors. We all know it
would. I am sure there would be a
handful of Republicans who just got
elected with President Trump’s support
who might not support it, but it would
pass just like it passed 3 weeks ago,
and it would likely pass the House of
Representatives by a veto-proof mar-
gin, as well, once the signal was given
by Senate Republicans that the adults
need to step up and reopen the govern-
ment.
So this whole crisis can be over to-
night. It can be over tonight if there is
some leadership shown by Senate Re-
publicans. Why spend all of this time
trying to control this body? Why spend
millions of dollars trying to run for of-
fice to become the majority party in
the U.S. Senate if you are not willing
to step up in a moment of crisis and
lead the country through it? It is still
possible, and I hope, as my new year’s
wish, that it gets done sooner rather
than later.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NATIONAL DEFENSE
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I rise to
speak on U.S. national defense.
In the last couple of years, we have
made tremendous progress in strength-
ening our military and have effectively
realigned our global posture and strat-
egy.
Under the new national defense strat-
egy, the United States has rightfully
recognized the return to great power
competition, where our priorities have
shifted from low-intensity conflict to
posturing against peer and near-peer
adversaries.
Over the last 17 years of combat in
the Middle East, U.S. dominance and
deterrence against great power com-
petitors have diminished. Meanwhile,
nations like China and Russia have un-
dertaken extraordinary military mod-
ernization efforts while engaging in un-
precedented and destabilizing aggres-
sion.
We have seen Russian intrusions in
cyberspace, the illegal annexation of
Crimea, information attacks on West-
ern democratic institutions, and the
spread of lies, half-truths, and slander
in order to sow division and chaos be-
tween the United States and other
partners.
These gray-zone activities, which are
actions below the level that would pro-
voke an armed conflict, have gone
mainly unchecked by the United
States, which has set a troubling prece-
dent and only serve to encourage fur-
ther provocation.
From China, we see these gray-zone
techniques manifested in their land
reclamation in the South China Sea,
the construction of their first foreign
military installations in Djibouti, and
the continuing theft of intellectual
property and trade secrets in critical
security areas.
They have also greatly undermined
our supply chain through the Made in
China 2025 initiative, which seeks to
ensure that the United States and oth-
ers remain reliant on the Chinese in-
dustrial base.
Above all, the United States is
threatened by Russia’s and China’s ad-
vances in emerging technology. This
includes hypersonic weapons, artificial
intelligence, space capabilities, quan-
tum computing, and directed energy.
Without significant resources and
focus, we will lose our technological
superiority in these very areas, and
both U.S. national security and the
global order will be in serious jeopardy.
Building off of our successes from the
last 2 years, Congress and the execu-
tive branch must remain committed to
investing in research, development,
rapid acquisition, and the deployment
of capabilities that provide for deter-
rence in line with the threats of the
21st century.
Just as we rose to the challenge in
the two World Wars, the Cold War, and
following the attacks on September 11,
2001, we must, once again, evaluate our
current posture and chart a course that
best protects our national security and
our interests.
While the national defense strategy
correctly prioritizes a return to great
power competition, we still have great
national security threats in the low-in-
tensity domain, particularly in the
Middle East and in North Africa.
The success of our missions in Iraq,
Afghanistan, Syria, and Africa are im-
portant. They can be seen in our abil-
ity to prevent extremist groups from
projecting attacks into the U.S. home-
land.
Through the heroic and dedicated
service of our men and women in uni-
form, we have put unyielding pressure
on foreign terrorists and, in turn, we
have prevented another massive attack
like we saw on 9/11.
While we have seen tremendous bat-
tlefield success against groups like the
Islamic State, counterterrorism and
stability operations require a sustained
commitment of presence and resources
in order to consolidate gains and pro-
mote good governance and the rule of
law. In the absence of the latter,
ungoverned spaces quickly transform
into breeding grounds for terror
groups, and that is why we are in Iraq.
That is why we are in Afghanistan, and
that is why we should remain in Syria.
We must do that until our objectives
are met.
Balancing our approach toward both
low- and high-intensity threats will re-
quire us to rely on our allies and our
partners more than we have had to rely
on them in the past decades, as we
have a limited supply of resources for
our national defense. However, if we
are able to leverage the resources of
our friends, we will assume less risk as
we move to more resources toward
countering great power threats. Like-
wise, as we seek to bolster our defense
posture toward peer competitors, we
will greatly benefit from increased con-
tributions and commitments from our
allies and our partners. That means in-
sisting that our treaty allies con-
tribute their fair share to the inter-
national security burden and also en-
suring that our allies and partners are
investing in weapons systems and mili-
tary platforms that interoperate with
ours while effectively deterring our
common adversaries.
We cannot and should not abandon
those who share our values of democ-
racy and freedom but, rather, work
with them to increase defense con-
tributions and build necessary capa-
bilities and capacities. Unlike Russia
and China, our network of allies and
friends, who have stood shoulder to
shoulder with us in the defense of free-
dom and democratic values, are a
source of great strength, as well as an
integral part of promoting global secu-
rity.
I would be remiss if I did not take
this opportunity to once again ac-
knowledge the most detrimental adver-
sary of our national defense; that is,
poor fiscal policy. As then-Secretary
Mattis stated when he announced the
National Defense Strategy, continuing
resolutions and sequestration have hin-
dered our security more than any foe.
These wasteful applications of tax-
payer dollars prevent long-term plan-
ning, stymie research and develop-
ment, delay critical procurement, and
prevent necessary training and readi-
ness investments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.012 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S86 January 9, 2019
What we do in this Chamber has con-
sequences that reverberate far beyond
Washington. When we fail to do our
job, we put our warfighters at higher
risk and cripple our strategic posture,
ultimately endangering our national
security. That is why I have come to
the floor today to urge bipartisanship
and collaboration amongst both Houses
of Congress on defense spending policy.
The political climate of today will as-
suredly prevent progress in some areas
of Congress’s work, but I encourage my
colleagues to set those differences
aside when we consider policies and ap-
propriations for our national defense.
We have a lot of work ahead in order
to protect our security and interests,
but I am confident we can come to-
gether to solve these issues of critical
importance.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, as our
colleague from Iowa just pointed out,
these problems not only need to be
solved, but they are solvable. At the
core of the debate we are having right
now is obviously border security. Ev-
erybody says they are for border secu-
rity, but they have different views of
what that means.
I want to start by saying that I fully
support the President’s call for a more
secure border, and, frankly, I think
physical barriers are part of that. We
have thought that for a long time.
They work. People who now are op-
posed to them generally have often
been for them.
In fact, a generation ago, we began
improving and expanding barriers in a
few areas along the southern border,
and in every instance, they have made
a difference.
In 1992, the U.S. Government built a
wall in the San Diego sector of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, and
the number of people caught crossing
that border decreased by 95 percent
when the barrier was erected.
The border is not exactly like a bank.
You don’t have to have a level of secu-
rity that nobody can ever get through
at any time, under any circumstances,
but if you have a solution that solves
95 percent of the problem, that may be
about all we can afford to do in terms
of solving the problem that way. That
barrier, that wall, that fence south of
San Diego did exactly that.
The next year, we built a wall in El
Paso, TX, at that part of the border,
and there was a decrease of 95 percent
there as well.
In 2000, we built a wall at the Tucson,
AZ, sector, and apprehensions there
dropped 90 percent.
We have a 90-percent solution or a 95-
percent solution. That is reasonable to
the American people who think that
the job of the Federal Government—
and they are right in this—that one of
the jobs of the Federal Government is
to secure its border.
You wouldn’t have to look very far in
troubled parts of the world to find a
story about Lebanon or some other
country—to read that sentence that
says: This government is not truly
functional because they don’t have
control over their own borders. It is a
reasonable expectation of government.
In 2000, as I said, we built a wall in
Tucson.
You can call this whatever you want
to. If you are offended when I say
‘‘wall’’ or ‘‘fence,’’ you say whatever
you want to say—it has the same im-
pact.
I have been to the border a number of
times. I have walked along the barriers
there. I have been on one side of the
fence—the two sides of a fence with a
patrolled roadway in between. It
looked pretty effective to me, and the
numbers indicate it was effective.
In 2005, when we added a wall in the
Yuma part of the Arizona sector, ap-
prehensions went down another 95 per-
cent.
We have President Clinton and Presi-
dents Bush—Bush 43 and Bush 41—all
were part of thinking barriers worked,
and the Congress was too. There was
not an issue as to whether a wall
works, where a wall works, until Presi-
dent Trump as a candidate began to
talk about building a wall. They have
made a big difference in the areas
where we have tried them in the past.
The President has often said in re-
cent days that the wall doesn’t nec-
essarily work everywhere, and I fully
agree with that. We couldn’t afford to
have the wall everywhere, and if we did
have the wall everywhere, you would
have to monitor it with some remote
monitoring device anyway because
there are large sections of the border
where there aren’t people and where
there is no access. It doesn’t mean you
can’t monitor that. It doesn’t mean
you can’t have that kind of a wall
erected. We need to do that.
In November, there were nearly 52,000
people who were caught trying to
sneak across the border. Now, you can
act like that is not a very big prob-
lem—unless you have ever lived in a
community of, say, 52,000 people, and
then you realize that is a lot of people.
And in 1 month alone, they were com-
ing across the southwest border.
According to the Department of
Homeland Security, nearly 17,000
criminals were apprehended trying to
get into the country last year. That is
about half of the population of the cap-
ital city of Missouri. Seventeen thou-
sand people trying to get in with a
criminal record just last year.
We have seen a 50-percent increase in
gang members being caught trying to
come into the country illegally and a
73-percent increase in the seizures of
fentanyl.
One of the things we do in the health
and human services area that I work in
and appropriate for and work for an ap-
propriate opioid response is try to fig-
ure out how we can get fentanyl out of
this system, how we can get something
out of this system that is deadly for a
significant number of the people who
turn to that as they get addicted to
painkillers. If the fentanyl seizures are
up 73 percent over where they were the
year before, something needs to be
done. We clearly need to secure our
borders.
I support the immigration system. I
am a proponent of legal immigration. I
think how we meet the workforce
needs of the country, how we deal with
the fact that we have people who are
here who aren’t legal, who have other-
wise not gotten in trouble in the coun-
try—about half of them came across
the border, and about half of them
came in some other way and decided,
this is a pretty doggone good place, and
I want to stay here and am afraid to go
home because I may not get back—how
do we deal with that? How do we deal
with this in a way that we meet our
workforce needs, that the skill needs of
the country are met? And skill needs
can be unskilled people—we don’t have
people willing to do some unskilled
jobs—and highly skilled people. We
don’t have enough people doing their
jobs in an economy that is growing
faster than the economy has grown in a
long time. The economic numbers in
some cases are better than they have
been in 50 years and in most cases have
been better than they have been in at
least a decade.
Every part of the border doesn’t need
to be secured the same way, but the
border needs to be secured. Our friends
on the other side, in what has been a
pretty impressive show of party unity,
have just decided that they want to re-
ject the options of how we secure the
border. People who have voted to build
and maintain almost 700 miles of bor-
der fencing have suddenly decided that
another 50 miles or another 2 miles is
immoral. Talk about selective immo-
rality. That it is OK to have 700 miles
of fence but it is not OK to have 702
miles of fence is a very interesting
place, it seems to me, to draw the line.
Our friends on the other side have re-
jected attempts to fix the way we deal
with children who are brought across
the border or come across on their own.
There are 48,000 children right now that
the U.S. Government is doing their
best to take care of—I hope and insist
that we do that—who came across the
border on their own. Another 2,600 or so
came across the border with an adult.
More often than not, that adult was
their parent, but not always. We have
50,000 children who came across the
border, and there is no response to any
ideas that the administration brings
up, no positive response from the other
side as to how to deal with that.
They have rejected adding beds at de-
tention centers for people who are
caught crossing the border illegally.
Why would you do that? Why would
you not want to have additional space
for people who are in custody for ille-
gal behavior? I suppose because it be-
comes so critically important that peo-
ple just be released on their own recog-
nizance, to come back at a later time.
Some of our friends on the other side,
in fact, have called for the complete
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.015 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S87
January 9, 2019
abolition of U.S. Customs and Immi-
gration Enforcement efforts. At the
very time when these are some of the
most stressed people working on behalf
of the country for the Federal Govern-
ment, we have people on the other side
saying we should eliminate border en-
forcement.
We had a bill introduced in this
Chamber last year that every Member
of the minority supported. When you
read it closely—I am not at all sure
they all did because I don’t believe this
is the position they all had, but when
you read it closely, it was a clear open
borders bill. There was no way anybody
was likely to be apprehended crossing
the border except just to tell them
‘‘You know you are here legally now.
Come back sometime, and we will see if
we can figure out what to do.’’
We are for protecting people who are
uniquely at risk in the country that
they come from.
Asylum is an important thing. No
country in the history of the world has
been any more open than we have been
to allowing people to come here le-
gally, to have people who legally seek
asylum come here. But the truth is,
there is no asylum granted just be-
cause you are from a poor country or
from a dangerous country, so most of
the people who come saying that they
are seeking asylum don’t get it. Maybe
that is why most of them don’t show up
in court. They know that their argu-
ment—they would rather be here than
where they are from, but their argu-
ment will never work in court for most
of them, and that is clearly under-
stood.
We are going to have a lot better op-
portunity to solve the problems we
need to solve regarding the border if
people have confidence that the gov-
ernment has done a reasonable job of
securing the border. I don’t think any-
body expects the border in a big coun-
try like ours to be so impenetrable
that nobody could ever get in under
any circumstances. I think they do ex-
pect that when you have found the 90-
or 95-percent solution, appearing until
now to be affordable and widely sup-
ported—when you have found the 90-
percent solution, people do expect that
at the very least that you would apply
the 90-percent standard to the responsi-
bility of the government to secure its
borders.
So whether it is trying to figure out
what we need in our workforce to have
a continued growing and vibrant econ-
omy or it is trying to figure out what
we do about people who have come here
and decided to stay, whether they came
here across the border or in some other
way but stayed beyond the time they
were supposed to be here or got here
without going through the normal
process—those are going to be much
easier to come to a conclusion on if
people know that the government has
done its job to get the border under an
acceptable and anticipated level of se-
curity, which we would expect to have
in a country as strong and vibrant as
ours.
Particularly for people who were
brought here and grew up here, this is
an 80-percent issue in the Congress and
in the country. Virtually nobody
thinks kids who grew up here and
didn’t get in significant trouble
shouldn’t be allowed to live in the
country they grew up in. Frankly, we
need them. We need young people en-
tering the workforce. We need people
who are, in almost all cases, highly
motivated.
I talked to a university president
just this week who said that these kids
are the kids who, over and over again,
set the standard. They are the kids
who, over and over again, prove why we
want them to be in our country.
These problems will be much more
solvable if we will just deal with the
one fundamental problem of control-
ling our borders, of having immigra-
tion laws that work.
I hope, as was mentioned earlier
today, that we can get to this conclu-
sion and get to this conclusion quickly.
This is obviously a place where we need
to come together. Not only does the
government need to function, but this
is an issue we need to solve, and I guar-
antee that all of these related issues
will be more easily solved if we secure
the border.
No President has ever had the credi-
bility that this President will have if
he says to the American people: I have
met my commitment. The border is se-
cure. We are now continuing to work to
be sure that the court systems work,
that we have protected those people
who protect us on the border. There is
great credibility here if the President
is willing to get to a place that he can
say that.
I think his efforts to secure the bor-
der are significant steps toward allow-
ing us to solve the other problems we
need to solve, and we need to solve
them sooner rather than later.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:20 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and reassem-
bled when called to order by the Pre-
siding Officer (Mr. COTTON).
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
CONSTITUTING THE MAJORITY
PARTY’S MEMBERSHIP ON CER-
TAIN COMMITTEES FOR THE ONE
HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 12, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 12) to constitute the
majority party’s membership on certain
committees for the One Hundred Sixteenth
Congress, or until their successors are cho-
sen.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to and the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 12) was agreed
to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
f
CONSTITUTING THE MINORITY
PARTY’S MEMBERSHIP ON CER-
TAIN COMMITTEES FOR THE ONE
HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 13, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 13) to constitute the
minority party’s membership on certain
committees for the One Hundred Sixteenth
Congress, or until their successors are cho-
sen.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to and the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 13) was agreed
to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—Motion to Proceed—
Continued
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, this
shutdown is not a negotiation situa-
tion. This is a hostage situation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.016 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S88 January 9, 2019
The President of the United States
has taken 800,000 Federal workers, tens
of thousands of Federal contractors,
and thousands of small businesses hos-
tage to extort money for his vanity
wall.
We have all heard from our constitu-
ents about the pain the shutdown is
causing. This Friday many government
employees will miss their first pay-
check as a result of the shutdown.
Most of us live in a world where we
need paychecks, and it is obvious that
our constituents shouldn’t have to
‘‘make adjustments,’’ as the President
frames it, for the President’s shut-
down.
Our 800,000 Federal workers aren’t
the only people in our country feeling
the impact of the shutdown. The situa-
tion is inflicting unnecessary pain on
our government contracting commu-
nity and small businesses that rely on
the day-to-day operations of the Fed-
eral Government, not to mention the
millions of Americans who request gov-
ernment services.
Let me just tell one story. Michelle
Baker is a Federal contractor in
Waikiki who helps the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration,
the Fish and Wildlife Service, and
other agencies to write reports in a
way that is accessible to the public.
Michelle told Honolulu Civil Beat that
she and her husband have resorted to
taking out a payday loan with an ex-
ceptionally high interest rate to pay
for their food this week.
Let me be clear. There are two people
who can end the pain of the shutdown
right now—Donald Trump and Senate
majority leader MITCH MCCONNELL.
The President has demonstrated re-
peatedly that his word is not good. He
is an amoral hostage taker, and you
cannot and should not negotiate with a
hostage taker.
Senator MCCONNELL, on the other
hand, has not held back in exercising
his power when he saw fit to do so. Sen-
ator MCCONNELL had no problem using
his power to unilaterally deny Judge
Merrick Garland to serve on the U.S.
Supreme Court. Senator MCCONNELL
had no problem using his power to
lower the number of Senators it would
take to confirm nominees to the Su-
preme Court, starting with Neil
Gorsuch. Senator MCCONNELL had no
problem using his power to force the
Senate to come within one vote of de-
nying healthcare to millions of Ameri-
cans by bringing forth a bill to repeal
the Affordable Care Act. Senator
MCCONNELL had no problem using his
power to ram through a huge tax cut
for the wealthiest Americans and cor-
porations at the expense of middle-
class families.
Senator MCCONNELL has the power to
end the shutdown by bringing up the
legislation that the House has sent us—
the same legislation that passed the
Senate last Congress—to get the full
government open and running again.
We should all be asking: Why won’t
Senator MCCONNELL use his power to
help 800,000 Federal workers and tens of
thousands of government contractors
get their paychecks? No one needs to
remind Senator MCCONNELL that Con-
gress is a separate branch of govern-
ment. The Senate can act without the
hostage taker President’s consent or
assent.
Since the amoral President has
hunkered down with his hostage strat-
egy, I call on Senator MCCONNELL to
use his power to do his job as Senate
majority leader. More Members of his
own caucus are coming forward every
day and calling on him to act, regard-
less of whether the President threatens
or promises a veto.
It is time for Senator MCCONNELL to
stand up to Donald Trump and for the
Senate to do our job and end this shut-
down.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mrs. MURRAY. I ask unanimous con-
sent to speak as in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I come
to the floor on what is now day 19 of
the Trump shutdown—an epic Presi-
dential temper tantrum that forces the
rest of us to, once again, plead with the
President to stop hurting the American
families he promised to represent. This
time, it is because President Trump
marched our country right into a gov-
ernment shutdown, paralyzing Federal
Agencies and preventing them from
carrying out the most basic govern-
ment functions.
What does this government have to
show for it? Eight hundred thousand
hard-working Americans, some off the
job and some still asked to come in.
Their bills are mounting and no money
is coming in. That includes the air
traffic controllers in my home State of
Washington who wrote me letters.
They don’t question whether they will
keep showing up to do the job they
love—a job that keeps the public safe—
but they have no idea when they will
get their next paycheck. That means
stress, stress about providing for their
families, stress about being able to pay
their mortgages, pay for preschool, pay
down post-Christmas bills. They are
forced to bear the brunt of this Trump
shutdown.
It is not just Federal workers. Thou-
sands of senior citizens and individuals
with disabilities are facing possible
eviction as HUD scrambles to figure
out how to make housing payments.
Our national parks, the crown jewels of
our country, are no longer adequately
maintained for public use, while the
small businesses right outside the
parks that rely on visitors, like those
outside Mount Rainier National Park
in my home State of Washington, are
feeling the pain and cutting back on
staffing. Our farmers and our tree fruit
growers are unable to get their applica-
tions processed through the shuttered
Farm Service Agency. Millions of low-
income families are now unsure if they
will receive the help they need to put
food on the table for their children in
the coming weeks.
I could go on, but I don’t need to.
With each passing day, it is very clear
just how much this Trump shutdown is
hurting families in every community
in every State of our country, and no
prime time address or fearmongering
trip to the border is going to change
that reality.
To President Trump, I say: Enough
with the tweets, enough with the fact-
twisting. It is time to stop playing pol-
itics and finally agree to end this shut-
down that you began. Stop trying to
bully your way out of this mess.
To my Senate colleagues, I say: In
case it is not crystal clear, ending this
nightmare is not complicated. Three
weeks ago, in this very spot, we passed
a bill that kept the Federal Govern-
ment open without funding Trump’s
wasteful wall, the one he promised
Mexico would pay for. That bill was
very simple. It was all about keeping
our government open and avoiding a
completely unnecessary crisis.
Democrats supported the bill. Repub-
licans supported it. In fact, it passed
unanimously because we know the peo-
ple we represent have no interest in
elected officials playing games with
their lives and livelihoods.
Now the Democratic House has fol-
lowed suit. They have passed a bill that
will do the same thing. Yet that simple
solution—keeping our government
funded, on schedule, and without inter-
ruption—has been stopped in its tracks
by President Trump, who apparently
sees no problem with keeping the gov-
ernment shut down for months or even
years, as he said, all to fulfill a shallow
campaign promise that everyone knows
will do nothing to truly address our
broken immigration system and keep
our country safe.
What we have here is a crisis of the
President’s own making, from top to
bottom. I, for one, find it simply out-
rageous that instead of searching for
real solutions or working with Con-
gress in good faith, the President is
dug in and demanding American tax-
payers bail him out to save face.
Members of this Congress were elect-
ed to make decisions that help the
American people. We were not sent
here to provide cover for the President.
I urge my Republican colleagues to
make it your priority to work with us
to fund our government and end this
completely unnecessary crisis.
This started out as a Trump shut-
down, but with every day that passes
that the Republican Senate will not
act, Republican leaders take more and
more ownership, along with every Re-
publican Senator who supports them.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.019 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S89
January 9, 2019
Some Republicans in the Senate are
already standing up, and I commend
them. They want to work with us to
stand up to President Trump and to
end this shutdown, and they would like
the opportunity to vote to do just that,
but not enough yet, and the clock is
ticking.
I say this to Republican leaders:
Work with us to restore certainty to
the American people—from the hun-
dreds of thousands of Federal workers
who are being forced to forgo their pay-
checks to the small business owners, to
the farmers, to the seniors and low-in-
come families, to the air traffic con-
trollers and all those people whose
lives are being unnecessarily thrown
into chaos and who deserve a fully
functioning government.
The President of the United States
may be throwing a tantrum and play-
ing political games, but the people we
represent and our country as a whole
deserve a whole lot better.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
TOOMEY). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LEAHY. It is now day 19 of the
Trump shutdown, 19 days that the Fed-
eral Government of the oldest democ-
racy and the world’s only superpower
has been functioning on only half of its
cylinders.
I have spoken multiple times about
the devastating impact this reckless
and unnecessary shutdown is having on
the Federal workforce at domestic de-
partments and agencies—departments
like Homeland Security, Agriculture,
Transportation, Justice, Interior, and
Commerce, agencies like Customs and
Border Patrol, the Drug Enforcement
Agency, and the National Park Serv-
ice.
These departments and agencies have
furloughed and stopped paying hun-
dreds of thousands of employees who,
as a result, are idle and no longer able
to do the jobs that millions and mil-
lions of Americans depend on. Hun-
dreds of thousands more are working
without pay until the shutdown ends.
The President, a billionaire who has
never had to worry about not being
able to pay the rent, says he can relate.
If he actually believes that, he is alone.
Programs are on hold, and contracts
are being cancelled, for which the Fed-
eral Government is liable for penalties.
Government shutdowns don’t save
money; they cost billions of dollars and
have lasting consequences. And who
pays? American taxpayers.
This is a disgrace, and it is made
even more so by the fact that it is en-
tirely avoidable were it not for the in-
transigence, indifference, and obsession
of one person, President Donald
Trump.
An obsession not with border secu-
rity—we are all for that, and there is
more than a billion dollars in prior ap-
propriations for border security wait-
ing to be spent. In fact, we have offered
another $1.3 billion for fiscal year 2019.
The White House never says anything
about that.
No, the President’s myopic obses-
sion—repeated on national television
last night—is with building a 30-foot-
high wall—mostly on desolate land
that the government will have to seize
from private owners—along our south-
ern border. The price tag to U.S. tax-
payers would be at least $18 billion and
likely more, a price tag that at cam-
paign rally after campaign rally he
promised Mexico would pay.
There are multiple reasons why that
is a terrible idea, why it won’t stop il-
legal migration, why it won’t stop il-
licit drugs, and why it would be a co-
lossal waste of taxpayer dollars, which
I have discussed before and will again.
Today I want to speak briefly about
the impact the Trump shutdown is hav-
ing not on the Federal Government’s
domestic programs and workforce, but
its impact on U.S. national security
and global leadership.
It is worth asking: What made the
United States the world’s superpower
and a global leader in the first place?
Of course, one reason is our superior
Armed Forces. That, I suspect, is the
answer President Trump would give,
but he would be only partly correct.
Even more important are the ideals
enshrined in our Constitution and Bill
of Rights, our democratic institutions
and coequal branches of government,
our diverse citizenry, and our regional
and global alliances and partnerships.
Without these, our men and women in
uniform would have precious little to
defend.
Today, the global supremacy and in-
fluence of the United States are being
challenged like no time since the Cold
War with the former Soviet Union.
Why? One need look no further than
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
Since his first days in office, Presi-
dent Trump has disparaged long-
standing friends and allies. He has
withdrawn from international agree-
ments negotiated by past Republican
and Democratic administrations, an-
nounced plans to withdraw from a key
nuclear nonproliferation treaty, and
proposed drastic cuts to the operations
and programs of the State Department
and the U.S. Agency for International
Development, which implement foreign
policy.
Now the State Department, like
other Federal departments and agen-
cies, is swept up in the Trump shut-
down.
Our choices are obvious: We can en-
gage with the world by affirming our
commitment to our ideals, by con-
tinuing to strengthen our democratic
institutions, by empowering our dip-
lomats and by expanding our global al-
liances and partnerships.
Or we can withdraw, even to the
point of shutting down the Federal
Government, cede the global stage to
others whose interests are often ad-
verse to our own, and become the cap-
tives of simplistic campaign slogans,
xenophobic antimigrant hysteria, and a
manufactured national security emer-
gency.
The President said the country need-
ed a ‘‘good’’ shutdown. He said that: a
‘‘good’’ shutdown. There is no such
thing.
He said he would be ‘‘proud’’ to take
the ‘‘mantle of blame’’ for shutting
down the government. Then the next
day he blamed Democrats, rejecting
out of hand our proposal to pass the six
appropriations bills that already re-
ceived overwhelming bipartisan sup-
port in the Republican-controlled Sen-
ate.
Most of those bills have nothing to
do with border security, but the Presi-
dent is obstinately holding hostage
thousands of Federal programs funded
in those bills, including the paychecks
for the people who implement them,
which harms all Americans.
With a stroke of a pen, the President
could reopen the government and con-
tinue negotiations on border security;
yet he refuses, and instead he flip-
pantly said the shutdown could last
‘‘months’’ or even ‘‘years.’’
What has this reckless abuse of exec-
utive power meant for our standing in
the world? What has it meant for our
diplomats at the State Department and
in our embassies overseas whose job is
to protect our global interests, to
maintain our alliances and partner-
ships, to assist the millions of Ameri-
cans working, studying and serving
overseas, and to protect our security?
As of yesterday, 34 percent—more
than one-third—of U.S. direct-hire
State Department employees in Wash-
ington and at our embassies around the
world have been furloughed. That is
nearly 10,000 employees at the State
Department alone who are unable to do
their jobs. Others are working without
pay.
If the shutdown continues, more pay-
checks will be withheld, the number of
furloughed employees will increase,
and there will be a parallel shutting
down of diplomacy, of programs, of
contracts, and of our ability to engage
with both allies and adversaries.
The effects are far reaching.
The Bureau of Diplomatic Security
will run short of funds, forcing the
State Department to deplete resources
used to keep other programs operating
order to protect our diplomats and fa-
cilities overseas or eventually relying
on unpaid contractors to do the job.
Roughly 85 percent of the employees
of the State Department’s Office of In-
spector General have already been fur-
loughed. Oversight of waste, fraud, and
abuse has virtually ground to a halt.
Vietnam, a country of nearly 100 mil-
lion people bordering China, is becom-
ing a key security partner in the Pa-
cific region; yet thanks to the Trump
shutdown, key employees at our em-
bassy and USAID mission in Hanoi
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.021 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S90 January 9, 2019
were furloughed. The American flag is
flying, and the lights are on, but that
is about it.
This is illustrative of what is hap-
pening in every region of the world,
and it does not take a lot of imagina-
tion to predict the consequences of a
longer shutdown.
For example, the State Department
and U.S. Embassies regularly use their
social media accounts to update Amer-
icans overseas of important develop-
ments that potentially threaten their
safety. This was the case during the re-
cent tsunami in Indonesia. How will
the State Department respond to the
next natural disaster when its social
media accounts—tools that are relied
on increasingly in today’s world—have
fallen silent?
What about the loss of U.S. influence
on the world stage? With most official
travel suspended, how do we ensure
that our priorities are protected at the
next trade, arms control, or inter-
national health summit?
What do you suppose the leaders of
China, Russia, Iran, Syria and North
Korea—not to mention allies like
Great Britain, Canada, and Japan—
think about this?
If I were President Putin, or Presi-
dent Xi Jinping, or Ayatollah
Khamenei, I would be celebrating.
What could be better than U.S. Embas-
sies operating on life support and U.S.
diplomats sidelined, while the U.S.
Government is shut down over building
a wall across the southwest desert?
Does President Trump think the rest
of the world will sit idly by, waiting
until the U.S. Government reopens?
The opposite will happen. They will
take full advantage in ways that will
not be short lived.
While massive humanitarian crises
imperil the lives of millions of people
in Yemen, Syria, Burma, Venezuela,
and Central Africa, the White House is
embracing a diminishing role for the
United States.
While Russia meddles in our elec-
tions and expands its influence in the
Middle East, while China buys the alle-
giance of countries in Africa, Asia, and
our own hemisphere by investing bil-
lions in ports, energy and transpor-
tation projects, the State Department
is shutting down programs and sending
its people home.
It is not just the State Department.
USAID, the Peace Corps, the Millen-
nium Challenge Corporation, they are
all furloughing personnel and cancel-
ling new activities.
With the exception of the U.S. mili-
tary, if this drags on, the United States
will be a superpower in name only. An
exaggeration? Don’t bet on it.
While our diplomats are furloughed,
rather than use the funds Congress al-
ready provided for border security that
remain unspent, the President has
threatened to ignore the legislative
process, declare a national emergency
where none exists, and order the Pen-
tagon to pay for the wall that he swore
Mexico would pay for.
Such a flagrant, unwarranted misuse
of authority and circumvention of the
democratic process would be imme-
diately challenged by Congress and in
the courts.
Regardless of the outcome, what
would it say about our commitment to
democracy around the world? How
would it be perceived outside this coun-
try, particularly by autocrats in Syria,
Saudi Arabia, the Philippines, Brazil,
Egypt, Russia, Hungary, Poland, or
China?
It would be welcomed as a green light
for declaring a state of emergency and
wielding unchecked executive power—
without regard for the legislature or
judiciary—as a pretext to do virtually
anything. Shut down the independent
press. Arrest judges and opposition po-
litical leaders. Use the army to police
the streets. Close the borders. All in
the name of a manufactured national
emergency.
This is already happening. In Guate-
mala, which purports to be a democ-
racy, President Morales is openly
defying rulings by constitutional court
magistrates who are courageously de-
fending the institutions of justice that
are under assault, and the police are ig-
noring orders of the attorney general.
In Egypt, President al Sisi has locked
up tens of thousands of political oppo-
nents and other dissidents. In Turkey,
President Erdogan has done the same.
President Trump has praised both lead-
ers.
In Brazil, President Bolsonaro, a
former military officer, has vowed to
open up the Amazon to mining, log-
ging, and agribusiness. He wants to
give the police a free hand to use lethal
force with impunity. He is gearing up
to crack down on civil liberties. The
White House has applauded.
No one disputes that the United
States has experienced national emer-
gencies, when we faced a potentially
existential threat. Pearl Harbor and
the 9/11 attacks are obvious examples.
The Cuban missile crisis could have
been.
A future deadly disease pandemic
that infects thousands of Americans
and rapidly spreads out of control
might qualify.
The President talks as if the sky is
falling in Texas, but any rational per-
son recognizes that the situation on
our southwest border is not remotely a
national emergency. To call Central
American families fleeing poverty and
violence a threat to the security of the
world’s wealthiest, most powerful
country is an embarrassment, espe-
cially when the Border Patrol’s own
data shows the number of migrants ap-
prehended at the southern border has
plummeted over the past 10 years.
The White House, grasping for argu-
ments to justify the President’s broken
campaign promise that Mexico would
pay for his wall, has played fast and
loose with the facts in a desperate at-
tempt to incite fear among the Amer-
ican people.
The President and Vice President
have shamelessly trumpeted all kinds
of wildly inaccurate and grossly mis-
leading statistics about migrants, ter-
rorists, asylum applicants, unaccom-
panied children, and illegal drugs that
are contradicted by their own agencies.
The White House says thousands of
migrant terrorists have been appre-
hended, falsely suggesting they were
stopped at the Mexican border. Almost
none of them were.
We face a far greater threat from al
Qaeda and ISIS using social media to
inspire extremists already in the U.S.
or Canada to commit terrorist acts.
The last thing anyone would do who is
genuinely concerned about terrorism is
to shut down the government and with-
hold funding from the very agencies
whose job it is to track down and ar-
rest those people.
The real threat to our national secu-
rity is shutting down the government,
furloughing 10,000 State Department
employees, telling our embassies to
cancel programs and our diplomats to
stay home.
While we come to grips with prac-
tical ways of strengthening our borders
so we can more humanely and effi-
ciently process migrants who request
asylum, which we must do, we must
also stay focused on the real threats to
our national security.
We need our embassies at full
strength. We need our diplomats in the
room with their European, Russian,
Chinese, South Korean, Central Amer-
ican, Middle Eastern, and African
counterparts.
We need to strengthen NATO and our
other alliances, so we can rely on our
allies and partners to support us in re-
sponding to real national emergencies.
We need to expand our cyber secu-
rity, nonproliferation, international
broadcasting and other public diplo-
macy and internet freedom programs,
military education and training, mari-
time security, law enforcement, and
other international assistance pro-
grams. Instead, because of the Presi-
dent’s obsession with the wall, these
and other State Department programs
are stuck in neutral, and the people
who implement them are at home.
We need to act like a superpower at
the United Nations, in NATO, and in
the many other regional organizations
where decisions are made that directly
affect our interests and our security.
None of this is possible during a gov-
ernment shutdown, a shutdown that
with each passing day erodes our de-
mocracy, weakens our global leader-
ship, and threatens our security.
We all know this. The American peo-
ple know this. The world knows this.
The President needs to reopen the gov-
ernment and start acting like the de-
fender of the Constitution and of our
national security that the country
needs.
I again urge the Republican leader to
let us vote on the bipartisan, six-bill
minibus, and when it passes, he and the
entire Republican Caucus should urge
the President to sign it.
That is our job, as an independent,
coequal branch of government: to vote,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA6.004 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S91
January 9, 2019
to appropriate the funds so the Federal
Government can work for the Amer-
ican people. It is not our job to sit on
the sidelines while the wheels of gov-
ernment grind to a halt because the
President is recklessly holding it hos-
tage.
Mr. President, I suggest the absence
of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Montana.
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, I rise
today to set the record straight on the
President’s border wall—quite frankly,
something he didn’t talk about much
last night during his speech to the
country. But the truth is, this is where
the problem is. So I want to talk about
it a little bit today.
The President made it crystal clear—
dozens of times, in fact—that he was
prepared to shut down the government
in order to get the $5.7 billion for the
wall, leading up to that speech last
night. So here we are today, day 19 of
President Trump’s shutdown. Political
gamesmanship? Well, that is nothing
new in Washington, DC, but the fact is,
our debates need to be grounded in
facts. So here are the facts:
The President’s demand for $5.7 bil-
lion for a border wall is tall in hyper-
bole and wide on theatrics but short on
facts.
Last night, the President said that
Congress has refused to provide the re-
sources needed to secure the border.
That is not true. In fiscal year 2018,
Congress gave the President $1.3 billion
to construct fencing and other fixed
structures along the southern border. I
know so because I worked side by side
with my Republican colleagues to
write that bill. Today, not one of those
projects is under construction—not
one.
Strong border security is much more
than physical barriers. Congress appro-
priated $21 billion for immigration en-
forcement and border security in last
year’s Homeland Security Appropria-
tions Act. That includes money to ex-
pand manpower, increase technology,
and utilize communication services
and resources on top of funding for
physical barriers.
Here is another fact: Hard narcotics
likes meth and cocaine and opioids are
not coming over the border in
backpacks; they are coming through
our ports in cars and trucks. We have
the technology to fix that, so let’s ap-
propriate the money toward real solu-
tions at our ports to stop the drugs
from entering our country, not $5.7 bil-
lion for a wall.
So, again, let’s stick to the facts. De-
spite having more than $21 billion in
border security and immigration en-
forcement funding, including funds for
physical barriers, the President has
shut down the government to demand
another $5.7 billion exclusively for a
wall.
One would think to ask, what would
you possibly spend $5.7 billion on, espe-
cially after already having $21 billion
to spend on border security and immi-
gration enforcement? And we did ask
him that. We asked him for a plan. We
told the President and Homeland Secu-
rity Secretary Nielsen that if they are
going to break their promise to have
Mexico pay for the wall and use Amer-
ican taxpayer dollars, they ought to
produce a plan of action.
The plan we received in late Decem-
ber was incomplete—no analysis of al-
ternative technologies, no analysis on
the impact to communities, to land-
owners, to wildlife. And that plan only
asked for $1.6 billion, not the $5.7 bil-
lion the President is now demanding.
The President has also failed to ad-
dress private property rights and emi-
nent domain. What is he going to do if
a family refuses to sell off wide tracts
of their farm or ranch to allow a wall
to go through and split their ranch, di-
vide their ranch? Are families going to
cede their water and mineral rights? Is
the administration prepared to enter
into good-faith negotiations with lit-
erally thousands of families? And do we
know how much that is going to cost
the American taxpayer?
These questions need answers. Yet,
with these questions still unanswered,
there are folks in this body, the U.S.
Senate, who are prepared to write a
$5.7 billion check to the President right
now.
So here we are on day 19 of the Presi-
dent’s shutdown. During the Presi-
dent’s speech last night, he was right
about one thing: There is a crisis tak-
ing shape in our country. But it is not
the crisis on the southern border that
he is trying to manufacture. As a re-
sult of the President’s shutdown, there
are 19,000 border agents today who are
working without pay. There are 51,000
TSA agents working without pay.
These are hard-working folks. They
have families, they have mortgages,
and they are being forced by the Presi-
dent to secure our country’s borders
and ports and airports while not know-
ing when their next paycheck will ar-
rive.
I have heard from Border Patrol
agents who moved across the country
at their own expense so that they could
be stationed along Montana’s northern
border. How have they been repaid for
their willingness to serve? Well, they
are not being paid. Not only do they
have to absorb the moving costs, but
now they have to pay for rent and
cover other essential costs without a
paycheck, and they are continually
wondering when they will get paid
next.
Look, at the end of last year, CBP’s
recruitment efforts finally started to
bear fruit. For the first time in years,
CBP began to achieve gains in hiring
border agents. This shutdown not only
could, but I believe it will set back
those efforts dramatically. Who could
blame a family for passing on a job
that could force you to work for free?
The President talked last night of a
‘‘sacred duty to America.’’ I can think
of few things more un-American than
withholding pay from someone after an
honest day’s work.
But it is not just those stationed at
the border and at our airports who are
hurting because of the President’s
shutdown. I am going to give a small
sample of letters and emails I have re-
ceived from the folks from the great
State of Montana since the shutdown
began.
Ronald from western Montana says
this:
I spoke to my son, a career Coast Guard
member. He tells me that the Coast Guard is
being directed to continue their duties with-
out being paid due to this ridiculous shut-
down. Senator, that is not right! Why do
these brave men and women have to con-
tinue to risk their lives without being paid?
My boy is worried about being evicted from
his apartment with two young daughters and
a wife because they won’t receive their hous-
ing allowance! Please help fix this un-Amer-
ican situation.
Shilo from Bozeman writes:
I and other federal employees have been
converted into political footballs for par-
tisan politicians. My Christmas vacation was
canceled and pay has been suspended during
a time when some of us need the money the
most. We are being disadvantaged and made
to suffer while the comfortable and blithely
unaffected cling to their arbitrary political
ideologies and refuse to compromise.
Daren from northeast Montana:
I have a farm equipment loan that is at a
standstill because the USDA is not picking
up the phone. I have contractors and vendors
who are waiting to be paid. The impact of
this shutdown will last long after it ends.
Debra from Indian Country:
My daughters are federal employees proud-
ly serving the Northern Cheyenne Tribe in
Montana through the Indian Health Service.
My daughters are both enrolled members of
the Northern Cheyenne Tribe, and both are
single, hardworking mothers. My grand-
daughters are afraid their moms won’t be
able to pay the bills or buy groceries if the
paychecks don’t arrive. Morale is horrid in
Lame Deer.
Please stop this immoral shutdown. It is
very unfair to hardworking people like my
daughters. They must work but will not get
a paycheck this Friday if the shutdown con-
tinues.
Mr. President, this is what a crisis
looks like, and this is a crisis you have
created.
The President barely mentioned the
wall last night in his address to the Na-
tion. Yet we are here on day 19 of a
government shutdown that is a direct
result of his wish to build a wall from
sea to shining sea.
It is time for the Senate to be the
Senate. It is time for the folks in this
body to quit making decisions based on
politics and start making them based
on facts.
The facts in this case are clear. There
is no plan for $5.7 billion for a border
wall, Mexico will not pay for it, and
the dysfunction of this administration
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA6.005 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S92 January 9, 2019
is causing real turmoil in the lives of
800,000 workers and their families.
I am calling on the majority to bring
some common sense to this situation
and to stand behind the bipartisan leg-
islation that Republicans and Demo-
crats have passed over the last several
months—over the last month in par-
ticular—to reopen the government and
put an end to this crisis.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
GARDNER). The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise
today to deliver a message to the hard-
working agriculture producers in Ne-
braska and across America who feed
the world.
At the end of last Congress, the
House and Senate came together and
passed a 5-year farm bill that provided
the certainty and the predictability
our farmers and ranchers needed dur-
ing tough economic times. President
Trump signed this important piece of
legislation into law.
As a proud member of the Senate Ag
Committee, I had the privilege of
working on this legislation and secur-
ing key provisions for Nebraskans.
Among these were measures that pro-
tected crop insurance, streamlined
trade promotion programs, bolstered
opportunities for producers to use pre-
cision ag technology, and unleashed
broadband deployment throughout
rural America.
Because of this bill, folks in agri-
culture were feeling more confident
about planning for the future. Now we
find ourselves in the middle of a partial
government shutdown, and there is
some anxiety in farm country as fund-
ing to the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture has lapsed. In that regard, I
want to provide some important up-
dates to producers who are concerned.
The year-round sale of E15 is critical,
and it is a critical issue for Nebraska’s
farmers, renewable fuel producers, and
our rural communities. Our State has
25 ethanol plants that employ more
than 1,300 hard-working Nebraskans
with high-paying jobs, which are most-
ly located in rural communities, but
for far too long, an outdated regulation
that banned the sale of E15 during sum-
mer months has held our communities
back.
Here in the Senate, I worked closely
with a group of farm State colleagues
to demonstrate the benefits of higher
blends of ethanol fuel. I also cham-
pioned bipartisan legislation, the Con-
sumer and Fuel Retailer Choice Act, to
allow for the sale of E15 year-round.
Our efforts got President Trump’s at-
tention, and I was proud to support
him last fall when he announced that
he would direct the EPA to initiate the
year-round sale of E15.
Through our continued efforts in the
Senate and the action by President
Trump to follow through on his prom-
ise, rural America is on the way to a
major victory.
This week, some reports surfaced
saying that the partial government
shutdown is going to delay EPA’s rule-
making process for year-round E15. I
would like to reassure our fuel pro-
ducers that this is simply not true.
In fact, the EPA spokesman issued
the following statement, saying:
This is a priority for both President Trump
and Acting Administrator Wheeler. The on-
going partial shutdown will not impede
EPA’s ability to keep to our deadline.
I was pleased to learn that this rule-
making process is still on track, and I
want to make sure Nebraskans are
aware of that fact as well.
Additionally, Secretary of Agri-
culture Sonny Perdue announced he is
extending the deadline for agriculture
producers to apply for payments under
the Market Facilitation Program.
These payments are provided by the
USDA’s Trade Mitigation Program,
which was a good-faith effort that rec-
ognized the economic hardship of our
farmers and ranchers and the problems
they were facing.
I have heard from Nebraskans who
have applied for this program and who
have received payments. Per Secretary
Perdue’s recent announcement, the
Agency will extend the application
deadline for the period of time equiva-
lent to the number of days that the
Farm Service Agency offices were
closed during the shutdown. This
should assist farmers who are inter-
ested in applying for the program but
have been unable to do so during this
partial shutdown. I understand the
concerns of Nebraskans who are sin-
cerely worried because USDA Farm
Service Agency offices are closed.
Agriculture is the economic engine of
the State of Nebraska. Across the
State and in rural areas throughout
our Nation, farmers are thinking about
spring planting. They want to be able
to plan ahead and make decisions
about the future of their businesses.
These hardships are real, and they are
impacting Nebraska families. That is
why I am continuing to have conversa-
tions with my colleagues about how we
can come together in a sensible way
that properly secures our border and
ends these lapses in government fund-
ing.
Nebraskans know full well that I
have long supported securing our bor-
der because it is a critical national se-
curity issue. I have visited the south-
ern border, and I have spoken with our
border agents. I have seen areas where
a wall is necessary and other areas
where technology or adding more bor-
der patrol is appropriate. Unfortu-
nately, we have seen border security,
an issue that has long had support from
Republicans and Democrats, become
deeply politicized.
As we continue to look and work to-
ward a way forward, I want to keep
people updated and informed about the
steps that our government continues to
take to provide certainty, stability,
and peace of mind to Nebraskans.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. LEE).
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, yester-
day I left my home in Cleveland and
kissed my wife good-bye and headed to
the airport early in the morning. I
went to gates A, B, and C in the Cleve-
land Airport and talked to the TSA
agents who are all working and work-
ing without pay.
Then, when I got to Washington—I
flew into National Airport—I went
straight to a building in Arlington
where I talked to cafeteria workers.
They are Federal contract workers who
serve food at our Smithsonian muse-
ums and other Federal facilities. They
don’t work for the Federal Govern-
ment. Their paychecks don’t come
from the Federal Government. They
are contracted through a company and
then paid by these companies. They
have lost their jobs during the Trump
shutdown.
These workers, making $12, $13, $14—
some with some seniority make $15.
They are union. They make 2 or 3 dol-
lars more than the nonunion com-
parable workers. But they are not get-
ting paid.
Unlike the 800,000 Federal workers,
some working without pay, some fur-
loughed—unlike them, if history is a
judge, they will not get paid those lost
wages. So these are people making $12,
$13, $14 an hour who have already lost
2 weeks of work because of the Trump
shutdown, and unless Congress acts,
they have no prospect to get that back
pay. Again, their wages are at that
level.
Then, last night, to sort of cap the
day, in my apartment here I watched
the President of the United States talk
about his wall and dig in a little more.
You know, I wish President Trump
would talk to the workers he is hurting
with this shutdown. I wish that he
would go out and, as President Lincoln
used to say, get his ‘‘public opinion
bath’’ and listen to these workers; that
he would leave the White House or
Mar-a-Lago, where he spends most of
his time, and talk to these workers I
talked to yesterday—the TSA workers
in Cleveland who are working without
pay. The anxiety levels are going up
and up and up for these workers be-
cause this coming Saturday they will
miss their first paycheck—and then be-
yond that too. This also affects the
food service workers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:41 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.023 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S93
January 9, 2019
Last week, President Trump said—
imagine this, a billionaire President—
his shutdown, the Trump shutdown,
which he proudly, as Commander in
Chief, said: ‘‘I am proud of this shut-
down.’’ Last week, he said: ‘‘This shut-
down has a higher purpose than next
week’s pay.’’ Imagine that, a billion-
aire President, living in this beautiful
house paid for by taxpayers and having
his estate in Mar-a-Lago, and he would
say: ‘‘This shutdown,’’ this Trump
shutdown, ‘‘has a higher purpose than
next week’s pay.’’
I wonder if he would tell that to TSA
workers, the ones I met in Cleveland,
including Aaron Bankston, who told
me:
If you’re the only breadwinner in your
family, and to have your kids looking up at
you, it’s hard to tell them, we don’t have
anything to put food on the table, that’s the
hard part.
We just have to get us back working. We’re
working diligently over here, trying to make
sure we’re securing America.
Mr. President, tell the cafeteria
workers I talked with there is a higher
purpose than their week’s pay because,
remember, it is not just Federal em-
ployees feeling the pain. There are also
these contractors. There are 800,000
Federal employees. We think—we can’t
get the number from the government
yet—I am not sure the administration
wants to tell us these numbers. There
are thousands and thousands and thou-
sands of contract workers making $10,
$12, $15 an hour—making a little more
if they are lucky enough to have a
union, but some making as little as $8
or $9 or $10 an hour.
A lot of Americans don’t realize that
thousands of janitors and cafeteria
workers and security guards are out of
work because of the President. You
know, it is all kinds of Federal employ-
ees. It is people who process tax re-
turns at the IRS. It is people who are
helping farmers adjust to the new farm
bill we passed proudly—Senators ROB-
ERTS and STABENOW and a bunch of oth-
ers. It is about people wanting to get a
mortgage, and they can’t get it ap-
proved at FHA because of this shut-
down. It is also people making $8 and
$10 and $12 an hour. Unless we do some-
thing, these workers will not get the
backpay they should get because they
are employed by private contractors.
They have no way, at $12 and $15 an
hour—without pay, they have no way
of making up their lost hours and lost
wages. I am working with a relatively
new Minnesota Senator, Ms. SMITH, on
legislation to try to come up with a so-
lution to get these workers backpay,
the way that workers who are actual
Federal employees get backpay. Fun-
damentally, it comes down to respect-
ing the dignity of work. That means re-
specting the dignity of work and that
these workers make a decent wage
with decent benefits.
Missing one paycheck may not seem
like a lot to the billionaire President
and the multimillionaire Cabinet with
their massive investment portfolio.
I will say that again. Missing one 2-
week paycheck or two 2-week pay-
checks or even, if the President gets
his way, three 2-week paychecks may
not seem like a lot to a billionaire
President and a multimillionaire Cabi-
net with their massive investment
portfolios, but it means a whole lot to
these people. Missing a paycheck is a
big, big deal that the President of the
United States clearly either doesn’t
understand or doesn’t care about.
The President doesn’t understand
that working people can’t just send a
letter to creditors saying: Excuse me
from paying rent this month or paying
my mortgage or paying for my medica-
tions. You can’t put groceries or gas in
the car with an IOU.
One of those cafeteria workers told
me in Arlington: I have to pay rent. I
have other bills. I have a college stu-
dent in community college. He needs
help with his books. He said: President
Trump, I am asking would you please
open the government. Everyone is
going through hardship. We really
don’t want this wall you want.
I am guessing the President of the
United States, the billionaire Presi-
dent, jetting back and forth between
the White House and Mar-a-Lago in
Florida, will never talk to not just
these workers I talked to in Virginia or
those TSA employees in Cleveland—I
am sure he will not talk to them, but
I hope he will talk to some people like
them.
He spends his time in his resort, but
he doesn’t see them. To him, they are
invisible, but MITCH MCCONNELL can
see them. MITCH MCCONNELL’s office is
down the hall on the right about 100
feet. I have shared on this floor before
how lobbyists, during the tax bill,
when President Trump and the major-
ity in the Senate and the majority in
the House gave a $1.5 trillion tax cut—
and 70 percent of that tax cut went to
the richest 1 percent, people like them-
selves, the President, the Cabinet,
many Members of the Senate, many
Members of the House. I documented it
to show—as I looked out this door and
opened these doors, I showed this is the
place where the lobbyists go in and out
of the majority leader’s office, talking
to him about their special interest leg-
islation.
So I ask—right now, Senator MCCON-
NELL could come out of his office, and
he could walk down this hall. I would
be happy to open the door for him, if
that is not contrary to Senate rules. I
would be happy to open the door for
him and welcome him. He could right
now vote to reopen the government and
get this process moving and tell the
President of the United States. He also
could go to Virginia. He also could go
to the airport in Louisville or Cin-
cinnati, and he could listen to their
stories, but he doesn’t seem to be lis-
tening either because I am guessing if
he did, he might be a little more in-
clined to let us vote to get these work-
ers back on the job.
I am calling on Senator MCCONNELL
to come out of that office, to walk
down this hall, and to come here and
begin the process of opening the gov-
ernment.
Let’s talk for a minute about what
the President said last night. The
President continued his record of tell-
ing lie after lie after lie after lie, mis-
leading the people he is supposed to
serve. Facts matter. So when you hear
the President say we need a wall, re-
member that it is a fact that illegal
border crossings are at historic lows. It
is not fake news. My wife says if it is
fake, it is not news, and if it is news, it
is not fake. It is a fact that border
crossings are at historic lows.
Another fact, border crossings are
down about 80 percent since 2000. An-
other fact, the President’s wall would
do nothing to stop opioids coming into
our communities. First, most illegal
opioids are seized at legal points of
entry, not tracked over some remote
area of Texas. Fact, the shutdown
makes it harder for Customs and Bor-
der Protection to do their jobs inter-
cepting those opioids.
Another fact, last year we passed the
INTERDICT Act. I worked with my
colleague from Ohio, Senator PORTMAN,
and Senator MARKEY from Massachu-
setts on a bipartisan bill to get Cus-
toms and Border Protection the screen-
ing devices they need to test for
opioids. Why would we focus on the
President’s vanity project, building
this wall? A promise he made—remem-
ber his promise? ‘‘I will build the wall,
and the Mexicans will pay for it.’’ Well,
he is now asking American taxpayers,
over time, to pay $25 or $30 billion.
Why would we focus on the Presi-
dent’s vanity project instead of getting
the agents and technology they need?
We can do this with agents, tech-
nology, helicopters, and all the things
we need to do to protect the border be-
cause that is what we want to do. We
don’t want this vanity project. We
want to protect the border.
Another fact, most undocumented
immigrants aren’t committing crimes.
In fact, there are 56 percent fewer
criminal convictions of undocumented
immigrants than of native-born Tex-
ans. So a native-born Texan is more
likely, percentagewise, to commit a
crime than an undocumented person
living in Texas.
Keep in mind the facts of what this
shutdown is costing the American peo-
ple; 800,000 Federal workers are going
without a paycheck; 420,000 of them are
on the job without pay; thousands of
contract workers, custodians, cafeteria
workers, janitors not only are not get-
ting a paycheck, but they probably
never will for this lost work.
Here is another fact. The President
and Senator MCCONNELL could end the
shutdown right now. The Senate passed
a bill unanimously to fund the govern-
ment in December. That is a fact. We
passed it. It is a fact. It was unani-
mous. It is a fact. The House passed
bills to fund the government last week.
It is a fact. Senator MCCONNELL right
now could come out of that office, walk
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.028 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S94 January 9, 2019
down this hall, and Senator MCCON-
NELL could put those House bills on the
floor right now, and we could vote to
end this shutdown. We could send them
to the President’s desk, and if the
President is going to continue his van-
ity project and continue this Trump
shutdown and he vetoes it, we have the
ability to override it.
The President doesn’t tell us what to
do. He seems to be telling the Repub-
lican majority what to do day after
day. I applaud those who stood up to
him recently and said they want to
open the government, but it is also a
fact that this President said: ‘‘I am
proud to shut down the government.’’
The Commander in Chief of the
United States of America—the Com-
mander in Chief—the top person in this
country’s government said: ‘‘I am
proud to shut down the government.’’
Facts matter. The fact is, President
Trump, once again, as he betrayed the
General Motors workers in Lordstown,
as he betrayed the General Motors sup-
pliers—all the companies that supply
the building of the Chevy Cruz—he has
betrayed these Federal workers; he has
betrayed these contract workers who
are making $10, $12, and $15 an hour;
and he has betrayed the American
worker.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
ROUNDS). The Senator from Florida.
S. 1
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, what is
before us right now is S. 1. For those
who are here today watching or who
are at home or will watch this later
and are wondering what the Senate is
doing, other than coming down here
and giving speeches, what we are try-
ing to do is start debate on a bill, on S.
1.
S. 1 is the Senate effort to respond
specifically not just to general events
that are happening in the Middle East
but, in particular, the decision made a
few weeks ago that the United States
would be leaving Syria and our pres-
ence there.
At the time when the decision was
made, I told everybody I thought it was
a bad idea. A lot of people agreed, and
there are a lot of reasons why it was a
bad idea. Although I do think it is im-
portant anytime we ask the American
people to send their young men and
women abroad—in the case of Syria, it
is about 2,000 special operators working
alongside tens of thousands of Kurdish
and Syrian democratic forces. Anytime
we spend money or send Americans
abroad to risk their lives, the Amer-
ican people deserve for us to go to
them and justify why it is we should be
doing it or continue to do it. That is
certainly the case with Syria.
So I don’t agree with the decision,
but I do think it has given the Senate
and those of us who disagree with that
decision an opportunity to go out and
tell people why it is that it is impor-
tant. That is a broader topic, and I will
have more to say about that in the
days to come, but one of the reasons
why it is important is because the U.S.
withdrawal from Syria will have a dra-
matic impact on the security of Israel.
Now, again, anytime we ask the
American people to support another
country with money or diplomatic sup-
port or anything that it might be—
weapons—we should justify it. We
should never take for granted why it is
that it is important that we support
that other country.
In the case of Israel, at a time when
very few things enjoy bipartisan sup-
port, support for Israel has wide bipar-
tisan support in Congress and across
the country, and rightfully so. Our sup-
port of the State of Israel is founded
both on morality and our national in-
terest.
On the issue of morality, the State of
Israel is very unique. It was founded
for a very specific purpose in the after-
math of the holocaust, in which mil-
lions of Jews lost their lives. It was
vowed that never again would the Jew-
ish people not have a place to go and
seek refuge or live in a place of peace
and security. The State of Israel was
established to be that homeland for the
Jewish people. It is unique in the fact
that it was given birth by an inter-
national organization. It is unique in
the world in that regard.
The second reason we should support
Israel is because it is in our national
interest. Israel is everything we wish
more countries in the Middle East and
around the world were. They are a pro-
American, free enterprise democracy. I
would ask you, for a moment only, to
imagine what the world would be like,
how much easier our foreign policy
would be if there were more countries
in that part of the world that were pro-
American, free enterprise democracies.
We have one, the Jewish State of
Israel. That is why we should support
it.
From its very birth, Israel has faced
threats to its very existence, but I
would say today that the threats it
faces are the greatest ones it has had
to confront in almost a half century.
The impetus for much of that threat
comes from one place, and that is Iran,
a country which almost as a matter of
course as a government chants ‘‘Death
to America’’ and ‘‘Death to Israel’’ on
a regular basis. It is one of the stated
purposes of that government, to de-
stroy the State of Israel, but they
aren’t just words; they are actions.
I have a map of Iran and Israel. Of
course, notice that Israel is the tiny
little area on this map. At its nar-
rowest point, Israel is 9 miles wide.
This is not a large country in terms of
the map area. It is unreal how much of
the world’s attention, both from inter-
national organizations and inter-
national debates, focuses on this one
tiny country, but there it is, the very
small nation that you see right there
in yellow.
There is Iran. It is, clearly, larger in
terms of on the map and in reality.
Iran isn’t simply a rhetorical enemy of
Israel; it is taking action to encircle
Israel and to threaten its security.
It begins with engagement in its mis-
sile program. Iran is developing and
has developed ballistic missiles with a
range that reaches every part of Israel.
Here is the bottom line: Iran can lodge
ballistic missiles that reach any city in
Israel right now, which is why their nu-
clear ambitions are so dangerous.
Imagine that at some point in the fu-
ture, Iran is able to attach a nuclear
warhead to one of those ballistic mis-
siles—a country whose leaders on a
regular basis chant ‘‘Death to Israel’’
with a nuclear weapon that can reach
Israel. Well, that is a proposition no-
body wants to see come about. That is
why the Iranian ambition to have nu-
clear weapons is so dangerous. They al-
ready possess that as it is today. But
they don’t simply directly target
Israel; they also—I believe directly—
they hide behind surrogates in the re-
gion, who do their bidding. These sur-
rogates have for many years been
found in southern Lebanon among
Hezbollah. We will talk about them in
a moment. They are a surrogate that
works at the behest of the Iranian Gov-
ernment.
There have been conflicts—in fact,
wars—between Israel and Hezbollah in
which there have been massive mili-
tary attacks coming from Lebanon,
rocket strikes into Israel and Israel’s
response. The last one was in the 2005–
2006 time period, and it could happen
again. In fact, I believe the conditions
are ripe for it to happen again. It could
happen at any moment for a variety of
different reasons that will have to be
part of another speech because time
doesn’t permit. Suffice it to say, it is a
dangerous proposition.
How does Hezbollah get this weap-
onry? They get this weaponry from
Iran. It is shipped through Syria. The
U.S. disengagement from Syria will
make it easier for Iran and the IRGC
and Hezbollah to bring those weapons
into southern Lebanon to strike at
Israel at some point in the future. In
addition to that, Iran is also present on
the ground in Syria, which, as you see,
borders Israel. So not only does Iran
help Hezbollah, but Hezbollah and Iran
are in Syria, on Israel’s very border in
the same region in the south, and a
U.S. withdrawal will make it easier for
Iran to grow their presence there. So
now Israel faces a threat from
Hezbollah, from southern Lebanon, and
a threat from Iran and Hezbollah in
Syria.
We also see that the Iranian influ-
ence has grown in Iraq. The second
leading political movement in the cur-
rent Iraqi Parliament is a Shia group,
directly aligned in Iran, with growing
political influence. They want to kick
America out of there. Believe me, they
want to turn Iraq into another base of
operation from which Israel can be tar-
geted.
Down here in Yemen, the Houthis are
an agent of Iran. You may say: Well,
that is kind of far. It isn’t in the sense
that those missiles and rockets could
reach there as well, but it also allows
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.029 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S95
January 9, 2019
them the opportunity to shut off tran-
sit here at this chokepoint on the bot-
tom of the Red Sea, which could di-
rectly impact, ultimately, the ability
for trade and commerce for Israel and
for the region writ large.
Obviously, we see a growing Iranian
presence in Bahrain and Kuwait.
Suffice it to say that Iran is carrying
out an effort to grow its influence and
encircle who it views as its enemies—
the Sunnis in Saudi Arabia but more
than anyone else, the Israelis.
This is not the only threat, by the
way, that Israel faces. It also faces
growing violence and resistance in the
Judea-Samaria region—often called by
some the West Bank—and Gaza, where
there have been upticks in violence.
I failed to mention that in southern
Lebanon, Hezbollah routinely builds
tunnels from Lebanon into Israel. The
purpose of that is to be able to sneak
fighters right into Israel through those
tunnels so they can conduct commando
raids and kill civilians—not military
personnel but civilians.
The threats Israel is facing are grow-
ing every single day.
I want to talk specifically for a mo-
ment about the missile threat to
Israel. Here are the ranges of these
rockets. There was an Israel-Hezbollah
war. The next one will be far deadlier.
It will be far deadlier for a couple of
reasons.
The first is that Hezbollah can build
these rockets; they no longer need to
ship them in. Over the last decade and
a half, they have built the capability to
construct these rockets themselves.
The second is that they have more of
them. That matters because Israel has
a very good missile defense system, but
you can overwhelm a missile defense
system with volume, meaning 100 rock-
ets are launched, and you knock down
99 of them, but 1 of them gets through
and hits a population center and kills
10,000 people. Hezbollah now has that
capability.
These rockets are also precision-
guided. They are not just lobbing them
over and they hit what they hit. They
can launch precision-guided munitions
to target specific areas within Israel.
The ranges of these rockets they now
possess are stunning. As an example, if
you look at this little ring here, it tells
you how many seconds it would take
from launch to impact, meaning 10 to
25 seconds before they could hit, for ex-
ample, the area of Nazareth and Tibe-
rias. Moving farther down, you see 35
to 50 seconds. Farther down, around
Tel Aviv, 75 seconds. Jerusalem, just
south of that is probably another 10
seconds added, 85 seconds. A hundred
and twenty seconds. A hundred and
fifty-five seconds.
Imagine for a moment that you are
visiting Israel or live in Israel or are a
student studying there—whatever it
might be—and one of these launches
comes in, a barrage of 1,000 rockets
launched. You literally have 35 to 50
seconds—less than 2 minutes. There is
no country in the world that can mobi-
lize people to get out of the way in 2
minutes. These are their population
centers. This is the threat that faces
them right now, and that is just from
Lebanon. Imagine that same capability
I just described also existing in Syria.
Imagine it all being launched simulta-
neously from Syria, from Lebanon, and
from Iran. Now you begin to see the
construct of a plan to destroy this tiny
nation and why it is so critical that
the United States support them in
fighting for their existence. The threat
is extraordinary.
There is one more element to it.
There is now a global effort called boy-
cott, divestment, and sanctions, BDS.
It is designed to wage economic war on
Israel—in essence, to pressure compa-
nies to boycott Israeli companies and
people who do business in Israel until
they stop, to pressure investment funds
and banks to no longer do investments
in anything related to Israel, and to
pressure governments around the world
to sanction Israel. That is what this ef-
fort is about. It is to undermine them
economically as well. It is economic
warfare and being waged at every level.
It is working. People are adopting this
around the world, and there are some
who advocate for it here. We have re-
cently seen in the news a number of
companies that decided not to do busi-
ness in certain parts of Israel because
of the pressure from that movement.
By the way, I would point out that
they are not just boycotting the econ-
omy; there are people who won’t do
concerts, and they won’t play the
Israeli sports teams. They want the
Israeli Government kicked out of the
international committee for different
sports, including soccer—the Olympic
committee. They boycott cultural
events. They boycott universities.
They are pressuring universities to cut
ties with any university in Israel over
all this. It is an effort to destroy Israel
culturally and economically in a way
that works in combination with the ef-
fort to destroy it physically. It is a
very real threat.
We have tried to confront both of
these issues in bipartisan legislation. I
have up here a chart, and I will talk
about it in a moment. Twenty-six
States in this country have tried to do
something to condemn BDS. I will get
to that in a moment before I tell you
the ‘‘what.’’
I told you why it is so important that
we stand with Israel and the threats
that Israel faces. Now I will describe
what this bill does. This bill has four
components to it. One deals with the
human rights violation in Syria. We
will discuss that further, perhaps to-
morrow. The second component of this
bill deals with Jordan, which is one of
the neighbors that Israel has that is
actually critical to its security. One of
the best things that happened to Israel
security was the deal with Jordan and
Egypt that allowed them, at their pe-
riphery, to have countries that at least
recognize them and are not out to de-
stroy them. Jordan faces its own
threats from some of the same actors,
by the way. And add ISIS to that.
The other two elements are we took
these two bills that have bipartisan
support—cosponsored by Republicans
and Democrats—we combined them
with the other two bills, which also
had such support, into one bill. That is
S. 1. We viewed it as an opportunity for
the Senate and for Congress to weigh
in on foreign policy at a time when we
believe that all of the threats to Israel
that I just described are made worse by
the decision to withdraw from Syria.
That is the bill that is before us.
Today, I want to talk about the two
components that impact Israel di-
rectly. The first is basically the United
States-Israel Security Assistance Au-
thorization Act. That is a fancy title
for a bill that I coauthored with my
very good friend and another strong
supporter of Israel, Senator CHRIS
COONS of Delaware, who sits on the
other side of the aisle. Again, I told
you this is a bipartisan issue.
This bill has 72 cosponsors here in
the Senate. It passed overwhelmingly
by a voice vote. We didn’t even have to
have a rollcall vote. It was just voice-
voted out, meaning there was unani-
mous consent—no one objected—on the
1st of August of last year. It passed in
the House, with an amendment, on
September 12. Then it was hotlined for
a potential voice vote here on October
11, 2018.
What does this bill do? The first
thing it does is it lays out a statement
of policy. Let me tell you why that is
important. People say: Statement of
policy words—why do they matter?
They matter in the region because one
of the things that would encourage
Hezbollah or any of Israel’s enemies to
perhaps attack it is the belief that the
United States is no longer as com-
mitted to Israel’s security as we once
were. They could miscalculate. They
read these headlines about one or two
people in America saying something
negative toward Israel, and they think
that somehow we are weakening in our
resolve. I know that sounds silly to us,
but to people involved in that over
there, it is not. They read into this,
and they miscalculate it. They make
errors. A miscalculation here could
lead to an all-out war that could cost
the lives of thousands of people and po-
tentially lead to the destruction of
Israel, along with other nations in the
process.
It is important for us to make very
clear that our commitment to Israel is
unwavering. It is especially important
in light of the decision to withdraw
from Syria because what a lot of these
countries—including Iran—are reading
into this is, U.S. commitment to the
Middle East is no longer very strong.
Not only are they not committed to
being involved in the region, they are
actually withdrawing any of the assets
they could be using to be supportive of
their allies in the region.
So these statements of policy are im-
portant. What we put in this bill lays
out a statement of policy that says:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.031 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S96 January 9, 2019
It shall be the policy of the United States
to provide assistance to the Government of
Israel in order to support funding for cooper-
ative programs to develop, produce, and pro-
cure missile, rocket, projectile, and other de-
fense capabilities to help Israel meets its se-
curity needs and to help develop and enhance
United States defense capabilities.
What that means is, this is a co-
operation. Israel may be developing
some of these technologies because
they have an immediate need. We
would benefit from that technology
too. If Israel develops the next genera-
tion of missile defense systems, we
would use that as well in the case
where we were threatened by it. That
is that statement of policy.
The bill also authorizes U.S. security
assistance in foreign military financ-
ing at no less than $3.3 billion a year
for the next decade. That, by the way,
is simply the language from a memo-
randum of understanding that was
signed by the Obama administration
and Israel. We put that in the statute,
and we authorized it.
This is very important. It extends a
war reserve stockpile authority and ex-
tends loan guarantees to Israel through
2023. Israel has never defaulted on a
U.S.-backed loan guarantee, and this
program helps provide rainy-day insur-
ance on Israel’s stability given the
many threats it is facing.
It authorizes the President to trans-
fer precision-guided munitions and re-
lated defense articles and services to
Israel as necessary for legitimate self-
defense. That means this weaponry
wouldn’t be sent, but it would be put
on reserve status—assuming it doesn’t
impact our readiness—and it would be
made available to Israel in case a war
broke out and their reserves were
quickly depleted. If they start running
out of rockets, munitions, and defense
apparatus, the United States has set
aside weaponry that we are ready to
rapidly send to them so they can de-
fend themselves. They pay for this. But
at least they know it is sitting there.
We don’t have to scramble to find it, it
takes 2 weeks to get there, and by
then, the war is over.
It has other requirements. It ex-
presses the sense of Congress that the
President should prescribe procedures
for rapidly acquiring and deploying
what we need to support production of
these precision-guided munitions for
our U.S. counterterror mission.
It requires the President to report no
later than 120 days to the appropriate
congressional committees on Israel’s
eligibility for the strategic trade au-
thorization exception to certain export
control licensing, including the reasons
as to why Israel has not yet been in-
cluded in the list of countries eligible
for the strategic trade authorization
exception.
This one is also very critical. This is
a new threat that is emerging. It au-
thorizes the President to enter into a
cooperative agreement—meaning it
benefits them and us—to counter un-
manned aerial vehicles and the threat
they pose. The reason for that is that
on February 10 of last year, an Iranian
drone was shot down by Israel. Every-
one has every reason to believe that
these unmanned aerial vehicles are the
next threat that will be deployed both
in the battlefield and potentially by
terrorists. We would work with Israel,
which faces an immediate threat, to
develop counters to that. Today, we
don’t have good counters to that.
Above all else, it makes one more
very clear policy statement that has
been the linchpin of our support for
Israel, which is that it is the policy of
the United States to ensure that Israel
maintains its ability to counter and de-
feat any credible conventional military
or emerging threat from any state or
possible coalition of states or from
nonstate actors while sustaining mini-
mal damage and casualties through the
use of superior military means pos-
sessed in sufficient quantities, includ-
ing weapons, command, control, com-
munication, intelligence, surveillance,
and reconnaissance capabilities that in
their technical characteristics are su-
perior in capability to those of such
other individual or possible coalition
states or nonstate actors.
Here is what this means: It is the pol-
icy of the United States to ensure that
Israel’s weapons and systems are better
than anyone else’s in the region. What-
ever anybody else has we will sell to
Israel and allow it to access and ac-
quire something better so that it will
always have an advantage. If anyone in
that region believes it could beat Israel
in a war, one will try to beat Israel in
a war. That was the history from its
very birth, and that was the lesson of
1967 and the lesson of 1973. We don’t
want that to happen again. That is
what this bill does. That is why it has
so much support. That is why it is so
important for us to move to debate on
this issue.
It also tackles this economic warfare.
What is included in this is a bill we
filed last year with Senator MANCHIN,
called the Combating BDS Act. By the
way, last year, the Banking chairman,
Senator CRAPO of Idaho, and the rank-
ing member, Senator BROWN of Ohio,
discharged this bill from their com-
mittee, and they didn’t even require a
hearing. They did it late last year after
running it by all of their members, and
we tried to pass it in the Senate by a
voice vote but were unable to because
of one Senator who blocked it.
Let me start by thanking Senators
CRAPO and BROWN for working hard to
advance this bill last year, as well as
for coauthoring with me last year the
new Hezbollah sanctions law, known as
the Hizballah International Financing
Prevention Amendments Act of 2018.
We strengthened the sanctions on
Hezbollah that we had passed in the 2
years previous.
First of all, let me tell you what it
doesn’t do. It does not outlaw BDS. If
you are an American company and you
want to boycott or divest from Israel,
this doesn’t make it illegal. It doesn’t
stop you from doing it. It only says
that if there is some city or county or
State in this country that wants to
support Israel, it has a right to say it
is not going to buy services or goods
from any company that is boycotting
or divesting from Israel. That is all it
does. It gives cities and counties like
these—26 States—the opportunity to
have their elected officials who respond
to the people of those States or cities
or counties who elected them to make
decisions that they are not going to do
business with people who don’t do busi-
ness with Israel and boycott Israel. In
essence, it allows us to boycott the
boycotters.
Some say that it is an infringement
on the First Amendment. First, I will
tell you that the First Amendment
protects speech and actions that func-
tion in the form of speech. This is not
an effort to silence speech nor is this
an effort, by the way, to defeat an ef-
fort per se. It is an effort to defend the
right to counterspeak. The First
Amendment is a two-way street. You
have a right to express your views on
something, but others have a right to
respond. You have a right to boycott a
country, and people have a right to
boycott you. That is what this law al-
lows them to do. It is that simple.
By the way, this is not some domes-
tic debate. They are not trying to in-
fluence some law that we are passing
here with BDS. They are not trying to
influence your opinions on a topic.
They are trying to influence the for-
eign policy of another country. This is
not traditional free speech. The courts
have weighed in on this in the past,
and the courts have given Congress and
the executive branch extraordinary dis-
cretion on the setting of foreign policy.
When a company weighs in on BDS, it
is not trying to influence a domestic
debate or a topic of opinion here in the
U.S. political system; it is trying to
punish a nation-state so that the state
changes its policies in another country.
There is an open question about
whether the First Amendment even
covers that. The bill basically says,
notwithstanding whatever is in the
bill, nothing in the bill shall be con-
strued to invade or to hurt anyone’s
First Amendment rights. So anyone
who hides behind the idea that this is
designed to silence speech isn’t being
truthful.
This does not outlaw BDS. If you
want to boycott or divest from Israel,
you can. It is legal. We are not out-
lawing that as that would be an in-
fringement. All we are saying is, if you
are going to boycott Israel, those who
support Israel will have a right to boy-
cott you. That includes cities and
counties and States that don’t want to
buy stuff from you. That is what this
bill does. That is why it enjoys this
broad bipartisan support.
Some have asked me to take it out of
this bill and have said it is the reason
we are not moving to it. At least, that
is what I heard earlier. Now there is
another reason. It is absurd. Vote
against it and then justify it, but if you
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.033 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S97
January 9, 2019
are trying to shield the boycotters,
that is the de facto support of BDS, in
my opinion, and I think it is important
for us to pass it.
I emphasize again that this was not
overly controversial 2 weeks ago. Look
at the list of people who supported this
bill last year: the majority leader, the
minority leader, the Foreign Relations
Committee chairman, the ranking
member of the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, the Senate Finance Committee
chairman, and the ranking member of
the Finance Committee. Democratic
and Republican leaders on multiple
committees and at the very top of this
Chamber support this bill. Yet, some-
how, we can’t even proceed to debate
on this bill.
You may say, ‘‘Well, wait until the
shutdown is over,’’ because that is the
argument that is being used now—that
we shouldn’t move to anything until
we deal with the shutdown. I don’t like
the shutdown. I hope it ends tonight or
tomorrow morning. Yet this is not just
any other issue. There is a credible ar-
gument to be made that there is a time
sensitivity to this because the enemies
of Israel aren’t sitting around, waiting.
This could happen at any moment.
These aren’t the kinds of things that
build up. Hezbollah’s desire to destroy
Israel is longstanding, and what they
choose to do about it will not wait for
the U.S. Senate to deal with other top-
ics. This is an immediate threat. It is
right before us, and it deserves our im-
mediate reaction.
This could rapidly escalate, but I am
not going to take up another 30 min-
utes to describe all of the scenarios
under which that could happen. Yet I
will give you one that is not out of the
realm of possibility. Now that they
know that the United States is going
to be withdrawing from Syria, the
Israelis could decide—and, I believe,
rightfully so—that for their own de-
fense, they will need to start attacking
even more inside Syria. Regarding
those supply lanes that Iran is using,
every time they see a truck with rock-
ets on it, they are going to blow up the
truck. Every time they see IRGC or
Hezbollah militias forming anywhere
near their border, they are going to hit
them. They are now going to step up
those attacks because we are not there
anymore. Iran is going to fill that void,
so they are going to have to step up
their attacks.
At some point, Iran and/or Hezbollah
is going to respond to those stepped-up
attacks with attacks of its own, at
which point Israel is going to respond
with even bigger attacks. Then the
cycle of escalation will begin. Then
very quickly—before you know it—in
this region, we could have a shooting
war, not a war of words and not a vote
at the U.N., but rockets and missiles
being fired at one another from Leb-
anon or from Syria into Israel, with
Israel’s responding back into Syria and
Israel’s responding back into Lebanon.
In fact, Israel has said that all of Leb-
anon is on the target list since now
Hezbollah and the current President of
Lebanon have created a political alli-
ance. You also have these other coun-
tries running around inside Syria, in-
cluding the Russians now and the
Turks up to the north. There is the po-
tential that their troops would get
caught in the firefight in their elic-
iting a response back to Israel. Before
you know it, we could have a
multistate, multiparty, all-out war in
the Middle East. The possibility of that
happening is not farfetched.
I say this to you today with no pleas-
ure. There will be another Israel-
Hezbollah war. It is just a matter of
time. Yet the next one will be far more
deadly. It is incumbent upon us to do
what we can. There are things we can-
not do, and there are things we can do.
It is incumbent upon us to prolong it
and to prevent it for as long as pos-
sible. One of the things we can do to
help prevent that or to extend the time
before that happens is to make it very
clear to Hezbollah and Iran and every-
one else that if they take on Israel, we
will support Israel. That is what this
bill is designed to do. It is not just to
send that message but to put in place
that reality.
Given the tinderbox that is the Mid-
dle East and given the unpredictability
of the various actors involved, particu-
larly those that hate Israel, why would
we not move immediately to address
something like that? Why are we not
capable of voting on something that
will probably get 80 votes here and still
deal with the government shutdown?
The last time we had a government
shutdown, we were still voting on bills
that had nothing to do with the gov-
ernment shutdown. When the other
party was in charge, we were doing
that. There is no precedent for doing it.
I believe that it is possible for us to do
both, and that is what we should do.
This isn’t tax reform or healthcare re-
form. This is something that is urgent
and immediate and requires our atten-
tion because of the unpredictability of
foreign events today and because of the
unpredictability of this part of the
world.
I know, at some point here soon, that
the leader will bring up for a second
time a vote on the motion to proceed.
It is not even a vote on the bill. It is a
motion to begin debate on this bill.
Nothing else is going on around here.
Let them continue to meet and have a
dialogue and talk about how to get us
out of this shutdown. I hope we do. I
hope that happens. Yet don’t shut down
the Senate, particularly on a topic of
this importance, because these events
will not wait for us. It is important for
us to act.
Please don’t go around asking people
to stand up to this administration’s
foreign policies that we don’t agree
with—when we at least offer a counter
or something to diminish its negative
impacts—and respond with obstruction
and not just obstruction because of pol-
icy but with obstruction in order to
make a political point or to avoid a
vote that three or four Senators might
not want to take. I don’t think that
makes a lot of sense.
I think, when it comes to the issues
of national security and foreign policy,
we should try, to the extent possible,
to remove them from the daily grind
and back-and-forth of American poli-
tics because the repercussions are dra-
matic. That is the one thing that
makes national security and foreign
policy different from domestic policy.
You can always go back and change a
bad tax law. You can always go back
and change a bad healthcare law. You
can always go back and make changes
to a bad banking law. You can’t undo
history. You can’t undo wars once they
have started. You can’t undo carnage
once it has occurred. Foreign policy is
often irreversible, and once mistakes
are made, you have to do the best you
can with the hand you have been dealt.
That is why I hope that on this one,
we stop playing games, that we get on
this bill, and that we pass it so that
even as this debate about the shutdown
continues, we will make clear to the
world and we will make clear to her en-
emies that we stand with Israel. We al-
ways have and we always will across
party lines. We may bicker and fight
about many things, but when it comes
to the support of Israel, we are
united—House and Senate Republicans
and Democrats and the White House—
in the support of our strongest ally in
the region and of one of our strongest
allies in the entire world.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I rise to
discuss President Trump’s ongoing
shutdown of the Federal Government—
how we got here, the impact on the
people of my State, and how we can
make some progress.
It is past time for the President to
stop holding the American people for
ransom through this government shut-
down. It is past time to stop the misin-
formation campaign and to stop mak-
ing unwarranted demands for the ill
use of American taxpayers’ dollars.
The President needs to open the gov-
ernment.
The Senate did its work on the budg-
et. We have bipartisan, compromise
bills that are ready for the President’s
signature. Chairman COLLINS and I
worked together, on a bipartisan basis,
to develop the fiscal year 2019 Trans-
portation-HUD bill, which was reported
out of committee unanimously. Our
bill was then approved by the full Sen-
ate as part of a package that included
three other bipartisan appropriations
bills—Agriculture, Financial Services,
and the Interior. Together, these bills
passed by a veto-proof margin of 92 to
6.
I am very proud of the work that
Chairman COLLINS did and that I was
able to assist with during this process
to provide an additional $10 billion to
rebuild our roads, our bridges, and our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.034 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S98 January 9, 2019
airports and to develop new affordable
housing opportunities to more than 5
million low-income Americans who
strive to make ends meet. These in-
vestments will grow our economy, spur
job creation, and improve communities
across America.
The T-HUD bill—on an issue that
both Chairman COLLINS and I care
deeply about—will continue to make a
major commitment to address home-
lessness among youth, veterans, and
survivors of domestic violence. We are
making real progress through the
HUD-VASH Program, which has
brought down homelessness among vet-
erans by 49 percent since 2010 and is
helping 64 communities in 3 States ef-
fectively end homelessness among vet-
erans.
In September, a Senate-House con-
ference committee that I served on had
essentially reached an agreement on a
final version of these four bills. They
could have been passed and signed into
law by the start of the fiscal year last
October 1. It would have been a victory
for the American people—both for the
smart investments these bills would
make and for the restoration of good
government and regular order, which
Chairman SHELBY and Vice Chairman
LEAHY have both made it a priority to
achieve. Instead, a final agreement was
slow-walked and stalled by the House
leadership and then the White House in
order to give the President greater le-
verage for the shutdown he had been
angling for over many months.
Here we are, 3 months into the fiscal
year and 3 weeks into a shutdown, and
800,000 Federal employees have either
been furloughed or forced to work
without pay. Thousands of Federal con-
tract employees are also out of work
and may never be compensated. Trash
is piling up at national parks, and dam-
age is being reported. Employers can’t
access the government’s E-Verify sys-
tem to assure that they are hiring
legal residents. Soon, the shutdown
may prevent HUD from renewing
project-based rental agreements. Press
reports indicate that the shutdown is
causing States to scale back in award-
ing highway and transit contracts.
Starting as soon as this Friday,
many Federal district courts will start
feeling the Federal shutdown pinch
more acutely, with just skeleton crews
or just a few people working without
pay, making it harder for Americans
and businesses to get their day in
court.
Like everyone else, Federal employ-
ees—from Coast Guard officers and en-
listed personnel to FBI agents, to air
traffic controllers—have rent, mort-
gages, student loans, childcare, and
healthcare bills to pay. Many work
paycheck to paycheck.
The President has said that he is
willing to continue this shutdown for
months or even years without a care
about the effect it will have on their
lives. Indeed, during his speech last
night, the President didn’t even men-
tion these Federal employees. In Con-
gress, we hear their stories.
On Monday, air traffic controllers
from T.F. Green Airport visited my of-
fice. They explained that this shut-
down not only creates financial hard-
ships for them, it also clogs the pipe-
line for the hiring and training of new
controllers who are desperately needed
to replace those who are eligible for re-
tirement.
I am hearing from other constituents
too. A USDA meat inspector from
Chepachet, RI, sent me an email over
the holidays saying:
I’m one of the Federal employees that will
be impacted by the government shutdown/
impasse. . . . I’m required to report to work
without pay for the duration. I have 3 chil-
dren under 5 and a stay-at-home husband,
with no contingency plan for lack of pay, es-
pecially during the holiday season. I realize
it’s Christmas, and you all have families too.
The holidays are stressful enough without
additional financial stress.
I hope the President will act and re-
open the Department of Agriculture,
the FDA, and other Agencies that keep
our food and medicine safe.
A Coast Guard lieutenant from West-
erly, RI, also wrote me to say:
I respectfully implore you to represent the
needs and values of servicemembers such as
myself, as well as the hard-working Coast
Guard civilians who work alongside me. Dur-
ing the shutdown, our missions are stunted
and our dedication is disrespected. As the
only household income and as I continue to
fulfill my commitment to active duty serv-
ice, my ability to meet financial obligations
for myself and my two young children is at
great risk if the shutdown continues. Like-
wise, the government is not living up to its
end of the contract made with my crew of
both active duty and civilian members.
Please share this plea with your fellow Con-
gress members.
Lieutenant, thank you for your serv-
ice and for the additional sacrifice you
and your colleagues are making today.
As we think about border security,
let’s remember the important job the
Coast Guard is doing to protect our
border, particularly to prevent illegal
drugs from entering the United States.
In 2017 alone, the Coast Guard seized il-
legal drugs valued at $6.6 billion whole-
sale and detained 708 suspected smug-
glers for prosecution. So it is inter-
esting to have the President talk about
drug smugglers coming across our
Mexican border while the Coast Guard
is out there, unpaid, protecting us on
all of the seas and oceans that abut the
United States.
It is not just Federal employees. An
executive at a small shipyard in North
Kingstown, RI, wrote to me this week
to say:
We do a great deal of work for the U.S.
Coast Guard, and for the last three weeks, we
have not been paid. We currently have about
a half a million dollars due with an addi-
tional $200,000 going in for review and pay-
ment in the next week or so. This situation
is beginning to hinder our ability to pay our
vendors, and it’s created a cash flow defi-
ciency that, if not resolved soon, will be dif-
ficult and costly to manage. Please feel free
to share this message with whoever needs to
hear about this.
This is a small business in Rhode Is-
land, repairing ships for our Coast
Guard, that is facing financial dis-
tress—in fact, perhaps, disaster. Those
are the people who are being harmed by
this shutdown.
Certainly, I hear this message, and I
know my colleagues are listening, but
for whatever reason, the President
doesn’t seem to be listening.
So how does this get resolved? Demo-
crats have offered several paths for-
ward, but now the President—the per-
son who caused this shutdown, who
proudly declared on television he would
take full credit for it—needs to commit
to reopening the government without
precondition.
I know that many people say: Why
can’t you just make a deal with the
President? Unfortunately, the Presi-
dent can’t stick to basic facts, num-
bers, or a bargain.
Originally, Mexico was going to pay
for his border wall. Then he decided
that American taxpayers should pay
for it, so he asked Congress for $1.6 bil-
lion to build 65 miles of wall. Last Sun-
day, his request became $5.7 billion for
more than 230 miles of wall. By Mon-
day, he was considering declaring a na-
tional emergency and using national
defense dollars without congressional
approval.
To the idea that the President would
use defense dollars to build a border
wall, let me say that his proposed wall
has no core defense function. We are
not at war with Mexico.
In fact, the Pentagon’s most recent
national defense strategy doesn’t men-
tion the southern border as a national
defense priority. Meanwhile, the Pen-
tagon has billions of dollars in infra-
structure backlogs, ranging from mili-
tary construction projects for new mis-
sions to deferred maintenance in facili-
ties sustainment, restoration, and
modernization. There is no credible ar-
gument that a border wall takes pri-
ority over any of these.
Of course, the President doesn’t have
a real plan for building the border wall.
In July, the Government Account-
ability Office warned that the Trump
administration’s approach increased
risks that the wall—in their words—
‘‘will cost more than projected, take
longer than planned, or not fully per-
form as expected.’’ Is there any wonder
congressional GOP leaders rejected his
wall when they controlled every branch
of government in the last 2 years?
The President has not been honest
with the American people. He hasn’t
even been straight with members of his
administration or Members of his own
party in Congress, who are often hung
out to dry.
In fact, 2 days before the shutdown,
the then-Senate majority whip told
CNN, after a meeting with Vice Presi-
dent PENCE, that the President would
sign a clean continuing resolution to
keep the government open until after
Christmas. Less than 24 hours later,
that position was reversed by a Presi-
dential tweet.
Even when the President makes a
deal, he has trouble keeping it, espe-
cially when he is under criticism from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.036 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S99
January 9, 2019
rightwing talk radio and TV personal-
ities. After negotiating overall funding
levels for defense and nondefense
spending last year, the President near-
ly vetoed the final 2018 Omnibus appro-
priations bill because he was criticized
for the size and scope of the bill. Sec-
retary Mattis had to be summoned to
the White House to explain how impor-
tant the bill was to the Pentagon be-
fore the President grudgingly agreed to
sign it.
Now there is no Secretary Mattis or
anyone of his stature to give the Presi-
dent good counsel. If the President re-
mains implacable about his wall, it
will be up to my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle to join with
Democrats to pass the bipartisan bills
we have already agreed on together and
reopen the government.
I hope they do so, and soon, as the
lives of our constituents and the health
and businesses of our States are at
stake.
The answer we have to give is not to
the President. The answer is to that
young woman working every day with-
out pay to protect the American public
by inspecting foods that we eat. The
answer we have to give is to that young
Coast Guard officer who is working
every day, trying to pay for and to af-
ford things for a young family without
being paid. The only answer we can
give them is that we are opening up
this government immediately.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
TILLIS). The majority leader.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to a period of morning
business, with Senators permitted to
speak therein for up to 10 minutes
each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
‘‘ENOURA MARU’’ ANNIVERSARY
Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, today,
we remember the 400 American and Al-
lied prisoners of war who died 74 years
ago from friendly fire aboard the Japa-
nese hell ship Enoura Maru docked in
Takeo Harbor, Formosa—modern-day
Taiwan.
Among the dead were men who left
their homes in America, Australia,
Canada, Great Britain, the Nether-
lands, Norway, and Czechoslovakia to
fight an enemy they did not know, in
places few of them had heard of, all in
pursuit of a common cause: freedom,
justice, and equality. These heroes
were part of the infamous 45-day odys-
sey of the last transport of prisoners of
war from the Philippines to Japan—
captive since the American territory
fell to Imperial Japan in the spring of
1942 after fighting to defend the Phil-
ippines.
On the morning of January 9, 1945,
dive bombers from the USS Hornet at-
tacked the unmarked freighter holding
1,300 prisoners of war docked in the
Japanese colony’s harbor. Two hundred
died instantly. Nearly everyone else
was wounded. For 2 days, the men were
left in the floating wreckage before the
Japanese permitted the dead to be re-
moved. Their remains were buried
ashore in mass graves.
After the war, the 400 victims of the
bombing of the Enoura Maru were ex-
humed and eventually brought to the
National Memorial Cemetery of the
Pacific in Hawaii. They rest in 20 mass
graves marked only as ‘‘Unknowns
January 9, 1945.’’ Their families did not
learn the final fate of their loved ones
until 2001.
This past August, we remembered
these brave men with a memorial stone
on the Memorial Walk at the Cemetery
honoring the prisoners of war aboard
the hell ship Enoura Maru. The Amer-
ican Defenders of Bataan and Cor-
regidor Memorial Society, an organiza-
tion that represents the American pris-
oners of war of Imperial Japan and
their families, organized the com-
memoration in Hawaii.
That memorial stone is a monument
to their courage, suffering, and sac-
rifice. It commemorates their tragic
death 74 years ago and marks their
final return home. Let that stone and
our remembrance of the prisoners of
war on the Enoura Maru remind us of
our sacred commitment to veterans of
all eras to ‘‘never forget.’’ May they
rest in peace.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO DICK TRAMMEL
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to acknowledge the remarkable
career and service of a man who has
played an instrumental role in the
growth and development of northwest
Arkansas over the last four decades.
Dick Trammel, a pillar of the com-
munity and a leader who has been in-
volved in almost everything positive
that has happened in and around my
hometown of Rogers, AR, has con-
cluded his service at Arvest Bank after
43 years. He is also ending a 10-year
term on the Arkansas Highway Com-
mission this month.
Dick is a homegrown Arkansan. A
native of Pocahontas, he attended the
University of Arkansas where he was a
cheerleader for the Hogs football team
and earned a bachelor of science degree
in business administration in 1960.
After graduation, Dick returned home
to work in the cotton gin and grain ele-
vator business and became an active
member and leader in Pocahontas and
Randolph County.
As we all now know, the 1960s saw the
founding of retail giant Walmart by
Sam Walton. As Walmart was
headquartered in Bentonville, Sam was
able to entice Dick to relocate to the
region and join First National Bank &
Trust Company in Rogers in 1975. First
National Bank eventually became part
of Arvest Bank and Dick worked for
the company for over four decades, re-
tiring as executive vice president,
member of the board of directors and
board secretary of Arvest Bank, Rog-
ers.
While enjoying a successful career at
Arvest, Dick also played an outsized
role in northwest Arkansas. He served
as president and board member of the
Rogers-Lowell Area Chamber of Com-
merce, was a board member at a local
United Way, founded the Single Parent
Scholarship Fund in Benton County,
was a charter member of the Northwest
Arkansas Community College Board of
Trustees, and served on the Rogers
Youth Center Board of Directors,
among so many other philanthropic
and civic endeavors.
He is also a board member of the U.S.
Marshals Museum Foundation which is
incredibly meaningful given the impor-
tance of the Marshals Service to the re-
gion and the work we have done to help
make the U.S. Marshals Museum in
Fort Smith a reality. We worked to-
gether not only in that capacity, but in
many other ways to help the region
grow as Dick has spent the last 10
years on our State’s highway commis-
sion following his appointment to the
panel by former Governor Mike Beebe
in 2009.
Just recently it was announced that,
through many years of persistent work
between members of Congress from Ar-
kansas and Missouri and the respective
legislatures and State government
agencies in both States, that a multi-
million-dollar grant has been secured
to complete the Bella Vista Bypass on
Interstate 49. Dick and his colleagues
on the highway commission understood
just how important this was for the re-
gion and worked hand-in-hand with the
congressional delegation to reach this
outcome.
As Dick’s service at Arvest and on
the Arkansas Highway Commission
comes to a close, it is only fitting to
recognize his enormous impact on a re-
gion in Arkansas that has experienced
so much growth and transformation
throughout his career. Throughout all
this change, Dick Trammel has re-
mained a constant source of stability,
leadership, and willingness to do what-
ever it takes to improve the quality of
life for everyone in the community.
When my brother and I moved to
Rogers to establish a medical practice
in 1977, Dick was one of the first people
we met. During that time and over the
decades that have followed, he has been
a steadfast friend and mentor. I greatly
admire and appreciate his many con-
tributions to a place we both love and
have served in different capacities over
the years.
I wish Dick and his wife Nancy well
as he begins a well-deserved retire-
ment. He has always been dedicated to
helping people, and his lengthy career
has demonstrated that commitment
many times over. I am grateful to Dick
and his entire family for the way they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.039 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S100 January 9, 2019
have served and led. Because of his ef-
forts, northwest Arkansas is in a much
better place today than we he first
called it home.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO URBAN RAHOI
∑ Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President,
today I honor an Alaska legend, Urban
Rahoi, on the occasion of his 100th
birthday, which occurred on Monday,
January 6, 2019. Now, my colleagues
might wonder, what the heck is an
Urban Rahoi?
To his admirers throughout the State
of Alaska, the question is more appro-
priately stated: What is Urban Rahoi
not?
Urban is a World War II veteran, an
Alaska pioneer, a homesteader, a lodge
owner, a legendary hunting guide, an
aviator, a snowmobiler, an entre-
preneur, and a statesman. They call
him ‘‘Urban Legend—kind of an odd
play on words because ‘‘urban legends’’
are supposed to be false, but you will
not find a more direct and honest guy
than Urban Rahoi.
He has been flying for more than 80
years and has survived three plane
crashes with barely a bruise. That
earned Urban a reputation of being
somewhat indestructible. That reputa-
tion has only strengthened over the
years.
In 2016, Urban was out at his remote
lodge on an inholding in the Wrangell-
St. Elias National Park. He woke up at
6 a.m. one morning with a ‘‘difficult to
describe feeling.’’ He felt something
was just wrong and needed to get out of
there. Urban was 97 years old at the
time.
Now, most 97-year-olds who wake up
to these feelings would likely call 911—
not Urban. He gets in his plane and
flies off from the lodge to Tok. Then he
gets in a truck to begin a 202-mile drive
to Fairbanks. He stops for breakfast,
drops by a friend’s cabin for lunch and
storytelling along the way, goes home
for a half hour, and then drives over to
Fairbanks Memorial Hospital. It turns
out Urban had suffered a stroke, albeit
a minor one in his estimation.
Urban is fond of saying: ‘‘In my dic-
tionary, two words don’t exist: can’t
and impossible.’’ So he wasn’t about to
let a little stroke stop him. Following
his release from the hospital, Urban
put in long hours in physical therapy.
He was reportedly grumpy about miss-
ing fall hunting, but he was looking
forward to returning to flying and par-
ticipating in the Tired Iron
snowmachine race.
The Tired Iron race is a fundraiser
for the Boy Scouts that features racers
in relatively ancient snowmachines, or
what people in the lower 48 would call
snowmobiles. Urban races a 1965 vin-
tage Polaris Mustang. He is known to
quip that the iron may be tired, but he
isn’t. True to form, Urban won the 2017
Tired Iron, months after his stroke.
Come to think of it, he won the 2018
Tired Iron as well.
Just as I said, ‘‘indestructible.’’
Urban Rahoi was originally from Iron
Mountain. He learned to fly in 1934,
making his first solo flight at age 15,
and joined the Air Force in 1942, where
he flew B–17s during World War II.
After the war, Urban attended Michi-
gan Technological Institute for 18
months. Restless, he began flying in
Alaska and soon packed up his wife Vi,
their four dogs, and a pile of gear into
his three-passenger Super Cruiser, fly-
ing north to Fairbanks. That was in
1947, a dozen years before statehood.
He was one of the founding partners
of Interior Airways, which at one point
was one of the largest operators of C–
130 cargo planes in the world. He re-
mained active in the Air Force Reserve
in Alaska and founded his own air serv-
ice, which enabled him to get back to
his homestead on the Tanana River
every night. A real estate developer, as
well, he developed the Lakeview Ter-
race subdivision in South Fairbanks.
Urban holds Alaska State Guide li-
cense No. 1, issued shortly after state-
hood, but he began guiding from his
Ptarmigan Lake Lodge even before
Alaska statehood and remains a master
sheep hunter today.
My family has many stories from
hunts with Urban, and all end with how
Urban kicked their butts as he hiked
up and down the mountain, packing
more than his share. Urban’s energy
humbled the strongest hunter, regard-
less of age.
Urban is also a citizen-statesman. He
served on the Fairbanks North Star
Borough Assembly and has run for the
Alaska Legislature several times. He
remains active in the realm of game
policy.
In recent years, Urban has been
working on a bucket list item: flying
vintage planes. He flew the B–17G Yan-
kee Lady out of the Yankee Air Mu-
seum in Ypsilanti, MI, when he was 94.
In 2015, he wanted to fly a B–17 over the
National Mall in commemoration of
VE Day. Despite my efforts to help him
gain permission to fly, he ended up a
passenger because the government
wouldn’t let him fly in restricted air-
space. They clearly didn’t know my
friend’s skill as an aviator.
During a visit to Eielson Air Force
Base in 2016, Urban told his hosts that
he lives by a simple philosophy: ‘‘Be
happy with what you do and if you
aren’t happy, go find something you’ll
be happy with.’’ By all accounts, Urban
has enjoyed a happy and successful life
following that philosophy.
It is with great pleasure that I honor
my friend Urban Rahoi in the U.S. Sen-
ate. On behalf of my colleagues, I ex-
tend Urban best wishes for what I know
will continue to be an adventurous fu-
ture.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Mr. Pate, one of his sec-
retaries.
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:20 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 128. An act to clarify the primary
functions and duties of the Office of Advo-
cacy of the Small Business Administration,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 227. An act to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to specify what credit is given for
certain subcontractors and to provide a dis-
pute process for non-payment to subcontrac-
tors, and for other purposes.
H.R. 251. An act to extend by two years the
Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program of the Department of Homeland Se-
curity, and for other purposes.
H.R. 259. An act to extend the Medicaid
Money Follows the Person Rebalancing dem-
onstration, to extend protection for Medicaid
recipients of home and community-based
services against spousal impoverishment,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 269. An act to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under the Public Health Service Act
and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act with respect to public health security
and all-hazards preparedness and response,
to clarify the regulatory framework with re-
spect to certain nonprescription drugs that
are marketed without an approved drug ap-
plication, and for other purposes.
The message also announced that
pursuant to section 4 of the United
States Semiquincentennial Commis-
sion Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–196),
and the order of the House of January
3, 2019, the Speaker appoints the fol-
lowing Member on the part of the
House of Representatives to the United
States Semiquincentennial Commis-
sion: Mr. Evans of Pennsylvania.
At 5:36 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 264. An act making appropriations for
financial services and general government
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bill was read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 227. An act to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to specify what credit is given for
certain subcontractors and to provide a dis-
pute process for non-payment to subcontrac-
tors, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entrepreneur-
ship.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.037 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S101
January 9, 2019
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 47. A bill to provide for the management
of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bills were read the first
time:
H.R. 251. An act to extend by two years the
Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program of the Department of Homeland Se-
curity, and for other purposes.
H.R. 264. An act making appropriations for
financial services and general government
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 269. An act to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under the Public Health Service Act
and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act with respect to public health security
and all-hazards preparedness and response,
to clarify the regulatory framework with re-
spect to certain nonprescription drugs that
are marketed without an approved drug ap-
plication, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–21. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and
Reserve Affairs), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report on the mobilizations of selected
reserve units, received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 2, 2019;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–22. A communication from the Acting
Principal Director, Defense Pricing and Con-
tracting, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition Regula-
tion Supplement: Submission of Summary
Subcontract Reports’’ ((RIN0750–AJ42)
(DFARS Case 2017–D005)) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Decem-
ber 19, 2018; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–23. A communication from the Acting
Principal Director, Defense Pricing and Con-
tracting, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition Regula-
tion Supplement: Restrictions on Acquisi-
tions from Foreign Sources’’ ((RIN0750–AJ22)
(DFARS Case 2017–D011)) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Decem-
ber 19, 2018; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–24. A communication from the Acting
Principal Director, Defense Pricing and Con-
tracting, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition Regula-
tion Supplement: Electronic Submission and
Processing of Payment Requests and Receiv-
ing Reports’’ ((RIN0750–AJ44) (DFARS Case
2016–D032)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on December 19, 2018;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–25. A communication from the Acting
Principal Director, Defense Pricing and Con-
tracting, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition Regula-
tion Supplement: Modification of the Limits
on Single-Source Task or Delivery Order
Contracts’’ ((RIN0750–AK21) (DFARS Case
2018–D060)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on December 19, 2018;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–26. A communication from the Acting
Principal Director, Defense Pricing and Con-
tracting, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition Regula-
tion Supplement: Foreign Commercial Sat-
ellite Services and Certain Items on the
Commerce Control List’’ ((RIN0750–AJ82)
(DFARS Case 2018–D020)) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Decem-
ber 19, 2018; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–27. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to the
Western Balkans that was declared in Execu-
tive Order 13219 of June 26, 2001; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–28. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to ter-
rorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle
East peace process that was declared in Ex-
ecutive Order 12947 of January 23, 1995; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–29. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to
North Korea that was declared in Executive
Order 13466 of June 26, 2008; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–30. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Amendments to Reg-
ulation A’’ (RIN3235–AM42) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Jan-
uary 2, 2019; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–31. A communication from the Asso-
ciate General Counsel for Legislation and
Regulations, Office of General Counsel, De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Streamlining War-
ranty Requirements for Federal Housing Ad-
ministration (FHA) Single-Family Mortgage
Insurance: Removal of the Ten-Year Protec-
tion Plan Requirements’’ (RIN2502–AJ40) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 2, 2019; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–32. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community
Eligibility; North Carolina; Camden County,
Unincorporated Areas et al.’’ ((44 CFR Part
64) (Docket No. FEMA–2018–0002)) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
January 2, 2019; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–33. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Rule 610T—Trans-
action Fee Pilot’’ (RIN3235–0761) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
January 2, 2019; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–34. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Applications by Se-
curity-Based Swap Dealers or Major Secu-
rity-Based Swap Participants for Statutorily
Disqualified Associated Persons to Effect or
be Involved in Effecting Security-Based
Swaps’’ (RIN3235–AL76) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on January 2,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–35. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘TRICARE Pharmacy Bene-
fits Program Reforms’’ (RIN0720–AB75) re-
ceived on January 2, 2019; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
EC–36. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Legislation, Regula-
tion and Energy Efficiency, Department of
Energy, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Inflation Adjust-
ment of Civil Monetary Penalties’’ (10 CFR
Parts 207, 218, 429, 431, 490, 501, 601, 820, 824,
851, 1013, 1017, and 1050) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on January 3,
2018; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
EC–37. A communication from the Director
of Human Resources Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, two (2) reports relative
to vacancies in the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 3, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–38. A communication from the Director
of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nuclear
Reactor Regulation, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final Safety
Evaluations of Technical Specifications
Task Force Traveler TSTF–564, Revision 2,
‘Safety Limit MCPR’ Using the Consolidated
Line Item Improvement Process’’ (NUREG–
1433 and 1434) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 2, 2018;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–39. A communication from the Director
of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nuclear
Reactor Regulation, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final Revised
Model Safety Evaluation of Traveler TSTF–
505, Revision 2, ‘Provide Risk-Informed Ex-
tended Completion Times, RITSTF Initiative
4B’ ’’ (NUREG–1430, 1431, 1432, 1433, and 1434)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 2, 2018; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–40. A communication from the Director
of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nuclear
Reactor Regulation, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final Safety
Evaluation of Technical Specifications Task
Force Traveler TSTF–563, Revision 0, ‘Revise
Instrument Testing Definitions to Incor-
porate the Surveillance Frequency Control
Program’ ’’ (NUREG–1430, 1431, 1432, 1433,
1434, and 2194) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 2, 2018;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–41. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States to the President
Pro Tempore of the United States Senate,
transmitting, consistent with the War Pow-
ers Act, a report relative to the deployment
of U.S. forces to support the security of U.S.
personnel and our Embassy in The Demo-
cratic Republic of the Congo; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
EC–42. A communication from the Deputy
Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory
Affairs, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corpora-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Allocation of Assets
in Single-Employer Plans; Benefits Payable
in Terminated Single-Employer Plans; Inter-
est Assumptions for Valuing and Paying
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA6.010 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S102 January 9, 2019
Benefits’’ (29 CFR Parts 4022 and 4044) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 2, 2019; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–43. A communication from the Deputy
Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory
Affairs, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corpora-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Allocation of Assets
in Single-Employer Plans; Valuation of Ben-
efits and Assets; Expected Retirement Age’’
(29 CFR Part 4044) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on January 2,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–44. A communication from the Director
of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Uniform Compliance Date
for Food Labeling Regulations’’ ((21 CFR
Part 101) (Docket No. FDA–2000–N–0011)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 2, 2019; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–45. A communication from the Director
of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Listing of Color Additives
Subject to Certification; D&C Yellow No. 8;
Confirmation of Effective Date’’ ((21 CFR
Part 74) (Docket No. FDA–2017–C–2902)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 2, 2019; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–46. A communication from the Director
of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Food Labeling; Revision of
the Nutrition and Supplement Facts Labels;
Technical Amendments’’ ((21 CFR Part 101)
(Docket No. FDA–2012–N–1210)) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
January 2, 2019; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–47. A communication from the Director
of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Medical Device Classifica-
tion Procedures; Incorporating Food and
Drug Administration Safety and Innovation
Act Procedures’’ ((RIN0910–AH75) (Docket
No. FDA–2013–N–1529)) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on January 2,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–48. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Federal Trade Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Commis-
sion’s Financial Report for fiscal year 2018;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–49. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Rescinding Depart-
ment of Homeland Security Acquisition Reg-
ulation (HSAR) Clause 3052.219–70, Small
Business Subcontracting Plan Reporting
(HSAR Case 2017–001)’’ (RIN1601–AA83) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 2, 2019; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–50. A communication from the Director
of Regulation Policy and Management, De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Loan Guaranty: Revisions to VA-Guaran-
teed or Insured Cash-out Home Refinance
Loans’’ (RIN2900–AQ42) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on January 2,
2019; to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
EC–51. A communication from the
Broadband Division Chief, Wireless Tele-
communication Bureau, Federal Commu-
nications Commission, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Use
of Spectrum Bands Above 24 GHz for Mobile
Radio Services’’ ((GN Docket No. 14–177)
(FCC 18–180)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 2, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–52. A communication from the Chief of
Staff, Wireline Competition Bureau, Federal
Communications Commission, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Connect America Fund’’ ((WC Docket Nos.
10–90, 14–58, and 07–135) (FCC 18–176)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on January 2, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–53. A communication from the Chief of
Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Television
Broadcasting Services; Morehead and Rich-
mond, Kentucky’’ (MB Docket No. 18–320) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 2, 2018; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–54. A communication from the Chief of
Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘’Amend-
ment of Parts 0, 1, 5, 73, and 74 of the Com-
mission’s Rules Regarding Posting of Sta-
tion Licenses and Related Information’ and
’Modernization of Media Regulation Initia-
tive’’’ ((MB Docket Nos. 18–121 and 17–105)
(FCC 18–174)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 2, 2018;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–55. A communication from the Federal
Register Liaison Officer, Alcohol and To-
bacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of
the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Expansion of
the Arroyo Seco Viticultural Area’’
(RIN1513–AC36) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 2, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–56. A communication from the Federal
Register Liaison Officer, Alcohol and To-
bacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of
the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Expansion of
the Monticello Viticultural Area’’ (RIN1513–
AC37) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on January 2, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–57. A communication from the Federal
Register Liaison Officer, Alcohol and To-
bacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of
the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establishment
of the Van Duzer Corridor Viticultural Area
and Clarification of the Eola-Amity Hill
Viticultural Area Boundary Description’’
(RIN1513–AC39) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 2, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–1. A concurrent resolution adopted
by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio
urging the United States Congress to enact
bills advancing the development of an Appa-
lachian storage hub; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 21
Whereas, The Appalachian region, includ-
ing parts of Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania,
and all of West Virginia, contains world class
supplies of natural gas and natural gas liq-
uids (NGL) that contribute to the country’s
energy dominance; and
Whereas, Harnessing those supplies by con-
structing an Appalachian storage hub in-
volves major investments in infrastructure,
including storage caverns and pipelines, and
implementation of a significant jobs pro-
gram for the residents of the Appalachian re-
gion; and
Whereas, Natural gas liquids are the major
feedstock of the chemical industry and the
region contains enough feedstock to attract
$35 billion in new chemical and plastics in-
dustry investment. Chemical and plastic in-
dustry investments of this scale could create
100,000 new jobs, $28 billion in new economic
output, more than $6 billion in annual pay-
roll, and nearly $3 billion a year in new fed-
eral, state, and local tax revenue; and
Whereas, Enactment of the federal ‘‘Appa-
lachian Energy and Manufacturing Revital-
ization Act’’ would improve the infrastruc-
ture permitting process by directing the Sec-
retaries of Energy and Commerce to approve
projects related to the Appalachian storage
hub, identify the lead federal and state agen-
cy liaisons, and coordinate with them on des-
ignating the project; and
Whereas, The bill directs the Federal En-
ergy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to con-
sider relevant licenses and permits for the
requisite pipeline infrastructure, and then
requires the other federal agencies to com-
plete consideration of their respective per-
mits within 60 days of the completion of the
FERC licensing or have their jurisdictional
permits deemed approved; and
Whereas, In addition to the ‘‘Appalachian
Energy and Manufacturing Revitalization
Act,’’ the ‘‘Capitalizing American Storage
Potential Act’’ would make a regional NGL
storage hub eligible for the Department of
Energy’s successful Title XVII loan guar-
antee program, and the ‘‘Appalachian Eth-
ane Storage Hub Study Act of 2017’’ would
help assess the feasibility and potential ben-
efits of establishing a subterranean ethane
storage and distribution hub in central Ap-
palachia; now therefore be it
Resolved, That we, the members of the
132nd General Assembly of the State of Ohio,
urge the Congress of the United States to
enact bills advancing the development of an
Appalachian storage hub, including all of the
following:
The ‘‘Appalachian Energy and Manufac-
turing Revitalization Act of 2017’’;
The ‘‘Capitalizing American Storage Po-
tential Act’’, and
The ‘‘Appalachian Ethane Storage Hub
Study Act of 2017’’; and be it further
Resolved, That the Clerk of the Senate
transmit duly authenticated copies of this
resolution to the President of the United
States, the President Pro Tempore and Sec-
retary of the United States Senate, the
Speaker and Clerk of the United States
House of Representatives, each member of
the Ohio, West Virginia, Kentucky, and
Pennsylvania Congressional delegations, and
the news media of Ohio.
POM–2. A resolution adopted by the Town
Council of Durham, New Hampshire, calling
on the United States Congress to lead a glob-
al effort to prevent nuclear war; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
POM–3. A petition from a citizen of the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico requesting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA6.014 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S103
January 9, 2019
that the government of the United States ex-
empt Puerto Rico from the regulations of
the Jones Act, also known in Puerto Rico as
the Cabotage Act, to allow foreign-flag ships
to bring goods to the country; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
DAINES):
S. 60. A bill to withdraw certain National
Forest System land in the Emigrant Crevice
area located in the Custer Gallatin National
Forest, Park County, Montana, from the
mining and mineral leasing laws of the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and
Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 61. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for the per-
sonal importation of safe and affordable
drugs from approved pharmacies in Canada;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. CARDIN,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. KAINE, Mr. KING, Mr. LEAHY, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MURPHY,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. REED, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. SMITH, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Ms. WARREN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
Mr. WARNER, Mr. WYDEN, and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 62. A bill to amend title XVIII of the So-
cial Security Act to allow the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to negotiate fair
prescription drug prices under part D of the
Medicare program; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and
Mr. BLUNT):
S. 63. A bill to implement the recommenda-
tions of the Joint Select Committee on
Budget and Appropriations Process Reform;
to the Committee on the Budget.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. GRASSLEY):
S. 64. A bill to prohibit brand name drug
companies from compensating generic drug
companies to delay the entry of a generic
drug into the market, and to prohibit bio-
logical product manufacturers from compen-
sating biosimilar and interchangeable com-
panies to delay the entry of biosimilar bio-
logical products and interchangeable biologi-
cal products; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. BOOKER,
and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 65. A bill to amend the Federal Reserve
Act to require Federal Reserve banks to
interview at least one individual reflective of
gender diversity and one individual reflec-
tive of racial or ethnic diversity when ap-
pointing Federal Reserve bank presidents,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
REED, Mr. CARPER, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Mr. CARDIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
SCHATZ, Ms. HIRONO, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. WYDEN, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. WARNER, and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 66. A bill to regulate assault weapons, to
ensure that the right to keep and bear arms
is not unlimited, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and
Ms. HARRIS):
S. 67. A bill to provide for conservation, en-
hanced recreation opportunities, and devel-
opment of renewable energy in the California
Desert Conservation Area, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. JONES (for himself, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. SMITH,
and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 68. A bill to require the Medicaid and
CHIP Payment and Access Commission to
publish an annual report on the estimated
impact in each State of the Medicaid expan-
sion added by the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act, including the estimated
impact that adopting such expansion would
have in States that have not expanded their
Medicaid coverage; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. GRA-
HAM, Mr. THUNE, Mr. BARRASSO, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. BRAUN, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. COTTON, Mr. CRAPO,
Mr. CRUZ, Mr. DAINES, Mr. ENZI, Ms.
ERNST, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. GRASSLEY,
Mr. HOEVEN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. MORAN, Mr. PERDUE, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. RISCH, Mr. ROBERTS,
Mr. RUBIO, Mr. SHELBY, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. WICKER, and
Mr. ISAKSON):
S. 69. A bill to allow reciprocity for the
carrying of certain concealed firearms; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Mr.
JONES, and Mrs. HYDE-SMITH):
S. 70. A bill to establish the Medgar and
Myrlie Evers Home National Monument in
the State of Mississippi, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Mr. TILLIS, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 71. A bill to ensure independent inves-
tigations and judicial review of the removal
of a special counsel, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
MURPHY, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. WARNER, and Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO):
S. 72. A bill to suspend the enforcement of
certain civil liabilities of Federal employees
and contractors during a lapse in appropria-
tions, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MCCONNELL:
S. Res. 12. A resolution to constitute the
majority party’s membership on certain
committees for the One Hundred Sixteenth
Congress, or until their successors are cho-
sen; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. SCHUMER:
S. Res. 13. A resolution to constitute the
minority party’s membership on certain
committees for the One Hundred Sixteenth
Congress, or until their successors are cho-
sen; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 1
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH) was added as a cosponsor of S. 1,
a bill to make improvements to certain
defense and security assistance provi-
sions and to authorize the appropria-
tion of funds to Israel, to reauthorize
the United States-Jordan Defense Co-
operation Act of 2015, and to halt the
wholesale slaughter of the Syrian peo-
ple, and for other purposes.
S. 21
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
21, a bill making continuing appropria-
tions for Coast Guard pay in the event
an appropriations act expires prior to
the enactment of a new appropriations
act.
S. 24
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S. 24,
a bill to provide for the compensation
of Federal and other government em-
ployees affected by lapses in appropria-
tions.
S. 47
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES), the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH), the Senator
from West Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN) and
the Senator from Colorado (Mr. GARD-
NER) were added as cosponsors of S. 47,
a bill to provide for the management of
the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself,
Mr. MURPHY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. REED, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
CARDIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. HIRONO, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. SANDERS, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. HASSAN,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. WARNER,
and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 66. A bill to regulate assault weap-
ons, to ensure that the right to keep
and bear arms is not unlimited, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to reintroduce legislation
that prohibits the sale, transfer, manu-
facture, and importation of assault
weapons.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:18 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA6.016 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S104 January 9, 2019
I will keep doing this every Congress.
This legislation must constantly be be-
fore us until Republicans finally decide
to join me in the effort to stop mass
shootings. This legislation is not per-
fect. But it is part of the solution. We
must start with reducing the supply of
the weapons of war that are used to
take the lives of our loved ones.
These last years have seen some of
the worst gun-violence tragedies in our
Nation’s history. For example, on Oc-
tober 1, 2017, in Las Vegas, Nevada, a
gunman opened fire with multiple
semi-automatic assault rifles that he
had legally transformed into automatic
weapons. He killed more than fifty peo-
ple and left more than 500 wounded.
Among the victims were mothers, fa-
thers, brothers, and sisters.
There was Kelsey Meadows, 28 years
old, who after graduating from the Uni-
versity of California, Fresno, returned
to her hometown of Taft, California to
be a substitute teacher at her alma
mater, Taft Union High School. She
was described by the high school prin-
cipal as ‘‘smart, compassionate, and
kind’’ with a ‘‘sweet spirit and a love
for children.’’ Her entire family and
community were completely dev-
astated. Kelsey could have been any of
us, attending that concert.
My own daughter told me after the
Las Vegas shooting that she was sup-
posed to be in the city that evening,
but her plans had to change. It was
only a little more than a year before
the Las Vegas shooting that we experi-
enced what had then been the worst
mass shooting in our nation’s history.
That was when 49 people, who were en-
joying an evening of dancing with
friends and loved ones, were massacred
in Orlando, Florida. Victims in Orlando
included 22-year old Luis Velma, who
was working at Universal Studios on a
Harry Potter ride.
There was also Eddie Justice, a 30-
year old accountant who texted his
mother from the shooting, telling her:
‘‘Mommy I love you.’’ ‘‘In club they
shooting.’’ ‘‘He has us.’’ I encourage
every member of this chamber to imag-
ine receiving those text messages from
their son or daughter.
And just six months before that, 14
people were killed and more than 20
were injured in San Bernardino, Cali-
fornia at a work holiday party. Among
the victims was a father of six. A
mother of three. A woman who was
eight when she and her mother left
Vietnam for a better life in America.
The youngest victim was 26, and the
oldest was 60.
And we should never forget that on
December 14, 2012, 20 children had their
lives taken at Sandy Hook Elementary
School. Children. This issue could not
be more important for our children’s
future.
This past year we saw young men and
women begin an incredible movement
after the shooting that took place on
February 14, 2018, at Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School in
Parkland, Florida. They are setting an
example for all of us. Tens of thousands
of students nationwide have taken to
the streets to demand action to stop
mass shootings and stem the epidemic
of gun violence that plagues our com-
munities. Our youngest generation has
grown up hiding under their desks, and
they have said, ‘‘enough.’’
Following their example, I encourage
every member of this body to imagine
dropping their young child off at school
this morning, only to learn a few hours
later that a gunman walked into that
school and tried to kill as many people
as possible. That is something we can
prevent.
The deadly assault weapons used by
the attackers in each of the dev-
astating shootings I have mentioned
would have been banned under the As-
sault Weapons Ban bill that I am intro-
ducing today. This bill helps keep us
safer, while also protecting the rights
of lawful gun owners.
It prohibits semi-automatic rifles,
handguns, and shotguns that can ac-
cept a detachable magazine and have
one military characteristic. This is the
standard employed in my home state of
California—and it works. The bill also
prohibits bump-fire stocks, which, as
we saw in Las Vegas, allow people to
convert semi-automatic rifles to func-
tion like machine guns.
Importantly, our legislation further
prohibits large-capacity ammunition
feeding devices capable of accepting
more than ten rounds. It also has sev-
eral technical updates to the bill that
was introduced last Congress. Specifi-
cally, it bans stocks that are otherwise
foldable or adjustable in a manner that
operates to reduce the length, size, or
any other dimension, or otherwise en-
hances the concealability of a weapon.
Additionally, it prohibits assault pis-
tols that weigh 50 ounces or more when
unloaded, a provision which was origi-
nally part of the 1994 ban.
Finally, it bans assault pistol stabi-
lizing braces and Thordsen-type grips
and stocks that are designed to evade
assault weapons bans. Now, let me tell
you what the bill will not do.
It will not affect hunting or sporting
firearms. Instead, the bill protects
hunters and sportsmen by specifically
exempting 2,258 firearms used for hunt-
ing or sporting purposes. It also ex-
empts antique, manually-operated, and
permanently disabled weapons. More-
over, the bill protects the rights of ex-
isting gun owners by grandfathering
weapons legally possessed on the date
of enactment.
Opponents believe that this legisla-
tion impinges upon Second Amendment
rights. I disagree. The Supreme Court
expressly held in District of Columbia
v. Heller that ‘‘the right secured by the
Second Amendment is not unlimited.’’
The Court made clear that reasonable
regulations are constitutional. This
bill simply establishes reasonable regu-
lations on what types of weapons may
be sold and used. Individuals should
not own nuclear weapons, they should
not own rocket launchers, and they
should not own military-style assault
weapons.
In fact, a number of courts have con-
sidered challenges to assault weapons
bans. To date, every court that has
considered a ban on assault weapons or
large-capacity magazines has upheld
the law. Mr. President, I believe very
strongly that the most important duty
that government has to its citizens is
to protect the nation and the safety of
its people. Now, I am under no illu-
sions. I know that the gun lobby has a
stranglehold on this building. I know
we got 40 votes in 2013, and I know Re-
publicans control the Senate today.
But I also know this was hard-fought
in 1994, and we prevailed—with Repub-
lican support. It was a bipartisan vote.
I still believe that, at some point, my
Republican colleagues will come to-
gether and realize that we can be a na-
tion that protects its people from the
savagery of these weapons.
I thank the chair, and I yield the
floor.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself
and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 67. A bill to provide for conserva-
tion, enhanced recreation opportuni-
ties, and development of renewable en-
ergy in the California Desert Conserva-
tion Area, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources.
Ms. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President,
today I am proud to introduce the
‘‘California Desert Protection and
Recreation Act of 2019.’’
This bill represents a decade-long
collaborative effort between conserva-
tionists, the off-road vehicle rec-
reational community, State and local
governments, small businesses, and
public utilities. Through this collabo-
rative effort, we have developed a path
forward to sustainably and comprehen-
sively manage California’s fragile
desert resources.
Before I continue, I would especially
like to thank Senators LISA MUR-
KOWSKI and MARIA CANTWELL, as well
as their staff, for all of their hard work
to move this bill forward last Congress.
With their assistance, this legislation
passed out of the Senate Energy and
Natural Resources Committee in Octo-
ber 2018 and was included in a bipar-
tisan public lands package.
Despite the disappointing outcome of
last Congress, we have come farther
with this bill than ever before, and I
look forward to working once again
with Senator MURKOWSKI, as well as
the newly designated Ranking Member
JOE MANCHIN, to maintain our momen-
tum and pass this bill as quickly as
possible.
I also would like to express my grati-
tude to Representative PAUL COOK and
his staff for their tremendous work and
collaboration on this legislation over
the past two years.
The California desert is as special as
it is unique. Unlike many deserts in
the world, our desert is abundant with
plant and animal species, many of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA6.023 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S105
January 9, 2019
which are only found in California.
From the iconic Joshua Trees to the
desert tortoise, big horn sheep, and
scores of wildflowers, the beauty of the
California desert is unrivaled.
I have heard from thousands of con-
stituents who share a love for the
peace and tranquility of this majestic
area, such as young students from
urban areas exposed to the desert for
the first time and veterans returning
home from warzones finding much-
needed quiet in California’s desert
landscapes.
When I first came to Washington
twenty-six years ago, Senator Alan
Cranston asked me to assume the man-
tle and carry on his efforts to protect
the desert by introducing and passing a
desert protection bill.
Despite opposition, and even fili-
buster attempts, the California Desert
Protection Act of 1994 passed and was
signed into law by President Clinton.
Since then, we have all watched the
unique desert plants, animals, and sur-
rounding communities flourish, at-
tracting visitors from around the
world.
The 1994 bill permanently protected
more than 7.5 million acres of pristine
desert land in national parks and pre-
serves, and I worked closely with Presi-
dent Obama in 2016 to designate three
new desert National monuments that
protected a further 1.8 million acres.
The original Desert Protection Act
was a crowning achievement for desert
conservation, establishing 69 new Wil-
derness areas, creating the Mojave Na-
tional Preserve, and converting Death
Valley and Joshua Tree National
Monuments into National Parks. All
told, we were able to protect, or in-
crease protections for about 9.6 million
acres.
I am proud to have been a part of
these achievements for the desert, and
I remain steadfast in my commitment
to get this legislation across the finish
line.
As I mentioned earlier, this bill rep-
resents the varied interests of desert
stakeholders and balances the many
uses of the California desert. I’ll high-
light some of what’s in the bill now.
The bill designates approximately
375,500 acres of wilderness, including
eight new Bureau of Land Management
(BLM) wilderness areas.
It expands Death Valley National
Park Wilderness by approximately
88,000 acres and adds 7,141 acres to the
San Gorgonio Wilderness within San
Bernardino National Forest.
This bill also expands Joshua Tree
National Park by 4,518 acres and Death
Valley National Park by approxi-
mately 35,292 acres. The additions to
Joshua Tree National Park include
1,600 acres donated by the Mojave
Desert Land Trust.
The legislation also officially des-
ignates six existing Off-Highway Vehi-
cle Recreation Areas totaling 200,580
acres to provide certainty that these
recreational uses will be protected and
maintained in a manner similar to con-
servation areas.
Two more additions are the Alabama
Hills National Scenic Area in Inyo
County and the Vinagre Wash Special
Management Area in Imperial County.
The Alabama Hills National Scenic
Area preserves 18,610 acres for contin-
ued recreation and conservation. The
Vinagre Wash Special Management
Area covers approximately 81,800 acres
of Bureau of Land Management land to
provide for wilderness preservation, ve-
hicular use on designated routes, and
limitations on extractive uses of the
land within the management area.
Lastly, this bill designates 77 miles
of Wild and Scenic Rivers.
Desert conservation has never been a
partisan issue. Over the years, legisla-
tors have come together across party
lines to preserve and protect Califor-
nia’s desert.
Considering our progress and bipar-
tisan efforts last Congress, I am hope-
ful this Congress will take this legisla-
tion up and move it forward as quickly
as possible.
This bill represents years of collabo-
rative work and the interests of a wide
variety of groups and communities
with the shared goal of protecting and
sustainably managing California’s
desert. This area is a true national
treasure, and I look forward to con-
tinuing our work to protect it for gen-
erations to come.
Thank you.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 12—TO CON-
STITUTE THE MAJORITY PAR-
TY’S MEMBERSHIP ON CERTAIN
COMMITTEES FOR THE ONE HUN-
DRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS, OR
UNTIL THEIR SUCCESSORS ARE
CHOSEN
Mr. MCCONNELL submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 12
Resolved, That the following shall con-
stitute the majority party’s membership on
the following committees for the One Hun-
dred Sixteenth Congress, or until their suc-
cessors are chosen:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION,
AND FORESTRY: Mr. Roberts, Mr. McConnell,
Mr. Boozman, Mr. Hoeven, Ms. Ernst, Mrs.
Hyde-Smith, Mr. Braun, Mr. Perdue, Mr.
Grassley, Mr. Thune, Mrs. Fischer.
COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS: Mr.
Shelby, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Alexander, Ms.
Collins, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Graham, Mr.
Blunt, Mr. Moran, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Boozman,
Mrs. Capito, Mr. Kennedy, Mrs. Hyde-Smith,
Mr. Daines, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Lankford.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES: Mr.
Inhofe, Mr. Wicker, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Cot-
ton, Mr. Rounds, Ms. Ernst, Mr. Tillis, Mr.
Sullivan, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Cramer, Ms.
McSally, Mr. Scott (FL), Mrs. Blackburn,
Mr. Hawley.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND
URBAN AFFAIRS: Mr. Crapo, Mr. Shelby, Mr.
Toomey, Mr. Scott (SC), Mr. Sasse, Mr. Cot-
ton, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Perdue, Mr. Tillis, Mr.
Kennedy, Ms. McSally, Mr. Moran, Mr.
Cramer.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION: Mr. Wicker, Mr. Thune,
Mr. Blunt, Mr. Cruz, Mrs. Fischer, Mr.
Moran, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Gardner, Mrs.
Blackburn, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Lee, Mr. John-
son, Mr. Young, Mr. Scott (FL).
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL RE-
SOURCES: Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Barrasso, Mr.
Risch, Mr. Lee, Mr. Daines, Mr. Cassidy, Mr.
Gardner, Mrs. Hyde-Smith, Ms. McSally, Mr.
Alexander, Mr. Hoeven.
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS: Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Inhofe, Mrs. Cap-
ito, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Braun, Mr. Rounds, Mr.
Sullivan, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Wicker, Mr.
Shelby, Ms. Ernst.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE: Mr. Grassley, Mr.
Crapo, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Cornyn,
Mr. Thune, Mr. Burr, Mr. Isakson, Mr.
Portman, Mr. Toomey, Mr. Scott (SC), Mr.
Cassidy, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Daines, Mr.
Young.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS: Mr.
Risch, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gardner,
Mr. Romney, Mr. Graham, Mr. Isakson, Mr.
Barrasso, Mr. Portman, Mr. Paul, Mr. Young,
Mr. Cruz.
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR,
AND PENSIONS: Mr. Alexander, Mr. Enzi, Mr.
Burr, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Paul, Ms. Collins, Mr.
Cassidy, Mr. Roberts, Ms. Murkowski, Mr.
Scott (SC), Mr. Romney, Mr. Braun.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS: Mr. Johnson, Mr.
Portman, Mr. Paul, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Rom-
ney, Mr. Scott (FL), Mr. Enzi, Mr. Hawley.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY: Mr. Graham,
Mr. Grassley, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Lee, Mr. Cruz,
Mr. Sasse, Mr. Hawley, Mr. Tillis, Ms. Ernst,
Mr. Crapo, Mr. Kennedy, Mrs. Blackburn.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE: Mr.
Burr, Mr. Risch, Mr. Rubio, Ms. Collins, Mr.
Blunt, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Sasse.
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING: Ms. Collins,
Mr. Scott (SC), Mr. Burr, Ms. McSally, Mr.
Rubio, Mr. Hawley, Mr. Braun, Mr. Scott
(FL).
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET: Mr. Enzi, Mr.
Grassley, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Graham, Mr.
Toomey, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Perdue, Mr.
Braun, Mr. Scott (FL), Mr. Kennedy, Mr.
Cramer.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS: Mr. Hoeven,
Mr. Barrasso, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Lankford,
Mr. Daines, Ms. McSally, Mr. Moran.
JOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEE: Mr. Lee, Mr.
Cotton, Mr. Sasse, Mr. Portman, Mr. Cas-
sidy, Mr. Cruz.
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION:
Mr. Blunt, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Alexander,
Mr. Roberts, Mr. Shelby, Mr. Cruz, Mrs. Cap-
ito, Mr. Wicker, Mrs. Fischer, Mrs. Hyde-
Smith.
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND ENTRE-
PRENEURSHIP: Mr. Rubio, Mr. Risch, Mr.
Paul, Mr. Scott (SC), Ms. Ernst, Mr. Inhofe,
Mr. Young, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Romney, Mr.
Hawley.
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS: Mr.
Isakson, Mr. Moran, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Cas-
sidy, Mr. Rounds, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Sullivan,
Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Cramer.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON ETHICS: Mr. Isakson,
Mr. Roberts, Mr. Risch.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, in
the 112th Congress the Senate adopted
a new funding allocation for Senate
committees. This approach has served
the Senate well for the past three Con-
gresses. I believe this approach will
continue to serve the interests of the
Senate and the public, regardless of
which party is in the majority, by help-
ing to retain core committee staff with
institutional knowledge. This funding
allocation is based on the party divi-
sion of the Senate, with 10 percent of
the total majority and minority salary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA6.022 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S106 January 9, 2019
baseline going to the majority for ad-
ministrative expenses. However, re-
gardless of the party division of the
Senate, the minority share of the ma-
jority and minority salary baseline will
never be less than 40 percent, and the
majority share will not exceed 60 per-
cent. It is my intent that this approach
will continue to serve the Senate for
this Congress and future Congresses.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, this ap-
proach met our needs for the last three
Congresses, and I too would like to see
it continue. In addition, special re-
serves have been restored to its his-
toric purpose. We should continue to
fund special reserves to the extent pos-
sible in order to be able to assist com-
mittees that face urgent, unantici-
pated, nonrecurring needs. Recognizing
the tight budgets we will face for the
foreseeable future, it is necessary to
continue to bring funding authoriza-
tions more in line with our actual re-
sources while ensuring that commit-
tees are able to fulfill their responsibil-
ities. I look forward to continuing to
work with the majority leader to ac-
complish this.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that a joint leader-
ship letter be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
WE MUTUALLY COMMIT TO THE FOL-
LOWING FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS: The
Committee on Rules and Administration is
to determine the budgets of the committees
of the Senate. The budgets of the commit-
tees, including joint and special committees,
and all other subgroups, shall be apportioned
to reflect the ratio of the Senate as of this
date, including an additional ten percent
(10%) from the majority and minority salary
baseline to be allocated to the chairman for
administrative expenses.
Special Reserves has been restored to its
historic purpose. Requests for funding will
only be considered when submitted by a com-
mittee chairman and ranking member for
unanticipated, non-recurring needs. Such re-
quests shall be granted only upon the ap-
proval of the chairman and ranking member
of the Committee on Rules and Administra-
tion.
Funds for committee expenses shall be
available to each chairman consistent with
the Senate rules and practices of the 115th
Congress.
The division of committee office space
shall be commensurate with this funding
agreement.
The chairman and ranking member of any
committee may, by mutual agreement, mod-
ify the apportionment of committee funding
and office space.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 13—TO CON-
STITUTE THE MINORITY PAR-
TY’S MEMBERSHIP ON CERTAIN
COMMITTEES FOR THE ONE HUN-
DRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS, OR
UNTIL THEIR SUCCESSORS ARE
CHOSEN
Mr. SCHUMER submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 13
Resolved, That the following shall con-
stitute the minority party’s membership on
the following committees for the One Hun-
dred Sixteenth Congress, or until their suc-
cessors are chosen:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION,
AND FORESTRY: Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Leahy,
Mr. Brown, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Bennet, Mrs.
Gillibrand, Mr. Casey, Ms. Smith, Mr. Dur-
bin.
COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS: Mr. Leahy,
Mrs. Murray, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Durbin,
Mr. Reed, Mr. Tester, Mr. Udall, Mrs. Sha-
heen, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Coons, Mr. Schatz,
Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Manchin, Mr.
Van Hollen.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES: Mr. Reed,
Mrs. Shaheen, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr.
Blumenthal, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Kaine, Mr.
King, Mr. Heinrich, Ms. Warren, Mr. Peters,
Mr. Manchin, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Jones.
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND
URBAN AFFAIRS: Mr. Brown, Mr. Reed, Mr.
Menendez, Mr. Tester, Mr. Warner, Ms. War-
ren, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Cortez
Masto, Mr. Jones, Ms. Smith, Ms. Sinema.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION: Ms. Cantwell, Ms. Klo-
buchar, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Schatz, Mr.
Markey, Mr. Udall, Mr. Peters, Ms. Baldwin,
Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Tester, Ms. Sinema, Ms.
Rosen.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL RE-
SOURCES: Mr. Manchin, Ms. Cantwell, Mr.
Wyden, Mr. Sanders, Ms. Stabenow, Mr.
Heinrich, Ms. Hirono, Mr. King, Ms. Cortez
Masto.
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS: Mr. Carper, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Sanders,
Mr. Whitehouse, Mr. Merkley, Mrs. Gilli-
brand, Mr. Booker, Mr. Markey, Ms.
Duckworth, Mr. Van Hollen.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE: Mr. Wyden, Ms.
Stabenow, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Menendez, Mr.
Carper, Mr. Cardin, Mr. Brown, Mr. Bennet,
Mr. Casey, Mr. Warner, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms.
Hassan, Ms. Cortez Masto.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS: Mr.
Menendez, Mr. Cardin, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr.
Coons, Mr. Udall, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Kaine,
Mr. Markey, Mr. Merkley, Mr. Booker.
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR,
AND PENSIONS: Mrs. Murray, Mr. Sanders,
Mr. Casey, Ms. Baldwin, Mr. Murphy, Ms.
Warren, Mr. Kaine, Ms. Hassan, Ms. Smith,
Mr. Jones, Ms. Rosen.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS: Mr. Peters, Mr.
Carper, Ms. Hassan, Ms. Harris, Ms. Sinema,
Ms. Rosen.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE: Mr.
Warner (Vice Chairman), Mrs. Feinstein, Mr.
Wyden, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. King, Ms. Harris,
Mr. Bennet. Mr. Reed (ex officio), Mr. Schu-
mer (ex officio).
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY: Mrs. Fein-
stein, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Durbin, Mr. White-
house, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Coons, Mr.
Blumenthal, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Booker, Ms.
Harris.
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET: Mr. Sanders,
Mrs. Murray, Mr. Wyden, Ms. Stabenow, Mr.
Whitehouse, Mr. Warner, Mr. Merkley, Mr.
Kaine, Mr. Van Hollen, Ms. Harris.
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION:
Ms. Klobuchar, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Schumer,
Mr. Durbin, Mr. Udall, Mr. Warner, Mr.
Leahy, Mr. King, Ms. Cortez Masto.
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND ENTRE-
PRENEURSHIP: Mr. Cardin, Ms. Cantwell, Mrs.
Shaheen, Mr. Markey, Mr. Booker, Mr.
Coons, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Duckworth, Ms.
Rosen.
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS: Mr.
Tester, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Sanders, Mr.
Brown, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Hirono, Mr.
Manchin, Ms. Sinema.
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING: Mr. Casey,
Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. War-
ren, Mr. Jones, Ms. Sinema, Ms. Rosen.
JOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEE: Mr. Heinrich,
Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Peters, Ms. Hassan.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON ETHICS: Mr. Coons
(Vice Chairman), Mr. Schatz, Mrs. Shaheen.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS: Mr. Udall
(Vice Chairman), Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Tester,
Mr. Schatz, Ms. Cortez Masto, Ms. Smith.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that privileges of
the floor be granted to the following
member of my staff: Heidi Steele, a fel-
low in my office, during the pendency
of the 116th Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that Dimitrios Meritis,
a fellow in my office, be granted privi-
leges of the floor for this session of
Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 251, H.R. 264, AND H.R.
269
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there are three bills at the
desk, and I ask for their first reading
en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the titles of the bills for
the first time en bloc.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 251) to extend by two years the
Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program of the Department of Homeland Se-
curity, and for other purposes.
A bill (H.R. 264) making appropriations for
financial services and general government
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes.
A bill (H.R. 269) to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under the Public Health Service Act
and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act with respect to public health security
and all-hazards preparedness and response,
to clarify the regulatory framework with re-
spect to certain nonprescription drugs that
are marketed without an approved drug ap-
plication, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I now ask for a
second reading, and I object to my own
request, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard. The bills will receive
their second readings on the next busi-
ness day.
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY,
JANUARY 10, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Thursday, Janu-
ary 10; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, that following
leader remarks, the Senate resume
consideration of the motion to proceed
to S. 1; finally, notwithstanding the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jan 18, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\S09JA9.REC S09JA9
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S107
January 9, 2019
provisions of rule XXII, the cloture
vote with respect to the motion to pro-
ceed to S. 1 occur at 1:45 p.m.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the previous order, fol-
lowing the remarks of Senator
MERKLEY.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Oregon.
f
DEMOCRACY
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, the
most important words in our Constitu-
tion are the first three: ‘‘We the Peo-
ple.’’ With these three simple words,
our Founders laid out the mission for
our government; that is, a government
to produce a form of legislation that
reflects the will of the American people
or, as Lincoln summarized it, a govern-
ment of, by, and for the people.
That mission is being corrupted and
damaged in a significant and extensive
fashion. It is being damaged with a
goal of converting this vision of ‘‘We
the People’’ to a government by and for
the powerful and the privileged. That
corruption, that fundamental corrup-
tion of our government, comes in many
forms, but it certainly includes gerry-
mandering, voter suppression, voter in-
timidation, and dark money in our
campaigns flooding our system with
unidentified resources to serve the
powerful and the privileged rather than
the people.
We in this Chamber, having taken an
oath of allegiance to our Constitution,
ought to be defending it, but we are
not. The result is, we see many chal-
lenges facing our Nation unaddressed:
stagnant wages and soaring income in-
equality, huge wealth inequality; sky-
rocketing healthcare costs;
unaffordable higher education and
homeownership; rent so high they drive
people to live in tents; catastrophic cli-
mate chaos wreaking havoc on our
planet with uncontrolled carbon pollu-
tion.
We have been paralyzed on these
issues because of this corruption of our
Constitution, because of the gerry-
mandering, because of the voter sup-
pression intimidation, because of the
dark money. It has allowed the hijack-
ing of our Constitution, and we need to
end it. It has been hijacked by cor-
porate and Wall Street executives
swimming in recordbreaking profits
and trillion-dollar tax breaks, shut-
tering American factories and shipping
jobs overseas. It has been hijacked by
fossil fuel barons who exhibit a greed
for profits that trumps the direct dam-
age—or concern about the direct dam-
age they are inflicting on our beautiful
blue-green planet. It has been hijacked
by cabals of shadowy organizations,
using vast sums of dark money, no
identified source, to influence and buy
elections, undermining our institutions
at every level and driving massive cyn-
icism among our youth.
Our youth look at our government,
and they see those beautiful words:
‘‘We the People,’’ and then they see the
corruption, the corruption this body is
doing nothing to address—not the ger-
rymandering, not the voter suppres-
sion, not the dark money. It is time to
change that.
I have laid out a blueprint for our
‘‘we the people’’ democracy. I unveiled
this document last week. I am happy to
provide copies to anyone. It is avail-
able on the web. It is a blueprint for re-
storing our democracy that takes on
the corrupting influence of dark
money, takes on the corrupting influ-
ence of gerrymandering, takes on the
corruption of voter suppression to en-
sure equal representation for every
American.
Let’s start by looking at dark
money. We need to pass Senator
UDALL’s constitutional amendment
that overturns Citizens United and
thereby end the corruption of the un-
limited dark money.
According to one analysis, the top 15
dark money groups in America has
spent over $600 million on campaign-re-
lated activities in the last few years.
That is just the top 15 groups, writing
check after check to drown out the
voice of the people. It is kind of like
the dark money is a stadium sound sys-
tem cranked up to the top volume so
voices and concerns of millions of ordi-
nary Americans are wiped out, un-
heard, unlistened to; thus, driving deci-
sions of this body in favor of the power-
ful instead of the people.
It is why we need to give Congress
the ability to set reasonable limits on
campaign spending and donations
through that constitutional amend-
ment. That is why we need to increase
transparency on all money in the cam-
paign system through Senator WHITE-
HOUSE’s DISCLOSE Act. His act calls
for robust disclosure for corporate
union, PACs, 501(c)(3)s that contribute
over $10,000. It is why we need trans-
parency through Senator KLOBUCHAR’s
Honest Ads Act, which addresses the
transparency of online ads, which are
becoming a bigger and bigger part of
our dialogue over campaigns in this
country, the social media side. It re-
quires those who purchase and publish
those online ads to publicly disclose
their financing.
Thomas Jefferson laid out how im-
portant an equal distribution of power
is among the voters. He called it his
equal voice principle, and he said this:
‘‘[A] government is republican in pro-
portion as every member composing it
has his equal voice in the direction of
its concerns’’—equal voice. He said in
this letter, after he was President, that
if we lose this, which he called the
mother principle of our democracy, we
would not have laws that reflect the
will of the people.
So here we are with the mother prin-
ciple—a distribution of power among
voters, a distribution of voice among
voters. That, as the securing factor for
government, reflects the will of the
people.
This is in complete opposition to the
concentration of power through Citi-
zens United.
Let us turn to the corruption from
gerrymandering. Now, there is a bit of
a challenge to define what gerry-
mandering is, but let’s try putting it
this way: the drawing of funny-shaped
districts in order to unbalance fair rep-
resentation of voters in a State.
Now, here are some of the warning
signs if you want to say it is gerry-
mandered. First, look to the districts
and see if they are of funny shapes like
these—like Nebraska, like the Fifth
Congressional District in Florida, like
the Seventh Congressional District in
Pennsylvania, like the Maryland Third
Congressional District, like the North
Carolina First District, and the Texas
Thirty-third District—blue States, red
States, all exhibiting varieties of ger-
rymandering.
Another way to look at gerry-
mandering is to look at an imbalance
in wasted votes. That is, you take the
number of votes required to elect
someone in a particular congressional
district and add up the surplus of those
votes, and you add those up on the
Democratic side and you add those up
on the Republican side, and if there is
a huge imbalance in the wasted votes,
then probably these districts have been
drawn to unbalance fair representation
for people in the State.
A third way to look at gerry-
mandering is to look at whether the
congressional representation in the
House of Representatives is propor-
tional to the popular vote totals in a
State.
So those three things are warning
signs.
How should this be addressed? It
should be addressed through having na-
tional standards for independent redis-
tricting commissions so that the citi-
zens of the United States across the en-
tire United States get fair representa-
tion in Congress and for the ridding of
gerrymandering in the United States of
America.
In 2016, North Carolina Republicans
had 53 percent of the State’s popular
vote in House races but 77 percent of
the congressional seats. That is a sign
of gerrymandering. The same year,
Pennsylvania Democrats won 48 per-
cent of the popular vote in their State
but only had 27 percent of the House
seats.
So these are signs of a rigged system,
and if you want to drive cynicism, keep
a rigged system.
The House of Representatives is sup-
posed to stand for equal representation
for people, not for a biased, corrupted,
rigged system that we get from gerry-
mandering.
So we need to take the power for re-
districting out of the hands of partisan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.041 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S108 January 9, 2019
elected officials and put it in the hands
of independent commissions to draw
fair, competitive congressional dis-
tricts to truly reflect the voters’
voices.
Now, as for that Pennsylvania gerry-
mandered seat that I referred to, after
the 2016 election, the State supreme
court stepped in and redrew the dis-
trict lines to make them more fair and
representative.
So what happened? Let’s compare
2016 to 2018.
In 2016, you had the Democrats re-
ceiving 48 percent of the popular vote
and 27 percent of the congressional dis-
tricts, a gap of more than 20 percent.
After the redrawing, you had Demo-
crats receiving 53 percent of the pop-
ular vote across the State and winning
50 percent of the contested seats. So a
gap of 21 percent goes down to a gap of
just 3 percent. That is a sign that the
State has been more fairly drawn to re-
flect the distribution of voters. It
shows that the voters are being heard
and that the corruption of gerry-
mandering is being ended. But it
shouldn’t just be ended in Pennsyl-
vania. It should be ended across the
country.
Now, the U.S. Supreme Court has
punted on gerrymandering. In fact, it
has been at the heart of each of these
three corrupting practices: unleashing
dark money through Citizens United;
striking down the Voting Rights Act of
1965, allowing an unlimited set of strat-
egies—a huge set of strategies—for
voter suppression and voter intimida-
tion; and never taking on the issue of
gerrymandering.
Maybe the U.S. Supreme Court
should read the Constitution and real-
ize what Jefferson was talking about
and realize that it is their job to defend
the integrity of the United States of
America and take on these corrupting
forces that they themselves have un-
leashed in two instances and failed to
take on in the third.
Well, voter suppression and voter in-
timidation are certainly alive and well
as corrupting forces. That is why the
Blueprint for Democracy calls for the
passage of Senator LEAHY’s Voting
Rights Advancement Act. The bill
would restore and modernize the Vot-
ing Rights Act of 1965, which the Su-
preme Court tore down in 2013 with
their decision in Shelby County v.
Holder.
Now, realize that the Voting Rights
Act reauthorization had vast bipar-
tisan support here in the Senate. This
wasn’t a partisan bill. The voting right
is the fundamental foundation of our
democratic republic, and it had broad
bipartisan support, as it should. But
the Supreme Court, in the interest of
the powerful and privileged, tore
down—they are no longer the defenders
of the vision of our Constitution but
the destroyers of the ‘‘we the people’’
vision of our Constitution. That should
concern every Member in this body.
We have seen rampant voter suppres-
sion in our national elections used to
block entire groups of people from ex-
ercising their constitutional rights at
the ballot box.
Just this last November, we saw
thousands of Native Americans living
on Tribal reserves in North Dakota
kept from casting a ballot. In Georgia,
we saw the former secretary of state,
who was running for Governor, attempt
to block 53,000 Georgians, predomi-
nantly African Americans, from voting
because of what were described as
minor clerical inconsistencies. We saw
thousands of Ohio voters purged from
voting rolls on the order of the sec-
retary of state of Ohio, and done so in
a way disproportionately benefiting
one party over the other.
That is just scratching the surface of
the list of deplorable schemes to dis-
enfranchise American voters.
There was one positive development
that was in Florida, where Florida re-
stored the ability of felons to vote
after they have served their sentences.
Now, this process of taking away the
ability of felons to vote has a deep,
deep history of racism in our country.
It was used after the Civil War to dis-
enfranchise Black Americans so that
White Americans could control areas
that were predominantly African
American.
So this use of the felon disenfran-
chisement—failure to restore the right
to vote after you have served your sen-
tence—is something that has to be put
away, and Florida set a great example
in doing so.
There is much more that we can do.
We can have a polling place protection
act, because the manipulation of poll-
ing places is just an irresistible strat-
egy for election clerks. They move the
polling places. They cut the hours of
polling. Disinformation is put out
about where they are. You have a proc-
ess where some polling places that
serve predominantly one community
that may vote primarily on one party
suddenly don’t have enough clerks or
enough voting machines so they have
long lines here and short lines there to
warp the outcome of an election.
So how about a polling place protec-
tion act? Isn’t that something Demo-
crats and Republicans can come to-
gether and do?
How about predatory purging of
voter lists, where you analyze the vot-
ing list and decide for rules on purging
voters in order to disproportionately
favor one party over the other? Why
not have standard policies across the
country so that purging in a predatory
partisan fashion is done away with?
Shouldn’t that be something on which
Democrats and Republicans can come
together and defend the integrity of
American elections?
How about requiring paper ballots so
that every election can be recounted? I
always heard about these electronic
voting machines with no paper ballots.
Now, out in Oregon, we insist on paper
ballots. We want people to have con-
fidence that the election has not been
messed with, that the voting machines
have not been hacked.
I remember listening to a radio news
story where a person went in and
hacked the voting machine while they
were on the radio with the reporter and
changed the vote totals.
So shouldn’t we require paper ballots
that can be recounted to give con-
fidence in America that the vote is not
being hacked? Isn’t that something
that Democrats and Republicans can
come together to support? Isn’t it
something that helps to make sure
that foreign agents—Russian agents,
Chinese agents, who knows whom—are
not trying to hack our elections?
While we are at it, how about a na-
tional standard for early voting to en-
sure that people have the flexibility to
come to the polls, to make sure the
hours are not manipulated in a fashion
to try to favor one party over the
other.
Better yet, how about Senator
WYDEN’s Vote By Mail Act? In Oregon,
we have a special affection for this.
Back when I was first running for the
Oregon House of Representatives 20
years ago, in my first election, half the
people of Oregon voted by mail and half
at the polls, and I started going door to
door to campaign, and I didn’t really
like this whole vote-by-mail idea be-
cause I felt it was important for the
community to do something together
on election day.
As I knocked on one door after an-
other, one senior after another said:
No, I really love this ability to vote by
mail, because if it is rainy or icy in No-
vember, if there is snow that makes it
hard to get to the polling place, it is no
problem.
They said: And moreover, I really
love to be at the kitchen table with my
children or with my grandchildren and
have the ability, then, to talk with
them about these issues as we vote and
inculcate them with the civic responsi-
bility of voting.
Another said: You know, here in Or-
egon we have initiatives that can be
very complicated. I love to sit at my
kitchen table and study these initia-
tives and vote.
So I realized how popular it was. So
there it was—vote by mail, a very im-
portant contribution to the possibility
of high integrity in elections of the
United States of America.
This last November, we had nation-
wide about 47 percent of the eligible
adults voting—about 47 percent. That
was better than 2014, when we had 37
percent. So that is pretty good—47 per-
cent.
In Oregon, with vote by mail, we had
68 percent of the eligible adults vot-
ing—20 percent over the national
standard. So that gives you a little
sense of how automatic voter registra-
tion and vote by mail can make a dif-
ference in enabling people to fully par-
ticipate.
If you believe in the vision of a demo-
cratic republic, don’t you want to be on
the side of voter engagement—not
voter intimidation, not voter suppres-
sion?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.043 S09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S109
January 9, 2019
A fourth area is equal representation.
So we have had a number of elections
where we created a discrepancy be-
tween the popular vote and the out-
come for President—another factor
driving citizens. The whole electoral
college was set up in a world in which
communication was very difficult. It
might take weeks to get the votes to
the Capitol, but that is not the world
we live in any longer.
So isn’t it time to go to a direct
vote?
Back in the 2000 election, 48 percent
of the voters picked Al Gore for Presi-
dent, and that was a majority, but we
had 8 years of George Bush.
The electoral college is antiquated—
an antiquated idea based on a histor-
ical factor of communication that no
longer exists.
So let’s move to direct vote, either
through the national popular vote,
which can be done State by State by
State by sending their electoral votes
to the candidate who wins the major-
ity, or through a constitutional amend-
ment.
And while we are at it, let’s give vot-
ing representation in the House and
Senate to the 4 million people who cur-
rently are American citizens who do
not have a vote in the Presidential
election.
While we are at it, let’s give voting
representation in the House and Senate
to the 4 million people who currently
are American citizens who do not have
a vote in the House or Senate. For the
people of Puerto Rico, Guam, a number
of other Territories, and the Virgin Is-
lands, shouldn’t there at least be one
person in this Chamber representing
them?
I went down to Puerto Rico 8 months
after the big hurricane to look at the
restoration, and the restoration pro-
gram was horrific. I came away think-
ing, if there was somebody who stood
in this Chamber with a vote or in the
House Chamber with a vote and could
speak to the abysmal restoration of in-
frastructure after that hurricane, it
would not have been such a disaster.
We would all have listened and re-
sponded and helped. But there was no-
body here that represented them. A
number of us tried to carry their mes-
sage, their plea, but it is different than
having somebody who carries a vote.
So let’s figure out a system—some
system. No system will satisfy every-
one, but give at least a vote in the Sen-
ate and a vote in the House for the por-
tion of the population of those Amer-
ican citizens who do not have a vote.
So our constitutional system is in
very deep trouble. When I came into
political life we had a Voting Rights
Act that had taken on the issue of
voter intimidation and voter suppres-
sion. We don’t have it today, thanks to
the Supreme Court. Corruption is in-
habiting our ‘‘we the people’’ Constitu-
tion.
When I came in we had a system that
was much more transparent with peo-
ple making donations to candidates,
and today we have vast dark money
corrupting the system.
Gerrymandering has been with us for
a long time. Isn’t it time that we ad-
dress that? Shouldn’t it be a situation
in which voters pick their representa-
tives, not representatives picking their
voters? Isn’t it time to address a na-
tional popular vote?
We have allowed so much to happen.
We haven’t pushed back the failure of
the Supreme Court to defend our Con-
stitution. When they struck down the
Voting Rights Act, they said Congress
can repass another one. But have we
done so? Have we had a vote on the
floor of the Senate since the Voting
Rights Act was struck down? Do we
have bipartisan buy-in that it is our re-
sponsibility to protect voters to have a
fair process? If not, why not? It is way
past time. So let each of us ponder the
vision of our Constitution—the ‘‘we the
people’’ vision of our Constitution.
Let’s remember that we took an oath
to honor this vision and that we are
failing. Now, in recognition of that,
let’s come together—Democrats and
Republicans, House Members and Sen-
ate Members—and take on this vast
corruption that is destroying the fun-
damental vision on which our Nation
was founded—a vision I love, a vision
that will produce laws by and for the
people, a vision that produces laws the
reflect, as Thomas Jefferson said, the
will of the people.
Thank you, Mr. President.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate stands adjourned until 10 a.m. to-
morrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:44 p.m.,
adjourned until Thursday, January 10,
2019, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
HEATH P. TARBERT, OF MARYLAND, TO BE CHAIRMAN
OF THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION,
VICE J. CHRISTOPHER GIANCARLO.
HEATH P. TARBERT, OF MARYLAND, TO BE A COMMIS-
SIONER OF THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMIS-
SION FOR A TERM EXPIRING APRIL 13, 2024 , VICE J.
CHRISTOPHER GIANCARLO, TERM EXPIRING.
NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
MICHAEL GRAHAM, OF KANSAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD FOR A
TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 31, 2020, VICE EARL F.
WEENER, TERM EXPIRED.
JENNIFER L. HOMENDY, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
FOR A TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 31, 2024. (REAPPOINT-
MENT)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
ANDREW WHEELER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY,
VICE SCOTT PRUITT.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
GEOFFREY WILLIAM SEIJI OKAMOTO, OF CALIFORNIA,
TO BE DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
VICE RAMIN TOLOUI.
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be general
LT. GEN. MICHAEL X. GARRETT
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:14 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G09JA6.044 S09JAPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E23
January 9, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BRAD R. WENSTRUP
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, due to a
meeting at the White House, I was unable to
vote during the following roll calls on Decem-
ber 21, 2018. Had I been present, I would
have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 483; YEA on
Roll Call No. 484; YEA on Roll Call No. 485;
YEA on Roll Call No. 486; YEA on Roll Call
No. 487; YEA on Roll Call No. 488; YEA on
Roll Call No. 489; YEA on Roll Call No. 490;
YEA on Roll Call No. 491; YEA on Roll Call
No. 492; YEA on Roll Call No. 493; YEA on
Roll Call No. 494; YEA on Roll Call No. 495;
YEA on Roll Call No. 496; YEA on Roll Call
No. 497; and YEA on Roll Call No. 498.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE SAC-
RAMENTO-SAN JOAQUIN DELTA
NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA ACT
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, today I
reintroduced the Sacramento-San Joaquin
Delta National Heritage Area Act. I want to
thank my colleagues, Representatives JERRY
MCNERNEY, MARK DESAULNIER, MIKE THOMP-
SON, and DORIS MATSUI from California, for
their support as original cosponsors.
The Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta is cen-
tral to California life and perhaps the most pro-
ductive and ecologically important watershed
in the United States. Designating the Delta as
a new Natural Heritage Area would unlock
needed federal funding to conserve the cul-
tural heritage and natural character of this
iconic working landscape.
Specifically, our bill would authorize $10 mil-
lion to provide federal matching grants to local
governments, historical societies, and non-
profit organizations throughout the Delta. This
grant funding, administered by the National
Park Service, would be available for 15 years
to support community-based cultural and his-
torical preservation and environmental con-
servation projects.
California’s Delta Protection Commission
would be responsible for coordinating the lo-
cally developed management plan for the Sac-
ramento-San Joaquin Delta National Heritage
Area, once established. Importantly, National
Heritage Area designations do not impact
water rights, landownership, or hunting and
fishing within the designated Heritage Area.
As confirmed by the National Park Service,
which administers the program, National Herit-
age Area designations do not affect individual
property rights nor do they restrict local land
use decisions.
Last year, for the first time in 5 years, the
Natural Resources Committee reported out bi-
partisan bills to establish new National Herit-
age Areas. Now under the new Democratic
majority and the leadership of Chairman RAÚL
M. GRIJALVA (D–AZ), I hope that the Com-
mittee will take up our Sacramento-San Joa-
quin Delta National Heritage Area Act.
Again, I thank my original cosponsors from
the California delegation for their support.
Madam Speaker, I urge all Members to join us
in cosponsoring the Sacramento-San Joaquin
Delta National Heritage Area Act.
f
CONGRATULATING COACH CHRIS
METZGER OF PINECREST HIGH
SCHOOL U.S. CELLULAR 2018
MOST VALUABLE COACH
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Chris Metzger, the 2018 U.S.
Cellular Most Valuable Coach from Pinecrest
High School in North Carolina’s Eighth Con-
gressional District.
Chris has served as the head football coach
for the last 11 years and has had a tremen-
dous impact on the football program and com-
munity. Pinecrest High School and the football
program are pillars in the community that bor-
ders Fort Bragg. When he started, the pro-
gram was struggling to compete and most stu-
dents were not academically eligible to play.
Today, the team has 84 wins and his players
are successful on and off the field.
Coach Metzger is a man of high character
and sees the positive in people. He has in-
stilled a sense of pride in his players and
pushed them to be men of perseverance, hard
work, and determination. He has encouraged
them to recognize their blessings and give
back to the community.
U.S. Cellular awarded Coach Metzger and
Pinecrest High School with a $50,000 school
grant and a Samsung technology package for
the school. Coach Metzger was nominated by
people in the community and chosen by a
panel of judges including Green Bay Packers
wide receiver Randall Cobb and WNBA All-
Star Maya Moore.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Coach Chris Metzger on receiv-
ing the 2018 U.S. Cellular Most Valuable
Coach Award.
f
RECOGNIZING THE OUTSTANDING
ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE
BEAR LAKE MEMORIAL HOS-
PITAL IN MONTPELIER, IDAHO
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to call attention to an outstanding rural hos-
pital in Southeast Idaho. The hospital I am re-
ferring to is the Bear Lake Memorial Hospital.
This hospital was honored with two prestigious
awards in 2018 by the National Rural Health
Association. They were awarded Top 20 hon-
ors as a Critical Access Hospital and for Best
Practices in Quality among rural hospitals.
Bear Lake Memorial Hospital is located in
Montpelier, Idaho, in the Southeast corner of
Idaho. Montpelier is the biggest town in Bear
Lake County. It is a small town with a popu-
lation of less than 3,000, yet manages to pro-
vide some of the best rural healthcare in our
nation.
The National Rural Health Association com-
pared Bear Lake Memorial Hospital with over
1300 other critical access hospitals. Bear Lake
Memorial Hospital scored in the 99.6th per-
centile overall, making them one of the Top 20
Critical Access Hospitals in the country.
Bear Lake Memorial Hospital was also
awarded Top 20 Best Practices in Quality
among the 1300 rural hospitals surveyed. This
award is based on a hospital’s exceptional
performance across five categories of Hospital
Compare Process of Care measures. Bear
Lake Memorial Hospital is being recognized by
National Rural Health Association for the out-
standing quality of service and care they de-
liver to their patients and community.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DINA TITUS
OF NEVADA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Ms. TITUS. Madam Speaker, I was absent
January 8, 2019. If I were present, I would
have voted on the following:
Roll No. 13—H.R. 269—On motion to sus-
pend the rules and pass the bill: Yea;
Roll No. 14—H.R. 251—On motion to sus-
pend the rules and pass the bill: Yea; and
Roll No. 15—JOURNAL—On approving the
journal: Yea.
f
RECOGNIZING SUPERVISOR MAR-
ION ASHLEY FOR HIS YEARS OF
PUBLIC SERVICE
HON. RAUL RUIZ
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. RUIZ. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Supervisor Marion Ashley on his re-
tirement after more than twenty-five years of
serving in elected office.
Since 2002, Supervisor Ashley has been a
tireless advocate for Riverside County’s Fifth
District, bringing his energy, leadership, and
enthusiasm to the cause of serving his con-
stituents. As we have worked together over
the years, I’ve known Supervisor Ashley to be
a man of integrity and compassion, always
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09JA8.001 E09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E24 January 9, 2019
ready to put the interests of others before his
own.
Supervisor Ashley grew up in Riverside
County, and like me, has had the privilege of
returning home to serve the community that
helped raise him. To see his positive impact
on towns like Banning, Beaumont, and
Calimesa, you only need to look around. You’ll
see medical centers, public parks, wildlife con-
servation areas, and fire stations that exist
thanks to his advocacy.
During his decades of public service, Super-
visor Ashley has demonstrated his strong
commitment to positioning Riverside County
as a leader in environmental conservation and
renewable energy. He has helped Riverside
County protect our Desert habitats and wildlife
and become a national leader in wind and
solar energy. He has personally donated hun-
dreds of acres of land in pursuit of those
goals.
Throughout his tenure, Supervisor Ashley
has shown a willingness to work on a bipar-
tisan basis. He has welcomed innovative ideas
and treated opponents and allies with respect.
In retirement, I hope Supervisor Ashley will
enjoy spending more time with Mary, his wife
of more than sixty years, and their six chil-
dren, 19 grandchildren, and 9 great-grand-
children. On behalf of communities across Riv-
erside County, it is my honor to congratulate
Supervisor Ashley on a well-earned retire-
ment.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DOUG LaMALFA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, due to
flight issues, I was not able to get back to
Washington DC in time for votes on January
8, 2019.
Had I been present, I would have voted Nay
on Roll Call No. 013 (H.R. 269), Yea on Roll
Call No. 014 (H.R. 251), and Nay on Roll Call
No. 15.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF VICENTE ‘‘BEN’’ GUMATAOTAO
HON. MICHAEL F.Q. SAN NICOLAS
OF GUAM
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and legacy of Vicente
‘‘Ben’’ Diaz Gumataotao. ‘‘Mayor Ben,’’ as he
was widely known as, was steadfast in his
dedication to serving the people of Guam and
his country. In his 91 years of life, Mayor Ben
achieved significant milestones that not only
inspired generations but opened doors for
those who came after him.
Mayor Ben was born on November 30, 1927
to the late Josefina Diaz and the late Leon
Diaz Gumataotao. The third child of twelve
children, Mayor Ben and his family resided in
the pre-World War II village of Sumay. Mayor
Ben and his family lived through the traumatic
events during the Japanese Occupation of
Guam during World War II. In one instance,
his family was forced to march to the
Manenggon Hills concentration camp where
he witnessed the atrocities executed by the
Japanese soldiers.
Grateful for the United States military’s re-
turn to the island and overthrow of the Japa-
nese Imperial government’s control over
Guam, Mayor Ben served over twenty-eight
years in the United States Navy where he
completed Mess Management School and in-
structed fellow stewards. He retired at the
highest enlisted rank in the United States
Navy, the rank of Master Chief Petty Officer
(E–9).
After his service to his country, Mayor Ben
began his service to the people of Guam
working for various senators in the Guam Leg-
islature and later for former Congressman
Vicente C. Blaz during the 101st and 102nd
United States Congress.
He answered the call of his fellow residents
and successfully was elected Mayor of the vil-
lage of Piti. Significant improvements through-
out the village continue to be seen and felt
due to Mayor Ben’s unwavering leadership
during his tenure as Mayor. In his lifetime, his
advocacy and dedication to public service was
appreciated through the various civic and reli-
gious organizations he was actively engaged
in throughout the island of Guam.
I am deeply saddened by the passing of
Mayor Vicente ‘‘Ben’’ Diaz Gumataotao, and I
join the people of Guam in celebrating his life
and the legacy he left. A dedicated public
servant, he worked to improve the quality of
life in his village of Piti and in the wider com-
munity in Guam during his lifetime. My
thoughts and prayers are with his family, loved
ones, and friends. Mayor Ben will be deeply
missed, and his memory will live on in the
hearts of the people of Guam.
f
HONORING JESSE HERNANDEZ
HON. DAVID SCHWEIKERT
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the memory of Mr. Jesse Her-
nandez, a close member of our Phoenix com-
munity, devoted to his family and spiritual fel-
lowship, and a long-time political activist in Ari-
zona. Jesse not only served as a member of
my district staff, serving as Director of Out-
reach, but he also devoted himself to the Ari-
zona Latino Republican Association, where he
served as Chairman and Executive Director.
His hard work and commitment to his commu-
nity truly helped make a difference in the lives
of his fellow Arizonans. He served his country
proudly in the United States Marine Corps,
and we are forever grateful for his sacrifice
and service to our nation.
Jesse had great love for his family and al-
ways supported everyone in their personal
journeys to grow and learn. He was a role
model and inspiration to his family: Margaret,
James, Jessica, and Elvia, as well as his
grandchildren. To all who knew Jesse, we
shall continue to cherish the memories of his
wit, laughter, love of family, friends and faith,
and his commitment to the Republican Party.
Jesse served unselfishly for the betterment
of others. May we continue to honor his mem-
ory through our passion and service to our
communities.
HONORING L&F DISTRIBUTORS
HON. VICENTE GONZALEZ
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize L&F Distributors and
all of its diligent employees. This year, L&F
Distributors celebrates 40 years of success-
fully serving South Texans premium bev-
erages, and I could not be happier to have
such talented entrepreneurs in my district.
Purchased in 1978 by Joe LaMantia Jr., this
family business started with only a handful of
employees and one location in McAllen,
Texas. Over four decades later, this third-gen-
eration family owned company has taken
Texas by storm with locations across 35 coun-
ties in Texas and now Southern New Mexico.
It is truly an honor to represent such a pres-
tigious example of how impactful local busi-
nesses are in our economies. I look forward to
watching them continue to grow in Texas and
beyond.
Madam Speaker, it is my honor to represent
the hard-working individuals of L&F Distribu-
tors. Their success is a shining example of
what the 15th District of Texas has to offer.
f
THE PASSING OF LORETTA JONES
HON. KAREN BASS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Ms. BASS. Madam Speaker, I would like to
honor the life and memory of a pioneer in the
field of health policy, my long-time friend, col-
league and fellow organizer, Dr. Loretta
Jones, who passed away on November 22.
She was a founding member of the Commu-
nity Coalition for substance abuse Prevention
and Treatment. In fact, she was the first staff
person hired and developed the Coalition’s
Prevention Network. That network brought to-
gether social service providers from South LA
to address substance abuse in the community.
Loretta had a towering passion for justice
and a caregiver’s attention to detail. She
founded Healthy African American Families
(HAAF) in the wake of the 1992 Los Angeles
uprising to engage universities, think tanks,
and community members together to seek so-
lutions to longstanding health problems, in-
cluding the scourge of pre-term births in the
African American community. For this work
she received two honorary doctorates and,
last year, she received the UCLA Medal, the
university’s highest honor, for her career of
working to address inequalities in health and
health outcomes.
She is best known for co-developing meth-
ods that give underserved communities a
greater role in planning and implementing aca-
demic research. Community-Partnered
Participatory Research (CPPR) calls for trans-
parency, accountability and equal power-shar-
ing between academics and communities. In
2007, with UCLA professor Kenneth Wells,
she published the CCPR model in the Journal
of the American Medical Association.
In doing so, she demonstrated another tenet
of CPPR—that community members co-author
research publications alongside academics.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09JA8.006 E09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E25
January 9, 2019
Loretta had that rare ability to serve as a
bridge between the worlds of policy and re-
search, and the everyday lives of the people
she cared about most. She mentored hun-
dreds of physicians, nurses, public health
practitioners, social scientists and community
members to do the same. Those people went
on to become tenured faculty members at
medical schools, state officials and senior ad-
visers in Congress and the White House.
A native of Massachusetts, she earned a
BA in psychology in 1963 and Master’s degree
in criminal justice in 1972, both from North-
eastern University in Boston. She had been a
community faculty member at Charles R. Drew
University of Medicine and Science since
2010. A former foster youth herself, she fos-
tered 20 children in addition to raising her
daughter. She made a real difference in the
world during her 77 years.
Loretta always insisted that ‘‘Everyone de-
serves the right to live, everyone deserves
good health care, and we are all responsible
for making it happen.’’ I mourn her passing
with all of those who loved her. I am grateful
for her compassion, her dedication, and the
work to which she dedicated her life: to em-
power families to lead truly healthy lives.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. LOIS FRANKEL
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Ms. FRANKEL. Madam Speaker, on roll call
votes 13, 14 and 15, I was not present be-
cause I was unavoidably detained. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘YEA’’ on all
three.
f
MEGAN O’GRADY—HIGH SCHOOL
STUDENT FROM CAPE CORAL
HONORS FALLEN POLICE OFFI-
CERS
HON. FRANCIS ROONEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to thank Megan O’Grady, a high
school student from Cape Coral and founder
of Blue Line Bears, for the work she has done
to honor fallen police officers.
Through her non-profit organization, Blue
Line Bears, Megan makes teddy bears using
the uniforms of fallen police officers and deliv-
ers them to the officers’ families. The daughter
of a police officer, Megan was inspired to do
something for the families of law enforcement
in the wake of the murder of 5 police officers
in Dallas.
Megan is especially grateful for the oppor-
tunity to make the bears for children and to
provide them with tangible mementos of their
loved ones. Since she started two years ago,
Megan has made 454 bears for families in 36
states.
I am grateful for Megan and her commit-
ment to honor police officers and I look for-
ward to seeing what the future holds for Blue
Line Bears.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, on
Monday, January 8, 2019, I was unavoidably
detained attending to representational duties
in my congressional district and was not
present for Roll Call Votes 13, 14, and 15.
Had I been present I would have voted as fol-
lows:
On Roll Call 13, I would have voted AYE on
Motion to Suspend the Rules and Pass H.R.
269, Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness
and Advancing Innovation Act of 2019.
On Roll Call 14, I would have voted AYE on
Motion to Suspend the Rules and Pass H.R.
4406, H.R. 251, Chemical Facility Anti-Ter-
rorism Standards Program Extension Act.
On Roll Call 15, I would have voted AYE on
Motion to Approve the Journal.
f
CONGRATULATING CRAIG W.
FLOYD ON HIS RETIREMENT AS
CEO OF THE NATIONAL LAW EN-
FORCEMENT OFFICERS MEMO-
RIAL FUND
HON. PETER T. KING
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. KING of New York. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate Craig W. Floyd, who
retired on December 31, 2018 as the CEO of
the National Law Enforcement Officers Memo-
rial Fund after over 30 years of distinguished
service.
Mr. Floyd has been a strong law enforce-
ment advocate for over 40 years, beginning
with the 10 years he served as Legislative As-
sistant for my late friend and decorated NYPD
legend, Congressman Mario Biaggi. Mr. Floyd
helped form the National Law Enforcement Of-
ficers Memorial Fund with Biaggi, serving as
it’s CEO from the outset.
Under Mr. Floyd’s leadership the National
Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund has
gone above and beyond in its mission of tell-
ing the story of American law enforcement.
Mr. Floyd oversaw the construction of the Na-
tional Law Enforcement Officers Memorial,
which was dedicated in 1991. This monument
contains the names of over 21,000 fallen law
enforcement officers dating back to the first
documented line of duty death in 1791. Today,
the Memorial Fund maintains the world’s most
comprehensive database of police officers
killed in the line of duty.
During his tenure Mr. Floyd has also over-
seen the enactment of a federal law author-
izing all American flags to be flown at half-staff
on ‘‘Peace Officers Memorial Day’’; enactment
of a federal law authorizing 500,000 com-
memorative silver dollars to be issued by the
U.S. Mint honoring the service and sacrifice of
America’s law enforcement officers and their
families; publication of the book, To Serve and
Protect: A Tribute to American Law Enforce-
ment; 30 annual candlelight vigils honoring
fallen police officers during the Memorial
Fund’s signature event, National Police Week,
which attract a crowd of 30,000; and the open-
ing of the National Law Enforcement Museum
on October 13, 2018.
As the son of an NYPD officer, I commend
Mr. Floyd on his outstanding contributions to
members of the law enforcement community
and thank him on behalf of myself and all
those who are undoubtedly better off because
of his efforts. I wish Mr. Floyd all the best in
his retirement.
f
HONORING LT. COL. HAROLD
‘‘HAL’’ FRITZ ON THE 50TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF HIS MEDAL OF
HONOR
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Lieutenant Colonel Harold ‘‘Hal’’
Fritz on the 50th Anniversary of receiving his
Medal of Honor. Lt. Col. Fritz is one of 74 liv-
ing Medal of Honor recipients.
A resident of Peoria, Illinois for the past 25
years, Lt. Col. Fritz honorably served our na-
tion as a platoon leader in the Vietnam War.
During his time as a Captain, Lt. Col. Fritz
acted with great courage to receive the Medal
of Honor. Captain Fritz was leading his fellow
soldiers on a convoy when they were sud-
denly ambushed, and as a result, surrounded
by the enemy. After receiving heavy fire, Cap-
tain Fritz was wounded, but instead of treating
himself, he thought of those fighting alongside
him. Captain Fritz responded swiftly by return-
ing fire, directing the men with him, and treat-
ing their wounds. These extraordinary actions
taken by Captain Fritz led him and his men
away from danger. Lt. Col. Fritz showed im-
mense bravery, and I commend him on his ac-
tions during the Vietnam War. The Medal of
Honor is a great distinction and it is fitting that
Lt. Col. Fritz actions are recognized in this
way.
It is because of dedicated and selfless lead-
ers such as Lt. Col. Harold ‘‘Hal’’ Fritz that I
am especially proud to serve Illinois’ 17th
Congressional District. Madam Speaker, I
would like to again formally honor Lt. Col. Hal
Fritz on the 50th Anniversary of his receipt of
the Medal of Honor.
f
HONORING FELIPE HUERTA
HON. VICENTE GONZALEZ
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I stand today to honor the life of Felipe
Huerta, Jr. I was deeply saddened to hear that
Felipe passed away on Sunday, December 16
2018.
Felipe served his community as an EMS
medic for three and a half years. He also
served his country as a Marine, having been
deployed twice to Afghanistan. He was award-
ed the Purple Heart for the sacrifices he made
protecting our great nation.
Everything we hold dear as a community,
state, and country is owed to the brave sac-
rifice of service members like Mr. Huerta.
Felipe was a true patriot and hero who will al-
ways be remembered for his dedication to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09JA8.011 E09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E26 January 9, 2019
serving others. I know that Felipe’s legacy will
inspire future generations to honorably serve
our fellow man.
Madam Speaker, last month our country lost
a veteran, and one of its kindest individuals.
His family will be in my thoughts and prayers.
It is a privilege to represent individuals like
Felipe Huerta, Jr. and his family.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF
GENNARO (JERRY) CIANCIOTTA
HON. LEE M. ZELDIN
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Mr. ZELDIN. Madam Speaker, today I rise
to honor the service and sacrifice of Gennaro
(Jerry) Cianciotta who was born on January
13, 1919, grew up in the Bensonhurst section
of Brooklyn and now resides in Ronkonkoma,
New York.
Jerry enlisted in the United States Army Air
Corps during the summer of 1940 and was
sent to Fort Benning in Georgia where he was
assigned to the Fifteenth Air Corps Group—
68th Materiel. Upon completion of Basic Train-
ing, Jerry was transferred to Africa where he
encountered enemy fire and bombings by the
German military. Tasked with the treacherous
job of refueling aircrafts, he achieved the rank
of Corporal and was awarded multiple awards
for his service, including a Good Conduct
medal.
Jerry was then sent to England, where the
enemy aggression continued. ‘‘I was really
lucky,’’ Jerry stated in reference to surviving
the bombs and fire he encountered. After
serving in England for a year, Jerry, who was
fluent in Italian, was sent to Italy, where he re-
mained until just prior to the end of World War
II. Having returned home on leave to get mar-
ried at the conclusion of the war, Jerry re-
turned to Fort Dix, New Jersey, where he was
honorably discharged.
For his service and sacrifice, our Nation will
always be indebted to Buck Sergeant Gennaro
(Jerry) Cianciotta, and his bravery and self-
lessness, then and now, continues to inspire
us all.
f
ADOPTING THE RULES OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 3, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, in 2010,
after a century of trying, under the leadership
of Speaker NANCY PELOSI and our nation’s
44th President, Barack Obama, the Affordable
Care Act became the law of the land.
Before the Affordable Care Act, untold mil-
lions of Americans lived with the reality that
they did not have access to Affordable Care
Act.
Before the passage of the Affordable Care
Act, 17.1 percent of Americans lacked health
insurance; today nearly nine of ten (89.1 per-
cent) are insured, which is the highest rate
since Gallup began tracking insurance cov-
erage in 2008.
Because of the Affordable Healthcare Act:
insurance companies are banned from dis-
criminating against anyone, including 17 mil-
lion children, with a preexisting condition, or
charging higher rates based on gender or
health status; 6.6 million young-adults up to
age 26 can stay on their parents’ health insur-
ance plans; 100 million Americans no longer
have annual or life-time limits on healthcare
coverage; 6.3 million seniors in the ‘‘donut
hole’’ have saved $6.1 billion on their prescrip-
tion drugs; 3.2 million seniors now get free an-
nual wellness visits under Medicare, and
360,000 Small Businesses are using the
Health Care Tax Credit to help them provide
health insurance to their workers; Pregnancy
is no longer a pre-existing condition and
women can no longer be charged a higher
rate just because they are women.
This bill was fiercely debated for over a
year. It passed both houses of Congress and
was signed by President Obama on March 23,
2010.
The bill did many things—it improved ac-
cess to quality care; made care more afford-
able, and improved the quality of the law.
It also advanced several pillars that will un-
doubtedly advance healthcare in America.
For example, the Affordable Care Act:
Lowers the uninsured rate. Gallup recently
estimated that the uninsured rate in Texas in
2015 was 22.3 percent, down from 27.0 per-
cent in 2013. In 2017, the number was at 16
percent.
Prohibits coverage denials and reduced
benefits, protecting as many as 10,694,840
Texans who have some type of pre-existing
health condition, including 1,632,475 children.
Eliminates lifetime and annual limits on in-
surance coverage and establishes annual lim-
its on out-of-pocket spending on essential
health benefits, benefiting 7,536,000 people in
Texas, including 2,771,000 women and
2,094,000 children.
Allows states to expand Medicaid to all non-
eligible adults with incomes under 133 percent
of the federal poverty level. If Texas expands
Medicaid, an additional 1,107,000 uninsured
people would gain coverage.
Establishes a system of state and federal
Health Insurance Exchanges, or Marketplaces,
to make it easier for individuals and small-
business employees to purchase health plans
at affordable prices. During the open enroll-
ment period for 2016 coverage, 1,306,208
people in Texas selected a plan through the
Marketplace, including approximately 626,980
new consumers and 378,800 young adults. In
Texas, 78 percent of Marketplace consumers
could have selected a plan for $100 per month
or less after tax credits for 2016 coverage.
Created a temporary high-risk pool program
to cover uninsured people with pre-existing
conditions prior to 2014 reforms, which helped
10,336 people in Texas.
And, the ACA creates health plan disclosure
requirements and simple, standardized sum-
maries so 12,620,500 people in Texas can
better understand coverage information and
compare benefits.
With respect to the affordability of care, the
ACA made marked improvements in this
sphere, too. For example, the ACA:
Creates a tax credit that, during the most re-
cent open enrollment period, has helped
1,093,573 Marketplace enrollees in Texas who
otherwise might not be able to afford it sign up
for health coverage through the Health Insur-
ance Marketplace.
Requires health insurers to provide con-
sumers with rebates if the amount they spend
on health benefits and quality of care, as op-
posed to advertising and marketing, is too low.
Last year, 96,024 consumers in Texas re-
ceived $14,119,897 in rebates. Since this re-
quirement was put in place in 2011 more than
$2.4 billion in total refunds have been paid to
consumers nationwide through 2014.
Eliminates out-of-pocket costs for preventive
services like immunizations, certain cancer
screenings, contraception, reproductive coun-
seling, obesity screening, and behavioral as-
sessments for children. This coverage is guar-
anteed for 10,278,005 people in Texas, includ-
ing 4,029,215 women.
Eliminates out-of-pocket costs for 2,556,874
Medicare beneficiaries in Texas for preventive
services like cancer screenings, bone-mass
measurements, annual physicals, and smoking
cessation.
Phases out the ‘‘donut hole’’ coverage gap
for 346,750 Medicare prescription drug bene-
ficiaries in Texas, who have saved an average
of $1,057 per beneficiary.
Creates Accountable Care Organizations
consisting of doctors and other health-care
providers who come together to provide co-
ordinated, high-quality care at lower costs to
564,161 Medicare beneficiaries in Texas.
Phases out overpayments through the Medi-
care Advantage system, while requiring Medi-
care Advantage plans to spend at least 85
percent of Medicare revenue on patient care.
Since 2009, Medicare Advantage enrollment
has grown by 704,407 to 1,230,523 in Texas
while premiums have dropped by 10 percent
nationwide.
And, the ACA also improved quality of care,
too. For example, the ACA:
Provides incentives to hospitals in Medicare
to reduce hospital-acquired infections and
avoidable readmissions. Creates a collabo-
rative health-safety learning network, the Part-
nership for Patients, which includes 121 hos-
pitals in Texas, to promote best quality prac-
tices. Avoidable readmissions have fallen
since 2010, saving 87,000 lives and $20 billion
in health care costs, and the rate of one com-
mon deadly hospital acquired infection, cen-
tral-line blood stream infections, fell by 50 per-
cent from 2008 to 2014 nationwide.
Yet, for some reason, Republicans filed
countless legal challenges to this law.
On two separate occasions, the United
States Supreme Court has ruled on the valid-
ity of the Affordable Care Act.
In 2012, it pushed back on a challenge ar-
guing that the ACA is unconstitutional.
In 2015, the Supreme Court pushed back
on a statutory challenge to the ACA.
In both instances, the United States Su-
preme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act
and did so with a Supreme Court Justice ap-
pointed by a Republican President
Following these two endorsements of the
law by the Supreme Court, the law appeared
safe.
Until last month, when a sole federal district
judge In Texas invalidated the Affordable Care
Act based on perverse logic.
The genesis of this entire litigation is has
been problematic.
Texas v. United States as an action filed in
Texas by our state attorney general, who is
currently under criminal indictment.
The matter was then joined by state attor-
neys general, who now pledge to fight the
House’s vigorous appeal of this matter.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09JA8.017 E09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E27
January 9, 2019
That judge’s ruling indicated that when Re-
publicans in Congress, as part of the GOP tax
scam, repealed the individual mandate of the
Affordable Care Act—that part of the law that
required all to have proof of health insurance
or pay a penalty—they in effect invalidated the
whole law, rendering it unconstitutional.
This is absurd. First, it ignores the fact that
the Affordable Care Act has twice been upheld
by the Supreme Court.
Second, despite the fact that the Supreme
Court has twice ruled on the ACA, it has never
endorsed the perverse reasoning underlying
this district court’s ruling.
To be clear, in NFIB v. Sebellius, 567 U.S.
519 (2012), the Supreme Court held that the
penalty for failing to buy health insurance was
a constitutional exercise of the Congress’s tax
and spending power, not that it must be, or
that the provision of the law at issue from the
tax is otherwise unconstitutional in the ab-
sence of it.
It follows that a district court invalidating a
law as unconstitutional based on this provi-
sion, without giving to the Congress the oppor-
tunity to fix the infirmity, smacks of the type of
judicial activism which the American political
right often laments, especially when the Su-
preme Court has twice ruled on the law’s con-
stitutionality.
The ruling was met by cheers and applause
by the President and Congressional Repub-
licans, whose singular policy mission over the
last eight years has been to end the Afford-
able Care Act, and in the process take away
the health care that millions of individuals re-
ceive through it.
Let me first state that the Affordable Care
Act, which House Republicans derisively call
Obamacare, is still the law of the land.
The ruling issued by a federal district court
judge in the Northern District of Texas is
wrong on the facts, the law, and will not stand.
Unfortunately, the present administration oc-
cupying the White House is a sworn opponent
of the Affordable Care Act, and the provisions
it contains, like protecting people with pre-
existing conditions and ensuring that young
adults can stay on their parents’ healthcare
plans until Age 26.
That is why, with respect to Texas v. United
States, Democrats offer H. Res. 6, which
would: permit the Speaker, on behalf of the
House of Representatives, in consultation with
the Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group, to inter-
vene, otherwise appear, or take any other
steps in any other cases involving the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, to protect
the institutional interests of the House and to
defend such act and the amendments made
by such Act to other provisions of law, and
any amendments to such provisions, including
the provisions ensuring affordable health cov-
erage for those with preexisting conditions.
The title directs the Office of General Coun-
sel of the House of Representatives to rep-
resent the House in any such litigation and au-
thorizes the Office of General Counsel to em-
ploy the services of outside counsel, including
pro bono counsel, or other outside experts.
This is not an unprecedented action and in
fact is contemplated by federal authority.
Rule 24 Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
prescribe permissive intervention in a federal
action by a government entity to vindicate a
real interest.
The need to protect the healthcare interests
of tens of millions of Americans—which was
made possible, in part, by an act of this body,
is a real interest as contemplated by Rule 24.
And this approach has bipartisan history.
As recently as 2011, when the Obama Ad-
ministration refused to uphold the validity of
the discriminatory Defense of Marriage Act,
which I did not support, House Republicans in-
voked Title III to hire outside counsel in de-
fense of an ultimately unconstitutional bill—the
first time the Supreme Court had ever ruled on
the law’s validity.
In contrast, in this case, the Affordable Care
Act has withstood many legal challenges by
the Supreme Court and has emerged from
them intact.
The need to intervene in this case is in-
formed by the millions of Americans whose
peace of mind about their healthcare security
is in doubt, including the countless Texans in
my home state.
I urge my colleagues to approve H. Res. 6,
and authorize intervention in this case, to vin-
dicate the healthcare interests of tens of mil-
lions.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
January 10, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JANUARY 15
9:30 a.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of William Pelham Barr, of Vir-
ginia, to be Attorney General, Depart-
ment of Justice.
SH–216
JANUARY 16
9:30 a.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
To continue hearings to examine the
nomination of William Pelham Barr, of
Virginia, to be Attorney General, De-
partment of Justice.
SH–216
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Organizational business meeting to con-
sider committee rules for the 116th
Congress.
SD–106
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to
be Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency.
SD–406
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Energy and Water Devel-
opment
To hold hearings to examine the future
of nuclear power, focusing on advanced
reactors.
SD–138
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JA8.020 E09JAPT1
D26
Wednesday, January 9, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S77–S109
Measures Introduced: Thirteen bills and two reso-
lutions were introduced, as follows: S. 60–72, and S.
Res. 12–13. Page S103
Measures Passed:
Majority Party’s Membership on Certain Com-
mittees: Senate agreed to S. Res. 12, to constitute
the majority party’s membership on certain commit-
tees for the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, or
until their successors are chosen. Page S87
Minority Party’s Membership on Certain Com-
mittees: Senate agreed to S. Res. 13, to constitute
the minority party’s membership on certain commit-
tees for the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, or
until their successors are chosen. Page S87
Measures Considered:
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act—Agreement: Senate continued consider-
ation of the motion to proceed to consideration of S.
1, to make improvements to certain defense and se-
curity assistance provisions and to authorize the ap-
propriation of funds to Israel, to reauthorize the
United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syr-
ian people. Pages S79–87, S87–99
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the motion to
proceed to consideration of the bill at approximately
10 a.m., on Thursday, January 10, 2019; and that
notwithstanding the provisions of Rule XXII, the
vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the motion
to proceed to consideration of the bill occur at 1:45
p.m. Pages S106–07
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland, to be Chairman of
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland, to be a Commis-
sioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commis-
sion for a term expiring April 13, 2024.
Michael Graham, of Kansas, to be a Member of
the National Transportation Safety Board for a term
expiring December 31, 2020.
Jennifer L. Homendy, of Virginia, to be a Member
of the National Transportation Safety Board for a
term expiring December 31, 2024.
Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Geoffrey William Seiji Okamoto, of California, to
be Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury.
1 Army nomination in the rank of general.
Page S109
Messages from the House: Page S100
Measures Referred: Page S100
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S101
Measures Read the First Time: Page S101
Executive Communications: Pages S101–02
Petitions and Memorials: Pages S102–03
Additional Cosponsors: Page S103
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S103–06
Additional Statements: Pages S99–S100
Privileges of the Floor: Page S106
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:44 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Thursday,
January 10, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
pages S106–07.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09JA9.REC D09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D27
January 9, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 67
public bills, H.R. 356–422; 1 private bill, H.R.
423; and 6 resolutions, H.J. Res. 23–24; and H.
Res. 31–34, were introduced. Pages H356–59
Additional Cosponsors: Page H361
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he
appointed Representative Kelly (IL) to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H291
Recess: The House recessed at 11:02 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H298
Oath of Office—Delegate from the Virgin Is-
lands: Representative-elect Stacey E. Plaskett pre-
sented herself in the well of the House and was ad-
ministered the Oath of Office by the Speaker.
Page H299
Committee Elections: The House agreed to H. Res.
31, electing Members to certain standing commit-
tees of the House of Representatives. Page H302
Suspension—Proceedings Resumed: The House
agreed to suspend the rules and pass the following
measure. Consideration began Tuesday, January 8th.
Clarity on Small Business Participation in Cat-
egory Management Act of 2019: H.R. 226, to
amend the Small Business Act to include best in
class designations in the annual report on small busi-
ness goals prepared by the Administrator of the
Small Business Administration, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay
vote of 414 yeas to 11 nays, Roll No. 18.
Pages H311–12
Committee Elections: The House agreed to H. Res.
32, electing Members to certain standing commit-
tees of the House of Representatives. Page H312
Adopting the Rules of the House for the One
Hundred Sixteenth Congress: The House agreed
to Title III of H. Res. 6, adopting the Rules of the
House for the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress, by
a yea-and-nay vote of 235 yeas to 192 nays, Roll
No. 19. Pages H338–46
H. Res. 5, providing for consideration of the reso-
lution (H. Res. 6), the bill (H.R. 21), and the joint
resolution (H.J. Res. 1) was agreed to Thursday, Jan-
uary 3rd.
Financial Services and General Government Ap-
propriations Act, 2019: The House passed H.R.
264, making appropriations for financial services and
general government for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, by a yea-and-nay vote of 240 yeas
to 188 nays, Roll No. 21. Pages H312–38, H346–47
Rejected the Graves (GA) motion to recommit the
bill to the Committee on Appropriations with in-
structions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a yea-and-nay vote
of 200 yeas to 227 nays, Roll No. 20. Page H337
H. Res. 28, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 264), (H.R. 265), (H.R. 266), and
(H.R. 267) was agreed to by a yea-and-nay vote of
231 yeas to 195 nays, Roll No. 17, after the pre-
vious question was ordered by a yea-and-nay vote of
231 yeas to 195 nays, Roll No. 16. Pages H302–11
Quorum Calls—Votes: Six yea-and-nay votes devel-
oped during the proceedings of today and appear on
pages H310, H311, H311–12, H346, H346–47,
and H347. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:29 p.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
JANUARY 10, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to receive a closed briefing
on President Trump’s recent decision to withdraw U.S.
forces from Syria, 9:30 a.m., SVC–217.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09JA9.REC D09JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D28 January 9, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Thursday, January 10
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the motion to proceed to consideration of S. 1,
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle East Act,
and vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the motion
to proceed to consideration of the bill at 1:45 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Thursday, January 10
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: To be announced.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bass, Karen, Calif., E24
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E25
Frankel, Lois, Fla., E25
Garamendi, John, Calif., E23
Gonzalez, Vicente, Tex., E24, E25
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E23
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E25, E26
King, Peter T., N.Y., E25
LaMallfa, Doug, Calif., E24
Rooney, Francis, Fla., E25
Ruiz, Raul, Calif., E23
San Nicolas, Michael F.Q., Guam, E24
Schweikert, David, Ariz., E24
Simpson, Michael K., Idaho, E23
Titus, Dina, Nev., E23
Wenstrup, Brad R., Ohio, E23
Zeldin, Lee M., N.Y., E26
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D09JA9.REC D09JAPT1
