Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H3685
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, MAY 10, 2019 No. 78
Senate
The Senate was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Monday, May 13, 2019, at 3 p.m.
House of Representatives
FRIDAY, MAY 10, 2019
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. DEUTCH).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
May 10, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable THEODORE
E. DEUTCH to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
Dr. Thomas E. Leuther, Family Wor-
ship Center, Columbia, Missouri, of-
fered the following prayer:
Gracious and Heavenly Father, cre-
ator of Heaven and Earth, we come to
You, the author and the finisher of our
faith, knowing that the work You have
started in us as individuals and a na-
tion You are well able to complete.
We pray for all appointed and elected
officials to receive Your wisdom to
lead and guide our Nation. We pray a
hedge of protection around every mem-
ber of the armed services, as well as
this land, territories, and allies.
We pray for a special grace for the
families and loved ones that are sepa-
rated from those who are serving
abroad. We ask that You lead us to be-
come a nation that is known and dem-
onstrates love and tolerance towards
all mankind.
We humbly ask for peace of mind,
health for our bodies, and strength to
carry out Your plans and will. We pray
Your kingdom come, Your will be done,
in Jesus’ name.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, pursu-
ant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a vote
on agreeing to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I object
to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from New York (Mr. BRIN-
DISI) come forward and lead the House
in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. BRINDISI led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING DR. THOMAS E.
LEUTHER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the gentlewoman from Mis-
souri (Mrs. HARTZLER) is recognized for
1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, it is
my distinct privilege and a personal
blessing to recognize my friend and to-
day’s guest chaplain, Dr. Tom Leuther,
and to welcome him to the United
States House of Representatives.
Dr. Leuther is the pastor and founder
of the Family Worship Center, along-
side his wife, Vicki, in Columbia, Mis-
souri. Together, they minister hope to
hundreds of families and provide a
Christ-centered education to children
from kindergarten through eighth
grade at the Family Worship Center
Academy, which they established in
1997.
Pastor Leuther has been a leader
throughout his life, attaining his Eagle
Scout badge in 1973 and his doctorate
of pastoral theology in 2010. He is well
respected in the community and is a
sought-after speaker nationwide.
I have been blessed to get to know
Dr. Leuther and Vicki over the past
several years. They are truly a special
couple. I appreciate their love of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:38 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.000 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3686 May 10, 2019
Lord, love of the families in their com-
munity, and love of our country.
I am thankful that Pastor Leuther
could be with us today, and I know
that the Lord will bless us as a result
of his prayer. May the Lord continue to
bless this caring leader and the entire
congregation at the Family Worship
Center.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to five further
requests for 1-minute speeches on each
side of the aisle.
f
HONORING L. FRANK BAUM
(Mr. BRINDISI asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BRINDISI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor L. Frank Baum, author
and creator of ‘‘The Wonderful Wizard
of Oz,’’ on the 100th anniversary of his
death.
Baum was a native of Chittenango,
New York, which is home to the Inter-
national L. Frank Baum and All
Things Oz Historical Foundation and
Museum.
Each June, the village celebrates
Baum’s classic tale with the longest
running Wizard of Oz festival in the
country. The community, joined by
fans from all over the world, come to-
gether for Oz-themed parades, exhibits,
fireworks, and contests.
But the magic of Oz isn’t only
present this one time of year. The clas-
sic yellow brick road runs through the
village for visitors to enjoy year-round.
Chittenango is proud to be the birth-
place of such an influential author, and
his legacy lives on in central New
York. After all, ‘‘there’s no place like
home.’’
f
PRESIDENT TRUMP STANDS WITH
ISRAEL
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to highlight the recent violence
taking place in Israel and the Gaza
Strip.
It all started when snipers from the
Gaza Strip, unprovoked, fired over the
border upon Israeli soldiers. This was
an unprovoked attack by Hamas, an
internationally recognized terrorist or-
ganization. Israel has every right to de-
fend itself, so they did, as they should.
Following a responsive Israeli air-
strike, hundreds of rockets were
launched from Gaza into Israel. People
died on both sides of this bloody con-
flict. Hamas fired these rockets from
schoolyards, hospitals, and everywhere
else they could use human shields that
they thought would keep them safe
from retaliation.
While some in the media and even in
this Chamber attempt to blame our al-
lies in Israel and downplay the actions
of Hamas, most of us have a firmer grip
on reality. Israel is not the bad guy
here.
This is yet another example of peace
being interrupted by Hamas terrorists.
If any other country in the world were
on the receiving end, no one would dare
question the right to respond accord-
ingly.
I can assure you that I join President
Trump in standing 100 percent with our
friends in Israel. They have every right
to defend themselves from terrorist at-
tacks.
f
NATIONAL SMALL BUSINESS
WEEK
(Mr. KIM asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. KIM. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the incredible contributions
that small business owners across Bur-
lington and Ocean Counties are making
to our communities.
This week is National Small Business
Week, and I have talked with New Jer-
sey small business owners about the
opportunities they see and the chal-
lenges that they face. One owner is
Kristofor Sabey, who runs Surf Liquors
and Market with his wife, Patty, in
Seaside Heights.
In 2012, Kristofor and Patty faced the
unthinkable when Superstorm Sandy
destroyed their store. But as Kristofor
told me, small business owners are
nothing if not determined, and they
have rebuilt, even though they still
face challenges.
It is that determination that drives
more than 860,000 small businesses in
New Jersey, and it is that determina-
tion that makes them the backbone of
our economy and our communities.
I hope my colleagues take a moment
this week to reach out, listen, and
thank our small business owners. When
we do better for our small business
owners, they do better for our commu-
nities. We should strive for that this
week and every week forward.
f
TEXAS COWBOY REUNION
(Mr. ARRINGTON asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the Texas Cow-
boy Reunion, which was recently in-
ducted into the Texas Rodeo Cowboy
Hall of Fame.
Located in the small west Texas
town of Stamford, the Texas Cowboy
Reunion has been preserving the herit-
age of the American cowboy and the
West for almost 90 years.
Madam Speaker, Texans have always
been a resilient people, and what start-
ed as a way for Stamford to lift the
spirit of its citizens from the depths of
the Great Depression has developed
into what is known as the world’s larg-
est amateur rodeo. To this day, it con-
tinues to attract people from all over
to honor the pioneers of the past,
through barrel racing, calf roping, and
other timeless cowboy traditions.
Every year, on the Fourth of July,
my family and I look forward to taking
in the rodeo festivities and just being
back home with friends and my fellow
west Texans.
So congratulations to Matt Mueller
and everyone at the Texas Cowboy Re-
union on this well-deserved recogni-
tion. I will see them all in July.
God bless, and go west Texas.
f
GUN VIOLENCE
(Mr. DEUTCH asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, do
you remember when you graduated
from high school?
Do you remember how big the world
felt?
Do you remember your dreams, what
you wanted to learn, whom you wanted
to meet, and how you wanted to change
the world?
You had those dreams, right?
Kendrick Castillo and Riley Howell
had those dreams, too. But for them,
they will only be dreams because 18-
year-old Kendrick Castillo led a charge
to disarm the gunman who stormed
into his classroom just days before
graduating from the STEM School in
Highlands Ranch, Colorado. Together
with Brendan Bialy and Joshua Jones,
Kendrick saved the hopes and dreams
of his classmates, even as he gave up
his own.
Just 1 week earlier, 21-year-old Riley
Howell was killed as he, too, charged a
gunman inside his classroom at the
University of North Carolina at Char-
lotte. Riley yelled to his classmates,
‘‘Go, go, go,’’ as he body-slammed his
killer to end the shooting that killed
one student and wounded four more.
Kendrick and Riley are heroes for
giving up their dreams.
But we shouldn’t be demanding such
profound sacrifices from American stu-
dents. Instead, we must demand basic
decency from this Congress. This House
has passed historic gun safety legisla-
tion.
Madam Speaker, how many more of
these heroes will we need? How many
more lives lost before the Senate fi-
nally acts to help save lives?
f
FREE MARKET SOLUTION TO
HEALTHCARE
(Mr. GREEN of Tennessee asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, clinicians need to take the
lead on healthcare. Lawyers and bean
counters were used to write the Afford-
able Care Act, and look what it got us.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:34 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.002 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3687
May 10, 2019
As a doctor, former owner of a
healthcare company, and cancer sur-
vivor, I believe it is time we allow cli-
nicians to write and form the
healthcare laws that will help our Na-
tion, and to base it on a free market
solution. That is why I am introducing
a bill to innovate Medicaid, a plan that
will put the patient in charge of their
care with more choice and less cost.
My plan would allow for free market
competition and improve care. But
above all, for Medicaid, it would not
raise taxes and, potentially, could even
lead to lower costs, without raising
costs for Medicaid patients.
We need less government involve-
ment, not more, to fix our broken
healthcare system.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PFAS TASK
FORCE
(Ms. DEAN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. DEAN. Madam Speaker, this
week, the Congressional PFAS Task
Force, including Representatives KIL-
DEE, TONKO, and FITZPATRICK, joined
me in my district to address clean
water and to address PFAS water con-
tamination. I thank them for joining
me. We visited Naval Air Station Joint
Base Willow Grove.
Like hundreds of other military in-
stallations across the country, Willow
Grove used firefighting foam with
PFAS chemicals for decades. Today,
polluted water continues to flow off
this base and into our region’s water
table.
PFAS is associated with serious
health risks, including cancer and im-
paired immune system performance.
The manufacturers, EPA, and DOD
have known about some of the dangers
for a long time. By the early 2000s, it
was clear that PFAS was contami-
nating drinking water, yet PFAS re-
mains in use, and EPA still has not es-
tablished a maximum contaminant
level.
This week, I introduced H.R. 2600, the
Toxic PFAS Control Act. This bill
phases out PFAS by banning the manu-
facturing and processing of these
chemicals and will require EPA to reg-
ulate its disposal.
I thank Chairman TONKO for his com-
mitment to this issue to live up to our
obligation to provide clean drinking
water to our families and communities.
f
b 0915
HONORING DAVID BLOM OF
OHIOHEALTH
(Mr. BALDERSON asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. BALDERSON. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the career of
David Blom, who is retiring from his
service as president and CEO of
OhioHealth this July.
Under David’s watch, OhioHealth has
grown leaps and bounds into central
Ohio’s largest healthcare system. In 17
years at the helm, Dave built
OhioHealth into a top employer and
economic driver in Ohio.
When his tenure began, OhioHealth
employed 14,000 associates and care-
givers. That number has more than
doubled to more than 30,000 OhioHealth
associates and caregivers today.
What is more, OhioHealth was just
named to the Fortune 100 Best Compa-
nies to Work For in 2019 for the 19th
straight year, fostered by Dave’s lead-
ership.
Moreover, when Dave took the reins
in 2002, not a single OhioHealth hos-
pital existed in what is now my con-
gressional district. Today, OhioHealth
Mansfield Hospital, Grady Memorial
Hospital, Dublin Methodist Hospital,
and Westerville Medical Campus all lie
in the 12th Congressional District.
Throughout this rapid development,
Dave has kept an unwavering commit-
ment to keeping care local for patients
across Ohio’s communities.
Keeping care local isn’t merely a slo-
gan for Dave. Rather, it represents a
cultural focus on serving each commu-
nity, creating access to care, and es-
tablishing standard practices and pro-
cedures around medicine and patient
care, all so Ohioans can receive the
healthcare services they need close to
home.
Dave has been gracious in sharing his
leadership with the central Ohio re-
gion. During his tenure as chairman of
the Columbus Chamber of Commerce,
the chamber elevated its mission and
made a profound impact on regional
growth.
Dave also serves on the Columbus
Partnership executive committee, a
nonprofit organization of more than 70
CEOs of Columbus’ leading businesses
and institutions.
Dave has positively impacted so
many lives by making care accessible
for Ohioans—for urban, suburban, and
rural areas alike—and by growing
OhioHealth into a robust employer in
the region I call home. I thank him
very much for his service.
f
KIDS DESERVE LEADERS
WORKING TO END GUN VIOLENCE
(Ms. WEXTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. WEXTON. Madam Speaker, a 12-
year-old from Highlands Ranch, Nate
Holley, explained that he was in his
classroom’s closet with his hand on a
baseball bat because he was going to go
down fighting if he was going to go
down.
In the span of 2 weeks, two students
were killed lunging at shooters in their
classrooms to defend their classmates.
Their names: Kendrick Castillo, 18
years old, just 3 days away from his
high school graduation, and Riley How-
ell, 21 years old, an ROTC cadet at UNC
Charlotte.
These young men are heroes, but
they shouldn’t have to be.
The Senate majority leader won’t
even allow a vote on any gun safety
bills. What is it going to take? How
many shootings, how many more
young lives cut short, until we take ac-
tion?
The STEM School Highlands Ranch
shooting marked the 30th incident of
gun violence on K–12 school grounds
just this year. Our kids deserve leaders
who will do everything in their power
to end gun violence in America.
No more heroes. No more victims.
f
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 2157.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
DEAN). Is there objection to the request
of the gentlewoman from New York?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 357 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 2157.
The Chair appoints the gentlewoman
from Iowa (Ms. FINKENAUER) to preside
over the Committee of the Whole.
b 0919
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 2157)
making supplemental appropriations
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes, with Ms.
FINKENAUER in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall be confined to
the bill and shall not exceed 1 hour
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Appropriations.
The gentlewoman from New York
(Mrs. LOWEY) and the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. GRANGER) each will
control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Last year, we watched hurricanes
pummel Florida, Georgia, and the
Carolinas; wildfires burn large swaths
of the West; and typhoons strike terri-
tories in the Pacific.
In addition to the tragic loss of life,
families lost everything, businesses
were upended, and communities were
ripped apart.
That is why, in January, the House
passed an emergency disaster relief
bill, H.R. 268, to help our fellow Ameri-
cans recover and rebuild. Unfortu-
nately, the bill languished for months
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:34 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.004 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3688 May 10, 2019
in the Senate over assistance for Puer-
to Rico. As it sat there, floods battered
the Midwest and tornadoes swept the
South, resulting in even more destruc-
tion. And it sat there in the Senate.
This legislation attempts to meet the
needs of all of America’s disaster-
stricken communities, whether in
Puerto Rico or the Midwest, California
or the Carolinas, with $17.2 billion in
emergency spending.
In addition to the funding provided in
H.R. 268, the bill makes three critical
additions.
It includes $1.5 billion for the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers for repairs to
Corps projects damaged by flooding and
natural disasters.
It provides $1 billion for Community
Development Block Grant Disaster Re-
covery, with language ensuring it is
spent quickly to help communities re-
build housing, businesses, and public
infrastructure in the most impacted
and distressed areas affected by major
natural disasters.
And it includes $500 million for the
Department of Agriculture’s Emer-
gency Conservation Program, pro-
viding emergency funding and tech-
nical assistance to farmers and ranch-
ers to rehabilitate farmland damaged
by natural disasters.
That is an additional $3 billion to ad-
dress the urgent needs following the
Midwest floods and Southern torna-
does, and an additional $3 billion to re-
build damaged infrastructure, to help
communities recover, and to bring
local economies back to life.
American citizens are relying on our
Federal Government to deliver a robust
disaster relief package. They have
waited long enough. Frankly, they
can’t afford to wait any longer.
Further delays will only leave com-
munities more vulnerable and exposed
to future natural disasters. With the
Atlantic hurricane season beginning in
just 4 weeks and looming summer heat
increasing wildfire risk, we must act
now.
Madam Chair, this legislation is a
critical and long-overdue step to meet-
ing our fellow citizens’ urgent needs. I
urge my colleagues to support it, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise today in opposition to H.R.
2157, the Supplemental Appropriations
Act of 2019.
This bill is similar to the disaster
supplemental that passed the House in
January. We have been waiting for the
Senate to act on their version of the
supplemental for several months.
Unfortunately, taking up a disaster
bill for the second time without ad-
dressing the administration’s concerns
will not increase its chance of becom-
ing law.
While this bill assists many commu-
nities struggling to recover from hurri-
canes, wildfires, flooding, and torna-
does, I have to oppose this measure
today.
I am particularly concerned about re-
pairs that are needed for severely dam-
aged military installations. We must
return these facilities to a condition
that can support our men and women
in uniform. Unfortunately, the needs
are actually greater than what is fund-
ed in this bill.
I am also concerned that the bill fails
to address the humanitarian and secu-
rity crisis at the border. The rule for
this bill does not allow us to consider
an amendment to provide humani-
tarian relief and enhanced security at
the border.
On my recent visits to the border, I
have seen firsthand that the crisis is
getting worse every day. The numbers
are staggering. In April alone, Customs
and Border Protection made 109,000 ap-
prehensions on the southwest border.
More than half of these were family
units.
There have been more apprehensions
in the first 7 months of this fiscal year
than in all of the last fiscal year. Re-
sources are urgently needed to address
the health and safety of our law en-
forcement personnel, as well as fami-
lies with children who are seeking ref-
uge. This bill does nothing to address
this crisis.
We have no choice but to work to-
gether on this issue. We do not have
the luxury of waiting for months to get
resources to law enforcement, social
service providers, and public health of-
ficers. The time to act is now.
I want to thank Chairwoman LOWEY
for her tireless work to address the
needs of our Nation. Just as we worked
together to end the shutdown in Feb-
ruary, we can come together again to
rebuild our communities, protect our
border, and provide humanitarian as-
sistance where it is urgently needed.
Unfortunately, I have to oppose this
bill as it currently stands. I hope we
can continue to work with the Senate
and the White House to come up with a
compromise and get disaster assistance
to the communities that need it most.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield 3
minutes to the distinguished gentle-
woman from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) the
chairwoman of the Energy and Water
Development, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I thank
Chairwoman LOWEY for yielding, and I
thank her and Ranking Member
GRANGER for bringing this bill to the
floor.
Madam Chair, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 2157, the Supplemental Appro-
priations Act for 2019.
Natural disasters across our Nation
have been devastating the lives of mil-
lions of Americans. This map shows
just some of the areas and families
that have been stricken and have wait-
ed and waited and waited months for
Federal support.
The Missouri and Mississippi River
systems are absolutely clogged from
the Canadian border all the way down
to the mouth at New Orleans. The dev-
astation is understood by Americans
who watch the news.
We have waited months and months
and months for Federal support. The
failure of this body to act faster is
shameful, so I welcome this moment
this morning on behalf of all those who
have been harmed.
It is the top responsibility of Con-
gress to provide these hard-hit commu-
nities with strength, hope, and support
to recover.
Imagine looking out your window
and seeing this in your backyard. That
has happened to thousands and thou-
sands of families.
This supplemental will finally pro-
vide aid to these ailing people and com-
munities damaged by hurricanes, ty-
phoons, volcanic activities, tornadoes,
floods, snowstorms, and wildfires.
From our energy and water accounts,
$2 billion is provided to fix damaged
Army Corps projects, with an addi-
tional $1.5 billion in Army Corps fund-
ing for the devastation wreaked by the
flooding in the Midwest.
We are at a 125-year high in the
amount of rainfall coming down be-
tween the Rockies and the Appalach-
ians—a 125-year high in this country.
Many communities have been flooded
like this one, but, also, we have very
high water levels even in the Great
Lakes region, where land is just soaked
and farmers, business owners, and
homeowners are so concerned about
what is going to happen.
Many of these communities are still
underwater, but here we provide an ini-
tial downpayment.
The bill also contains $775 million to
accelerate projects to mitigate future
disaster damages.
b 0930
The bill comprehensively aids dev-
astated communities with nutrition
and Medicaid assistance, crop and live-
stock aid to farmers, and aid to upend-
ed rural populations.
It rebuilds devastated military and
Coast Guard installations so our serv-
icemembers can focus on protecting
our national security. Imagine Camp
Lejeune asking us for more help.
It funds resiliency of our Nation’s
drinking water, wastewater, and elec-
trical grid systems, and provides com-
munities help to rebuild businesses and
local public infrastructure.
Importantly, it includes significant
help to rebuild Puerto Rico, which suf-
fered complete devastation from Hurri-
canes Irma and Maria. This is deeply
personal to my constituents, and to
me. The President’s refusal to recog-
nize Puerto Ricans as the American
citizens they are is unconscionable.
The Senate Republicans back this posi-
tion and find it reprehensible.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield
the gentlewoman from Ohio an addi-
tional 15 seconds.
Ms. KAPTUR. This is the second
time this House has voted on supple-
mental funding this year. It is time the
Senate take up this legislation and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:34 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.007 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3689
May 10, 2019
give some peace to American commu-
nities and our citizens living in devas-
tation. I urge swift passage of this act.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Ne-
braska (Mr. SMITH).
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam
Chair, I rise to reflect on the impor-
tance of the disaster supplemental bill
we are considering today.
In Nebraska, we continue our work to
recover from the storm which hit our
State at the end of February. The
storm brought with it blizzard condi-
tions and large amounts of rain, fol-
lowed rapidly by destructive flooding.
The impact of this storm continues
to be felt across our State, particularly
by our ag producers. In the west, the
extreme blizzard conditions com-
pounded an already hard winter, lead-
ing to severe cattle losses. In the east,
stored grain was actually washed away
or damaged by the floods, and exten-
sive silting of fields has impeded plant-
ing as the season is now underway.
I particularly appreciate both this
bill and the most recent Senate pack-
age including language to ensure our
disaster programs can address losses of
stored grain. While crop insurance cov-
ers producers from planting, including
coverage for prevented planting, up
through harvest, it does not provide
coverage for harvest grain which is
stored and has not yet been sold. Our
producers need this relief.
I realize this bill is not perfect, and
there are a number of issues I hope we
can address moving forward. I would
prefer to be considering legislation
which addresses the concerns of some
Senators and the President and would
be signed into law. This bill does not,
and I hope negotiations will get us
there soon.
I have long advocated for disaster
packages to be paid for; this package is
not, and my amendment to cover the
cost was, unfortunately, not made in
order.
We have traditionally extended a
number of tax relief provisions to fami-
lies and businesses in disaster areas. I
have introduced legislation to do this,
and I hope we can act on this relief
soon as well.
Madam Chair, Nebraskans need re-
lief. Considering this bill moves us
closer to providing them relief and, for
that reason, I do support it.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
31⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. PRICE), the chair-
man of the Transportation Sub-
committee.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I thank our Appropriations
chair for yielding this time, and I rise
in support of this disaster supple-
mental, which will provide $17.2 billion
in long overdue assistance for North
Carolina and for other States and terri-
tories that have suffered from dev-
astating natural disasters.
North Carolina has been hit by two
hurricanes in as many years, with
thousands of people displaced, homes
destroyed, and livelihoods lost.
Meanwhile, typhoons, tornadoes and
wildfires, have wreaked havoc on mil-
lions of Americans in the South, the
Midwest, California, and several terri-
tories, including Puerto Rico.
The bill before us ensures the Federal
Government will remain an active
partner in the recovery effort. It pro-
vides comprehensive resources for:
flexible community development block
grants, highway and bridge repairs,
Army Corps construction along our
coasts and rivers, Department of Agri-
culture crop and livestock relief, re-
pairs to our military installations, and
many other critical recovery activi-
ties.
We all know that these resources are
desperately needed. We all know that
they should have been provided months
ago. The House passed a similar pack-
age back in January that stalled in the
Republican-controlled Senate.
The President has complicated our
efforts, to put it mildly, and he has
complicated them in a particularly un-
fortunate way. He is obsessed with
Puerto Rico. He is determined to pun-
ish the island for offenses, real or
imagined. This has stymied bipartisan
and bicameral efforts to help all Amer-
icans recover, Puerto Ricans included.
And now the President’s latest move
is to insist that this disaster recovery
bill should become a vehicle for his
border priorities.
The administration is even holding
back money that has already been ap-
propriated, including nearly $16 billion
in HUD Community Development
Block Grants, held up by the White
House and OMB for political purposes.
This has slowed the recovery, not
just in Puerto Rico, but in my home
State, North Carolina, in Florida, in
Georgia, Texas, South Carolina, and
the Virgin Islands.
It is time for the President to stop
playing politics with disaster funding,
and it is time for Republicans in the
House and Senate to show some back-
bone, to say to the White House,
‘‘enough already;’’ to join with Demo-
crats to help communities in need.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
this legislation.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Chairman, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Min-
nesota (Ms. MCCOLLUM), the chair of
the Interior Subcommittee.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I rise in
support of this funding package today.
I am pleased that, within the Interior
Subcommittee’s jurisdiction, the bill
provides more than $2 billion for recov-
ery from devastating natural disasters.
This includes $849 million to rebuild
drinking water and waste treatment
systems to a state of resiliency against
future storms, and $50 million for
coastal resiliency projects to reduce
flooding and erosion caused by sea
level rise and climate change.
This bill provides funds to repair
Federal facilities that were destroyed
or damaged, like the Hawaii Volcanoes
Observatory, funds for Historic Preser-
vation grants to repair culturally sig-
nificant sites and properties, and funds
to clean up hazardous and solid waste.
A critical provision in this bill pro-
vides $720 million to fully repay the
U.S. Forest Service for funds it was
forced to borrow in the last fiscal year
to cover the cost of wildland fire sup-
pression.
An additional $134 million will help
the Forest Service to address damage
to national forests and to treat haz-
ardous fuel loads.
This emergency funding in this bill
will help Americans who are struggling
to restore their lives to return to their
homes after devastating fires and hur-
ricanes of last year.
Communities in all of our States and
our territories deserve Federal support
as they recover from natural disasters.
Democrats are proud, under the leader-
ship of Chair LOWEY, to be bringing
this bill to the floor to help those who
have suffered from these natural disas-
ters to begin to rebuild and heal their
lives.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ), the
chairwoman of the Military Construc-
tion, Veterans Affairs, and Related
Agencies Subcommittee.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
Madam Chair, I thank the gentle-
woman for yielding.
I rise in support the underlying legis-
lation.
Madam Chair, H.R. 2157 totals $17.3
billion in emergency disaster appro-
priations to provide relief and recovery
assistance for Americans affected by
recent hurricanes.
The MilCon/VA portion of the bill
provides $860.4 million for Department
of Defense military construction needs
and the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs.
Specifically, the bill includes $115
million for the Marine Corps to begin
planning for construction projects re-
lated to the devastation from Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael on Marine
Corps facilities in North Carolina (New
River, Cherry Point, and Lejeune).
The Marine Corps is planning facility
consolidation efforts resulting from
the hurricanes’ damage, and this fund-
ing represents the first step in that re-
building process.
Madam Chair, the bill also includes
$700 million to begin rebuilding Tyn-
dall Air Force Base in my home State
of Florida. This funding will support
the relocation of the F–22 mission, the
beddown of F–35s, and the planning for
construction of new facilities. This
funding is a vital first step to begin the
rebuild of Tyndall.
Madam Chair, I also want to point
out that this funding for Tyndall in
North Carolina is a downpayment be-
cause Congress is going to need to pro-
vide much more than this to get these
locations back up on their feet.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:34 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.009 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3690 May 10, 2019
Madam Chair, these events happened
6 months ago, and yet the first supple-
mental request to be submitted by the
administration is not to address nat-
ural disasters; it was for border needs.
I am astounded that the administra-
tion continues to ignore these real
emergencies which clearly should have
been addressed months ago, and I am
proud that the Democratic majority is
doing just that today.
I urge all Members of this body to
cast a ‘‘yes’’ vote.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from New
York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ), the chairwoman
of the Small Business Committee.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Chair, I
rise in support of this legislation.
It has now been 2 years since Maria
barreled into Puerto Rico inflicting
historic damage, enormous suffering,
and the loss of 3,000 American lives.
Yet 20 months later, the people of the
island continue struggling to recover
and rebuild.
Compounding this problem, Puerto
Rico has exhausted funding for its nu-
tritional assistance program, and the
Governor has informed us they require
$600 million to meet the food needs of
the Commonwealth’s most vulnerable.
These are seniors, working single
mothers, and those with disabilities.
Let me remind my friends, in the
U.S. Territory Puerto Rico, 65 percent
of our children live in poverty. It is un-
American to deny nutrition assistance
to American citizens living in Puerto
Rico, particularly children. That is im-
moral, and we should be ashamed that,
in the richest country, most powerful
country in the world, we have allowed
for children to suffer this way. That is
simply wrong.
In January, we passed a package to
address this, but the Senate has failed
to act, even though a number of my
Republican Senate colleagues have
promised to deliver Puerto Rico the aid
they so desperately need.
Making matters worse, our President
has repeatedly distorted and misled the
American people about the amount of
money Puerto Rico receives.
We must remember, Madam Chair,
those suffering in Puerto Rico are our
fellow citizens. It is unacceptable that
this President and Senate Republicans
would abandon them.
Importantly, the bill also instructs
FEMA to rebuild in a manner that is
more resilient and capable of with-
standing future extreme weather.
Maria taught us painful lessons, and it
only makes sense that as the island re-
covers we provide it with the tools to
rebuild and resist future hurricanes.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield
the gentlewoman from New York an
additional 2 minutes.
b 0945
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Chair, I
pray passage of this bill which right-
fully assists so many other parts of the
Union, of our Nation, will motivate the
Senate at last to act and the President
to sign this badly needed aid into law.
This is a matter of life and death for so
many in Puerto Rico. I urge a ‘‘yes’’
vote.
The CHAIR. Members are reminded
to refrain from engaging in personal-
ities toward the President.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, to
close, I would like to thank Chair-
woman LOWEY for her leadership. I
look forward to working with her on
legislation that addresses both natural
disasters and the humanitarian crisis
on the border.
We should provide much-needed relief
to communities recovering from hurri-
canes, floods, wildfires, and tornadoes,
but we cannot turn our back on a bor-
der crisis that is growing worse by the
day. Law enforcement agencies pro-
viding humanitarian assistance are
being rushed and pushed to the limit,
and we must act now.
The chairwoman and I have worked
together for many years to find solu-
tions in the national interest. I know
we will be able to do so again.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, it is
time to stop playing games and provide
assistance to all Americans, no matter
whether you lost your home to a wild-
fire in the West, farmland to flooding
in the Midwest, or your entire commu-
nity to a hurricane in Puerto Rico.
Vote ‘‘yes.’’
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 2157, the Supplemental
Appropriations Act, 2019.
This bill is a comprehensive emergency dis-
aster supplemental bill to help meet the urgent
needs of American communities still struggling
to recover from recent hurricanes, typhoons,
wildfires, floods and other natural disasters.
This robust disaster package includes $17.2
billion in long overdue emergency spending for
disaster-stricken communities across our na-
tion and territories.
It builds on the legislation that passed the
House in January—including an additional $3
billion to address the urgent needs of those
living in the Midwest (Nebraska, Missouri,
South Dakota, Iowa and Kansas) and South
(Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia and
the Carolinas) who have been devastated by
flooding and tornadoes in recent months.
This bill also provides some additional dis-
aster assistance to communities continuing to
recover from Hurricane Harvey.
House Democrats are standing up and tak-
ing action to help communities across the
United States and in Puerto Rico, the Northern
Mariana Islands, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Is-
lands and American Samoa recover and heal
from devastating disasters—these commu-
nities should not be held hostage because of
President Trump’s personal contempt for
Puerto Rico.
Senate Republicans should come to their
senses and join Democrats in advancing this
bill and speeding relief to millions of Ameri-
cans.
Included in this legislation is critical funding
for:
Infrastructure and community development
to rebuild our transportation systems and re-
pair housing, businesses and public infrastruc-
ture;
Farmers and rural communities to bolster
the farmer safety net and restore disaster-
damaged lands;
Social services, mental health, education
and dislocated worker initiatives to invest in
the well-being of children, workers and fami-
lies in disaster-struck areas—including pro-
viding critical nutrition and Medicaid assist-
ance for Puerto Rico and U.S. territories;
DOD and Veterans Affairs to repair and re-
build hurricane-damaged bases and facilities;
and
Disaster resiliency to mitigating damage and
costs from future disasters which are becom-
ing more frequent as a result of climate
change.
American families hit by natural disasters
deserve to know that their government will
stand with them throughout the road to recov-
ery.
Democrats are committed to delivering this
assistance to our fellow Americans as they
work to rebuild their lives and their commu-
nities.
Another reason I strongly support this bill is
that H.R. 2157, the ‘‘Supplemental Appropria-
tions Act of 2019,’’ provides much needed and
long overdue relief to Americans in Puerto
Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands still suffering
from the ravages of Hurricanes Maria and
Irma, as well as relief to victims of Hurricane
Michael which struck Alabama, Florida, and
Georgia in October 2018. It also provides re-
lief to the victims of the Midwestern floods that
have caused so much damage in Nebraska,
Missouri, South Dakota, Iowa, and Kansas.
I support this legislation and offered an
amendment that would have provided addi-
tional funding for electricity delivery and nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Harvey, Maria, Irma, and Maria,
and Super Typhoon Yutu including technical
assistance related to electric grids.
As the representative of the Eighteenth
Congressional District of Texas, which was
ground zero for Hurricane Harvey, I regularly
hear from constituents expressing their con-
cern with ineffective and inadequate FEMA
mechanisms put in place to help rectify the
damage caused by natural disasters.
That is why I also offered an amendment to
H.R. 2157 that would prohibits funds in the bill
from being used to prevent the FEMA Admin-
istrator from monitoring the response given to
disaster victims in order to ensure quality con-
trol or becoming aware of complaints regard-
ing the response given to disaster victims and
having in place a mechanism to address such
complaints.
A third Jackson Lee amendment to H.R.
2157 would have provided a minimum of $1
million for wastewater and drinking water treat-
ment works and facilities impacted by Hurri-
canes Harvey, Irma, and Maria.
Hurricane Sandy inflicted more than $70 bil-
lion in damages in 2012, and Matthew cost
the U.S. about $10.3 billion in 2016. With Har-
vey, an estimated 13 million people were af-
fected, nearly 135,000 homes damaged or de-
stroyed in the historic flooding, and up to a
million cars were wrecked.
Hurricane Harvey ranks as the second-most
costly hurricane to hit the U.S. mainland since
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:34 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.010 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3691
May 10, 2019
1900, causing more than $125 billion in dam-
age.
Our residents need more money than for
single-family home repairs, whether it is dis-
aster recovery or general housing dollars and
I will continue to stride on behalf of the neigh-
borhoods and on behalf of hard-working
homeowners who deserve these funds, so
they can continue on with their lives and re-
turn to their homes.
Victims of natural disasters are entitled to
know who to contact when issues related to
FEMA arise and to be assured that their ques-
tions are answered, and complaints ad-
dressed.
Allocating funding for measures such as
Electricity Delivery for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Har-
vey, Maria, Irma, and Super Typhoon Yutu, is
vital to negate the effects of these catastrophic
events from significantly worsening.
Hospitals, first-responders, and a number of
other vital institutions that help our commu-
nities recover from the aftereffects of natural
disasters need access to electricity.
Moreover, with the severity of natural disas-
ters and the ranging of their locations we must
be proactive in our preparation for recovery.
Alternatively, water is the most essential re-
source known to man.
A human can go for more than three weeks
without food—Mahatma Gandhi survived 21
days of complete starvation—but water is a
different story.
At least 60 percent of the adult body is
made of it and every living cell in the body
needs it to keep functioning.
Under extreme conditions an adult can lose
1 to 1.5 liters of sweat per hour and if that lost
water is not replaced, the total volume of body
fluid can fall quickly and, most dangerously,
blood volume may drop.
We do not have the luxury of not preparing
for hurricanes, floods. earthquakes, mudslides,
tornados or other natural disasters.
With these events it is not a question of if,
but when.
For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to
support the rule and the underlying legislation.
The CHAIR. All time for general de-
bate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, an amendment
in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print
116–12, modified by the amendment
printed in part B of House Report 116–
51, shall be considered as adopted, and
the bill, as amended, shall be consid-
ered as an original bill for the purpose
of further amendment under the 5-
minute rule and shall be considered as
read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 2157
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled.
That the following sums are hereby appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, and out of applicable
corporate or other revenues, receipts, and funds,
for the several departments, agencies, corpora-
tions, and other organizational units of Govern-
ment for fiscal year 2019, and for other pur-
poses, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $3,005,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for nec-
essary expenses related to losses of crops (in-
cluding milk, on-farm stored commodities, and
harvested adulterated wine grapes), trees,
bushes, and vines, as a consequence of Hurri-
canes Michael and Florence, other hurricanes,
floods, tornadoes, typhoons, volcanic activity,
snowstorms, and wildfires occurring in calendar
years 2018 and 2019 under such terms and condi-
tions as determined by the Secretary: Provided,
That the Secretary may provide assistance for
such losses in the form of block grants to eligible
States and territories and such assistance may
include compensation to producers, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, for past or future crop
insurance premiums, forest restoration, and
poultry and livestock losses: Provided further,
That of the amounts provided under this head-
ing, tree assistance payments may be made
under section 1501(e) of the Agricultural Act of
2014 (7 U.S.C. 9081(e)) to eligible orchardists or
nursery tree growers (as defined in such section)
of pecan trees with a tree mortality rate that ex-
ceeds 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal mortality)
and is less than 15 percent (adjusted for normal
mortality), to be available until expended, for
losses incurred during the period beginning Jan-
uary 1, 2018, and ending December 31, 2018: Pro-
vided further, That in the case of producers im-
pacted by volcanic activity that resulted in the
loss of crop land, or access to crop land, the Sec-
retary shall consider all measures available, as
appropriate, to bring replacement land into pro-
duction: Provided further, That the total
amount of payments received under this head-
ing and applicable policies of crop insurance
under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C.
1501 et seq.) or the Noninsured Crop Disaster
Assistance Program (NAP) under section 196 of
the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Re-
form Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) shall not exceed
90 percent of the loss as determined by the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That the total amount
of payments received under this heading for
producers who did not obtain a policy or plan of
insurance for an insurable commodity for the
applicable crop year under the Federal Crop In-
surance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop
incurring the losses or did not file the required
paperwork and pay the service fee by the appli-
cable State filing deadline for a noninsurable
commodity for the applicable crop year under
NAP for the crop incurring the losses shall not
exceed 70 percent of the loss as determined by
the Secretary: Provided further, That producers
receiving payments under this heading, as de-
termined by the Secretary, shall be required to
purchase crop insurance where crop insurance
is available for the next two available crop
years, excluding tree insurance policies, and
producers receiving payments under this head-
ing shall be required to purchase coverage under
NAP where crop insurance is not available in
the next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal year
2019, the Secretary shall submit a report to the
Congress specifying the type, amount, and
method of such assistance by State and terri-
tory: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emergency
Forest Restoration Program’’, for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Michael and Florence and wildfires occur-
ring in calendar year 2018, and other natural
disasters, $480,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed and
Flood Prevention Operations’’, for necessary ex-
penses for the Emergency Watershed Protection
Program related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Michael and Florence and wildfires occur-
ring in calendar year 2018, and other natural
disasters, $125,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities programs
as authorized by section 306 and described in
section 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act, for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes Mi-
chael and Florence and wildfires occurring in
calendar year 2018, and other natural disasters,
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That sections 381E–H and 381N of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act
are not applicable to the funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 101. In addition to other amounts made
available by section 309 of division A of the Ad-
ditional Supplemental Appropriations for Dis-
aster Relief Requirements Act, 2017 (Public Law
115–72; 131 Stat. 1229), there is hereby appro-
priated $600,000,000 for the Secretary of Agri-
culture to provide a grant to the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico for disaster nutrition assistance
in response to Presidentially declared major dis-
asters and emergencies: Provided, That the
funds made available to the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico under this section shall remain
available for obligation by the Commonwealth
until September 30, 2020, and shall be in addi-
tion to funds otherwise made available: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is designated
by the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 102. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made available
under section 18 of the Food and Nutrition Act
of 2008, $25,200,000 shall be available for the Sec-
retary to provide a grant to the Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Islands for disaster
nutrition assistance in response to the Presi-
dentially declared major disasters and emer-
gencies: Provided, That funds made available to
the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands under this section shall remain available
for obligation by the Commonwealth until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. For purposes of administering title I
of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bipartisan
Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–123), losses
to agricultural producers resulting from hurri-
canes shall also include losses of peach and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.003 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3692 May 10, 2019
blueberry crops in calendar year 2017 due to ex-
treme cold: Provided, That the amounts pro-
vided by this section are designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That amounts
repurposed under this heading that were pre-
viously designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985 are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 104. (a)(1) Except as provided in para-
graph (2), a person or legal entity is not eligible
to receive a payment under the Market Facilita-
tion Program established pursuant to the Com-
modity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15
U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average adjusted gross
income of such person or legal entity is greater
than $900,000.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a person
or legal entity if at least 75 percent of the ad-
justed gross income of such person or legal enti-
ty is derived from farming, ranching, or forestry
related activities.
(b) A person or legal entity may not receive a
payment under the Market Facilitation Program
described in subsection (a)(1), directly or indi-
rectly, of more than $125,000.
(c) In this section, the term ‘‘average adjusted
gross income’’ has the meaning given the term
defined in section 760.1502 of title 7 Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (as in effect July 18, 2018).
(d) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 105. There is hereby appropriated
$5,000,000, to remain available until September
30, 2020, for the Secretary of Agriculture to con-
duct an independent study, including a survey
of participants, to compare the impact of the ad-
ditional benefits provided by section 309 of Pub-
lic Law 115–72 to the food insecurity, health sta-
tus, and well-being of low-income residents in
Puerto Rico without such additional benefits:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985.
SEC. 106. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made available
under section 18 of the Food and Nutrition Act
of 2008, $5,000,000 shall be available for the Sec-
retary to provide a grant to American Samoa for
disaster nutrition assistance in response to the
Presidentially declared major disasters and
emergencies: Provided, That funds made avail-
able to the territory under this section shall re-
main available for obligation by the territory
until September 30, 2020: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 107. For an additional amount for the
‘‘Emergency Conservation Program’’, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences of
Hurricanes Michael and Florence and of
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, and
other natural disasters, $500,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Pursuant to section 703 of the Public Works
and Economic Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3233),
for an additional amount for ‘‘Economic Devel-
opment Assistance Programs’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to flood mitigation, disaster relief,
long-term recovery, and restoration of infra-
structure in areas that received a major disaster
designation as a result of Hurricanes Florence,
Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic eruptions,
earthquakes, and other natural disasters occur-
ring in calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and
floods occurring in calendar year 2019 under the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.),
$600,000,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985: Provided further, That within
the amount appropriated, up to 2 percent of
funds may be transferred to the ‘‘Salaries and
Expenses’’ account for administration and over-
sight activities: Provided further, That within
the amount appropriated, $1,000,000 shall be
transferred to the ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’
account for carrying out investigations and au-
dits related to the funding provided under this
heading.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes Flor-
ence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu, and of
wildfires, $120,570,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, as follows:
(1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of ob-
serving assets, real property, and equipment;
(2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment
and removal;
(3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and ge-
odesy services;
(4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane inten-
sity forecasting, including through deployment
of unmanned ocean observing platforms and en-
hanced data assimilation; (b) flood prediction,
forecasting, and mitigation capabilities; and (c)
wildfire prediction, detection, and forecasting;
and
(5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as au-
thorized under section 906(c) of division O of
Public Law 114–113:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
shall submit a spending plan to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate for funding provided under
subsection (4) of this heading within 45 days
after the date of enactment of this Act.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procurement,
Acquisition and Construction’’, $25,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2021, for
improvements to operational and research
weather supercomputing infrastructure and sat-
ellite ground services used for hurricane inten-
sity and track prediction; flood prediction, fore-
casting, and mitigation; and wildfire prediction,
detection, and forecasting: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided
further, That the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration shall submit a spending
plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate within
45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
FISHERY DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fishery Dis-
aster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses associ-
ated with the mitigation of fishery disasters,
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That funds shall be used for miti-
gating the effects of commercial fishery failures
and fishery resource disasters declared by the
Secretary of Commerce, including those declared
by the Secretary to be a direct result of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Yutu and Mangkhut: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries and
Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Buildings and
Facilities’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael and Typhoon Yutu, $28,400,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payment to
the Legal Services Corporation’’ to carry out the
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act
by providing for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Mi-
chael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, calendar year 2018 wildfires, vol-
canic eruptions, and earthquakes, and calendar
year 2019 tornadoes and floods, $15,000,000: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal
Services Corporation shall be expended for any
purpose prohibited or limited by, or contrary to
any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503,
504, 505, and 506 of Public Law 105–119, and all
funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal
Services Corporation shall be subject to the same
terms and conditions set forth in such sections,
except that all references in sections 502 and 503
to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead
to 2018 and 2019, respectively, and except that
sections 501 and 503 of Public Law 104–134 (ref-
erenced by Public Law 105–119) shall not apply
to the amount made available under this head-
ing: Provided further, That, for the purposes of
this Act, the Legal Services Corporation shall be
considered an agency of the United States Gov-
ernment.
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation and
Maintenance, Marine Corps’’, $200,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding section 284
of title 10, United States Code, or any other pro-
vision of law, funds made available under this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.008 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3693
May 10, 2019
heading may only be used for the purposes spe-
cifically described under this heading.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation and
Maintenance, Air Force’’, $400,000,000, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences of
Hurricanes Michael and Florence: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding section 284
of title 10, United States Code, or any other pro-
vision of law, funds made available under this
heading may only be used for the purposes spe-
cifically described under this heading.
TITLE IV
CORPS OF ENGINEERS—CIVIL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
INVESTIGATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Investiga-
tions’’ for necessary expenses related to the com-
pletion, or initiation and completion, of flood
and storm damage reduction, including shore
protection, studies which are currently author-
ized or which are authorized after the date of
enactment of this Act, to reduce risk from future
floods and hurricanes, at full Federal expense,
$35,000,000, to remain available until expended,
in States and insular areas that were impacted
by Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and Tropical
Storm Gita: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided
further, That the Assistant Secretary of the
Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly
report directly to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House and the Senate detailing the
allocation and obligation of these funds, includ-
ing new studies selected to be initiated using
funds provided under this heading, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construction’’
for necessary expenses, $740,000,000, to remain
available until expended, to construct flood and
storm damage reduction, including shore protec-
tion, projects which are currently authorized or
which are authorized after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, and flood and storm damage
reduction, including shore protection, projects
which have signed Chief’s Reports as of the date
of enactment of this Act or which are studied
using funds provided under the heading ‘‘Inves-
tigations’’ if the Secretary determines such
projects to be technically feasible, economically
justified, and environmentally acceptable, in
States and insular areas that were impacted by
Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and Tropical
Storm Gita: Provided, That projects receiving
funds provided under the first proviso in ‘‘Corps
of Engineers–Civil—Department of the Army—
Construction’’ in Public Law 115–123 shall not
be eligible for funding provided under this head-
ing: Provided further, That for projects receiv-
ing funding under this heading, the provisions
of section 902 of the Water Resources Develop-
ment Act of 1986 shall not apply to these funds:
Provided further, That the completion of ongo-
ing construction projects receiving funds pro-
vided under this heading shall be at full Federal
expense with respect to such funds: Provided
further, That using funds provided under this
heading, the non-Federal cash contribution for
projects other than ongoing construction
projects shall be financed in accordance with
the provisions of section 103(k) of Public Law
99–662 over a period of 30 years from the date of
completion of the project or separable element:
Provided further, That of this amount,
$45,000,000 shall be used to initiate, at full Fed-
eral expense, construction of authorized Corps
of Engineers ecosystem restoration projects that
have incidental flood risk management benefits
in areas impacted by Hurricanes Irma and
Maria: Provided further, That up to $25,000,000
of the funds made available under this heading
shall be used for continuing authorities projects
to reduce the risk of flooding and storm damage:
Provided further, That any projects using funds
appropriated under this heading shall be initi-
ated only after non-Federal interests have en-
tered into binding agreements with the Sec-
retary requiring, where applicable, the non-Fed-
eral interests to pay 100 percent of the oper-
ation, maintenance, repair, replacement, and re-
habilitation costs of the project and to hold and
save the United States free from damages due to
the construction or operation and maintenance
of the project, except for damages due to the
fault or negligence of the United States or its
contractors: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided
further, That the Assistant Secretary of the
Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly
report directly to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and the
Senate detailing the allocation and obligation of
these funds, beginning not later than 60 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND TRIBUTARIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Mississippi
River and Tributaries’’ for necessary expenses to
address emergency situations at Corps of Engi-
neers projects and rehabilitate and repair dam-
ages to Corps of Engineers projects, caused by
natural disasters, including disasters in 2019,
$575,000,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985: Provided further, That the As-
sistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report directly to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate detailing the al-
location and obligation of these funds, begin-
ning not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation and
Maintenance’’ for necessary expenses to dredge
Federal navigation projects in response to, and
repair damages to Corps of Engineers Federal
projects caused by, natural disasters, including
disasters in 2019, $908,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which such sums as are
necessary to cover the Federal share of eligible
operation and maintenance costs for coastal
harbors and channels, and for inland harbors
shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided
further, That the Assistant Secretary of the
Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly
report directly to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and the
Senate detailing the allocation and obligation of
these funds, beginning not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act.
FLOOD CONTROL AND COASTAL EMERGENCIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Flood Control
and Coastal Emergencies’’, as authorized by sec-
tion 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 (33 U.S.C.
701n), for necessary expenses to prepare for
flood, hurricane and other natural disasters and
support emergency operations, repairs, and
other activities in response to such disasters, in-
cluding disasters in 2019, as authorized by law,
$510,000,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985: Provided further, That the As-
sistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works
shall provide a monthly report to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Central Utah
Project Completion Account’’, $350,000, to be de-
posited into the Utah Reclamation Mitigation
and Conservation Account for use by the Utah
Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Com-
mission, to remain available until expended, for
expenses necessary in carrying out fire remedi-
ation activities related to wildfires in 2018: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Water and Re-
lated Resources’’, $17,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for fire remediation and
suppression emergency assistance related to
wildfires in 2017 and 2018: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
ENERGY PROGRAMS
ELECTRICITY DELIVERY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Electricity De-
livery’’, $15,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and
Maria, and Super Typhoon Yutu, including
technical assistance related to electric grids:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985: Provided further, That the As-
sistant Secretary of Electricity Delivery shall
provide a monthly report to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate detailing the allocation and obli-
gation of these funds, beginning not later than
60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
TITLE V
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael, Flor-
ence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and
Typhoon Mangkhut, $48,977,000; of which
$46,977,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and of which $2,000,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2023, for en-
vironmental compliance and restoration: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procurement,
Construction, and Improvements’’ for necessary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.008 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3694 May 10, 2019
expenses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Michael, Florence, and Lane, Tropical
Storm Gordon, and Typhoon Mangkhut,
$476,755,000, to remain available until September
30, 2023: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 501. (a) IN GENERAL.—The Federal share
of assistance provided for DR–4336–PR, DR–
4339–PR, DR–4340–USVI and DR–4335–USVI
under sections 403, 406, and 407 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170b and 5173) shall be 100
percent of the eligible costs under such sections.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—The Federal share pro-
vided by subsection (a) shall apply to disaster
assistance applied for before, on, or after the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 502. The Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency shall provide
assistance, pursuant to section 428 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), for critical
services as defined in section 406 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act for the duration of the recovery for
incidents DR–4404, DR–4396, and DR–4398 to—
(1) replace or restore the function of a facility
or system to industry standards without regard
to the pre-disaster condition of the facility or
system; and
(2) replace or restore components of the facil-
ity or system not damaged by the disaster where
necessary to fully effectuate the replacement or
restoration of disaster-damaged components to
restore the function of the facility or system to
industry standards.
SEC. 503. Section 20601 of Public Law 115–123
(132 Stat. 85) is amended by striking ‘‘may’’ and
inserting ‘‘shall’’. Provided, That the amounts
provided by this section are designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That amounts
repurposed under this heading that were pre-
viously designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985 are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 504. (a) IN GENERAL.—The President
shall make a contribution under section 406 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172) for each
eligible rural medical facility that was damaged
or destroyed by a major disaster during calendar
year 2015, regardless of whether the operations
of such medical facility were subsequently car-
ried out in a temporary replacement facility.
Such contribution shall be sufficient to provide
for a full permanent replacement of each such
medical facility to the resiliency standards de-
scribed in subsection (b).
(b) RESILIENCY STANDARDS.—A permanent re-
placement facility provided for under this sec-
tion shall meet—
(1) the definition of resilient developed pursu-
ant to section 406(e) of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5172(e)); and
(2) any relevant consensus-based codes, speci-
fications, and standards.
(c) TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT FACILITY.—In
any case in which the President, acting through
the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
has provided funding to lease or purchase a
temporary replacement facility to house the op-
erations of an eligible rural medical facility for
which a permanent replacement facility is re-
quired under this section, the President shall
continue such funding until a permanent re-
placement facility is operational, including for
any period of time for which funding has not
otherwise been provided.
(d) HOSPITAL SUCCESSOR ENTITY.—A transfer
in ownership of an eligible rural medical facility
or of a permanent replacement facility, or the
execution of a transaction by the owner of an
eligible rural medical facility resulting in dif-
ferent ownership of a permanent replacement
facility, shall not affect the requirement in sub-
section (a) to provide for a full replacement of
the facility for which funds are provided under
this section, provided that such funds are pro-
vided to an entity otherwise eligible for assist-
ance under section 406 of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5172).
(e) DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE RURAL MEDICAL
FACILITY.—In this section, the term ‘‘eligible
rural medical facility’’ means a private non-
profit hospital facility—
(1) located in a county with a population
below 40,000, as determined by the most recent
decennial census;
(2) that sustained damage during calendar
year 2015 that was eligible for financial assist-
ance under section 406 of the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5172); and
(3) that was closed following damage sus-
tained during a major disaster and remains
closed as of the date of enactment of this Act.
(f) The amounts provided by this section are
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 505. (a) IN GENERAL.—The President
shall make a contribution under section 406 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5172) to the ap-
plicable State or local government for each eligi-
ble hydroelectric facility that was damaged or
destroyed by a major disaster during calendar
year 2015 to carry out the improvements for
which such contribution was provided under
this section.
(b) CONTRIBUTION.—Each contribution pro-
vided for improvements to an eligible hydro-
electric facility under subsection (a) shall be
sufficient to—
(1) rebuild canal embankments to meet all ap-
plicable guidelines in the Engineering Guide-
lines for the Evaluation of Hydropower Projects
prepared by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission;
(2) restore all other water-control and retain-
ing structures to meet all applicable such Engi-
neering Guidelines; and
(3) provide for either—
(A) the restoration of the eligible hydroelectric
facility to full operation of its function as a pri-
mary water source and hydroelectric power sup-
ply; or
(B) the establishment of an alternative pri-
mary water source and the restoration of the
full operation of the hydroelectric power supply
function of the eligible hydroelectric facility
pursuant to the requirements of subsection (c).
(c) ALTERNATIVE CONTRIBUTION.—A contribu-
tion may cover the establishment of an alter-
native primary water source under subsection
(b)(3)(B) only if—
(1) the water source could provide redundancy
to the water supply provided by an eligible hy-
droelectric facility;
(2) the water source is approved by any appli-
cable regulatory agencies; and
(3) the cost of the establishment of such water
source and the restoration of the full operation
of the hydroelectric power supply function of
the eligible hydroelectric facility is less than the
cost of restoring the eligible hydroelectric facil-
ity to full operation as described under sub-
section (b)(3)(A).
(d) RESILIENCY STANDARDS.—An improvement
carried out under this section shall meet the def-
inition of resilient developed pursuant to section
406(e) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5172(e)).
(e) DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE HYDROELECTRIC
FACILITY.—In this section, the term ‘‘eligible hy-
droelectric facility’’ means a hydroelectric facil-
ity that—
(1) is part of a system that provides the pri-
mary water source for more than 200,000 people;
(2) sustained damage eligible for financial as-
sistance under section 406 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5172);
(3) is licensed by the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission under part I of the Federal
Power Act (16 U.S.C. 792 et seq.); and
(4) has been assigned a significant hazard po-
tential classification in accordance with chapter
1 of the Engineering Guidelines for the Evalua-
tion of Hydropower Projects prepared by the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
(f) The amounts provided by this section are
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 506. In implementing section 502 of this
Act or section 20601 of Public Law 115–123, the
Administrator shall include the costs associated
with addressing pre-disaster condition,
undamaged components, codes and standards,
and industry standards in the cost of repair
when calculating the percentage in section
206.226(f) of title 44, Code of Federal Regula-
tions: Provided, That the amounts provided by
this section are designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed under
this heading that were previously designated by
the Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985 are designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construction’’
for necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane, and
Michael, and flooding associated with major de-
clared disaster DR–4365, and calendar year 2018
earthquakes, $82,400,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this amount
$50,000,000 shall be used to restore and rebuild
national wildlife refuges and increase the resil-
iency and capacity of coastal habitat and infra-
structure to withstand storms and reduce the
amount of damage caused by such storms: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is designated
by the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Historic
Preservation Fund’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Flor-
ence and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu,
$50,000,000, to remain available until September
30, 2022, including costs to States and territories
necessary to complete compliance activities re-
quired by section 306108 of title 54, United States
Code (formerly section 106 of the National His-
toric Preservation Act) and costs needed to ad-
minister the program: Provided, That grants
shall only be available for areas that have re-
ceived a major disaster declaration pursuant to
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):
Provided further, That individual grants shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.008 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3695
May 10, 2019
not be subject to a non-Federal matching re-
quirement: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construction’’
for necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Michael,
Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut, and calendar
year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes, and volcanic
eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Surveys, In-
vestigations, and Research’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, and calendar year
2018 wildfires, earthquake damage associated
with emergency declaration EM–3410, and in
those areas impacted by a major disaster de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) with respect to calendar year
2018 wildfires or volcanic eruptions, $98,500,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That of this amount, $72,310,000 is for costs re-
lated to the repair and replacement of equip-
ment and facilities damaged by disasters in 2018:
Provided further, That, not later than 90 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Sur-
vey shall submit a report to the Committees on
Appropriations that describes the potential op-
tions to replace the facility damaged by the 2018
volcano disaster along with cost estimates and a
description of how the Survey will provide direct
access for monitoring volcanic activity and the
potential threat to at-risk communities: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is designated
by the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Technical As-
sistance’’ for financial management expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Typhoon Yutu,
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries and
Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of major disasters declared pursu-
ant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Science and
Technology’’ for necessary expenses related to
improving preparedness of the water sector,
$600,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Leaking Un-
derground Storage Tank Fund’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, calendar year 2018
earthquakes, and Typhoon Yutu, $1,500,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For additional amounts for ‘‘State and Tribal
Assistance Grants’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Flor-
ence and Michael and calendar year 2018 earth-
quakes for the hazardous waste financial assist-
ance grants program, $1,500,000, to remain
available until expended; for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Typhoon Yutu
for the hazardous waste financial assistance
grants program and for other solid waste man-
agement activities, $56,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, provided that none of these
funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of the
Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants under
section 106 of the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act, $5,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to address impacts of Hurricane Flor-
ence, Hurricane Michael, Typhoon Yutu, and
calendar year 2018 wildfires, notwithstanding
subsections (b), (e), and (f), of such section: Pro-
vided, That such amounts are designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’, $349,400,000 to re-
main available until expended, of which
$53,300,000 shall be for capitalization grants for
the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under
title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, and of which $296,100,000 shall be for cap-
italization grants under section 1452 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act: Provided, That notwith-
standing section 604(a) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act and section 1452(a)(1)(D)
of the Safe Drinking Water Act, funds appro-
priated herein shall be provided to States or Ter-
ritories in EPA Regions 4, 9, and 10 in amounts
determined by the Administrator for wastewater
treatment works and drinking water facilities
impacted by Hurricanes Florence and Michael,
Typhoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires
and earthquakes: Provided further, That not-
withstanding the requirements of section 603(i)
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water Act,
for the funds appropriated herein, each State
shall use not less than 20 percent but not more
than 30 percent of the amount of its capitaliza-
tion grants to provide additional subsidization
to eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness of
principal, negative interest loans or grants or
any combination of these: Provided further,
That the Administrator shall retain $10,400,000
of the funds appropriated herein for grants for
drinking water facilities and waste water treat-
ment plants impacted by Typhoon Yutu: Pro-
vided further, That the funds appropriated
herein shall be used for eligible projects whose
purpose is to reduce flood or fire damage risk
and vulnerability or to enhance resiliency to
rapid hydrologic change or natural disaster at
treatment works as defined by section 212 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act or any eli-
gible facilities under section 1452 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act, and for other eligible tasks
at such treatment works or facilities necessary
to further such purposes: Provided further, That
the Administrator of the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency may retain up to $1,000,000 of the
funds appropriated herein for management and
oversight: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
In addition, for an additional amount for
‘‘State and Tribal Assistance Grants’’,
$500,000,000, to remain available until expended,
of which $261,000,000 shall be for capitalization
grants for the Clean Water State Revolving
Funds under title VI of the Federal Water Pol-
lution Control Act, and of which $239,000,000
shall be for capitalization grants under section
1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act and section
1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking Water Act,
funds appropriated herein shall be provided to
States or Territories in EPA Regions 2, 4, and 6
in amounts determined by the Administrator for
wastewater and drinking water treatment works
and facilities impacted by Hurricanes Harvey,
Irma, and Maria: Provided further, That, for
Region 2, such funds allocated from funds ap-
propriated herein shall not be subject to the
matching or cost share requirements of sections
602(b)(2), 602(b)(3) of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act nor the matching requirements
of section 1452(e) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act: Provided further, That, for Region 2, not-
withstanding the requirements of section 603(i)
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water Act,
each State and Territory shall use the full
amount of its capitalization grants allocated
from funds appropriated herein to provide addi-
tional subsidization to eligible recipients in the
form of forgiveness of principal, negative inter-
est loans or grants or any combination of these:
Provided further, That, for Regions 4 and 6,
notwithstanding the requirements of section
603(i) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act and section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, for the funds allocated, each State
shall use not less than 20 percent but not more
than 30 percent amount of its capitalization
grants allocated from funds appropriated herein
to provide additional subsidization to eligible re-
cipients in the form of forgiveness of principal,
negative interest loans or grants or any com-
bination of these: Provided further, That the
Administrator shall retain $74,600,000 of the
funds appropriated herein for grants to any
State or territory that has not established a
water pollution control revolving fund pursuant
to title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act or section 1452 of the Safe Drinking
Water Act for drinking water facilities and
waste water treatment plants impacted by Hur-
ricanes Irma and Maria: Provided further, That
the funds appropriated herein shall only be
used for eligible projects whose purpose is to re-
duce flood damage risk and vulnerability or to
enhance resiliency to rapid hydrologic change
or a natural disaster at treatment works as de-
fined by section 212 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act or any eligible facilities under
section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act,
and for other eligible tasks at such treatment
works or facilities necessary to further such
purposes: Provided further, That, for Region 2,
notwithstanding section 603(d)(2) of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act and section
1452(f)(2) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, funds
allocated from funds appropriated herein may
be used to make loans or to buy, refinance or re-
structure the debt obligations of eligible recipi-
ents only where such debt was incurred on or
after September 20, 2017: Provided further, That
the Administrator of the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency may retain up to $1,000,000 of the
funds appropriated herein for management and
oversight: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.008 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3696 May 10, 2019
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Forest and
Rangeland Research’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Flor-
ence and Michael, and the calendar year 2018
wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended for the forest inventory and analysis
program: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and Pri-
vate Forestry’’ for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, and the calendar year 2018 wildfires,
$12,000,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For an additional amount for ‘‘National For-
est System’’ for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, and the calendar year 2018 wildfires,
$84,960,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That of this amount $21,000,000 shall
be used for hazardous fuels management activi-
ties: Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Capital Im-
provement and Maintenance’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, and the calendar
year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Wildland Fire
Management’’, $720,271,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2022, for urgent wildland
fire suppression operations: Provided, That such
funds shall be solely available to be transferred
to and merged with other appropriations ac-
counts from which funds were previously trans-
ferred for wildland fire suppression in fiscal
year 2018 to fully repay those amounts: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is designated
by the Congress as an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
SCIENCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘National Insti-
tute of Environmental Health Sciences’’ for nec-
essary expenses in carrying out activities set
forth in section 311(a) of the Comprehensive En-
vironmental Response, Compensation, and Li-
ability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9660(a)) and sec-
tion 126(g) of the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act of 1986 related to the con-
sequences of major disasters declared pursuant
to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 601. Not later than 45 days after the date
of enactment of this Act, the agencies receiving
funds appropriated by this title shall provide a
detailed operating plan of anticipated uses of
funds made available in this title by State and
Territory, and by program, project, and activity,
to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided,
That no such funds shall be obligated before the
operating plans are provided to the Committees:
Provided further, That such plans shall be up-
dated, including obligations to date, and sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
every 60 days until all such funds are expended.
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Training and
Employment Services’’, $50,000,000, for the dis-
located workers assistance national reserve for
necessary expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Michael,
Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu,
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, and
tornadoes and floods occurring in calendar year
2019, to remain available through September 30,
2020: Provided, That the Secretary of Labor may
transfer up to $1,000,000 of such funds to any
other Department of Labor account for recon-
struction and recovery needs, including worker
protection activities: Provided further, That
these sums may be used to replace grant funds
previously obligated to the impacted areas: Pro-
vided further, That of the amount provided, up
to $500,000, to remain available until expended,
shall be transferred to ‘‘Office of Inspector Gen-
eral’’ for oversight of activities responding to
such consequences: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
HEALTH SURVEILLANCE AND PROGRAM SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Health Sur-
veillance and Program Support’’, $30,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2019, for
grants, contracts and cooperative agreements
for behavioral health treatment, crisis coun-
seling, and other related helplines, and for other
similar programs to provide support to individ-
uals impacted by Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, wildfires occurring in 2018, and tornadoes
and floods occurring in calendar year 2019 in
those areas for which a major disaster or emer-
gency has been declared under section 401 or 501
of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and
5191): Provided, That obligations incurred for
the purposes provided herein prior to the date of
enactment of this Act may be charged to funds
appropriated under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
SOCIAL SERVICES BLOCK GRANT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Social Services
Block Grant’’, $250,000,000, which shall remain
available through September 30, 2020, for nec-
essary expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Michael,
Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu,
wildfires occurring in 2018, and tornadoes and
floods occurring in calendar year 2019 in those
areas for which a major disaster or emergency
has been declared under section 401 or 501 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191):
Provided, That notwithstanding section 2002 of
the Social Security Act, the distribution of such
amount shall be limited to States directly af-
fected by these events: Provided further, That
the time limits in section 2002(c) of the Social Se-
curity Act shall not apply to funds appropriated
in this paragraph that are used for renovation,
repair or construction: Provided further, That
funds appropriated in this paragraph are in ad-
dition to the entitlement grants authorized by
section 2002(a)(1) of the Social Security Act and
shall not be available for such entitlement
grants: Provided further, That in addition to
other uses permitted by title XX of the Social
Security Act, funds appropriated in this para-
graph may be used for health services (including
mental health services), and for costs of ren-
ovating, repairing, and construction of health
care facilities (including mental health facili-
ties), child care centers, and other social serv-
ices facilities: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, up to $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be transferred to
‘‘Office of the Secretary—Office of Inspector
General’’ for oversight of activities responding
to such hurricanes, typhoons, wildfires, torna-
does, and floods: Provided further, That funds
appropriated in this paragraph shall not be
available for costs that are reimbursed by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, under
a contract for insurance, or by self-insurance:
Provided further, That obligations incurred for
the purposes provided herein prior to the date of
enactment of this Act may be charged to funds
appropriated under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That up to $3,000,000 may be used to sup-
plement amounts available for the necessary ex-
penses of administering subtitle A of title XX of
the Social Security Act: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children and
Families Services Programs’’, $60,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021, for
Head Start programs, including making pay-
ments under the Head Start Act, for necessary
expenses directly related to the consequences of
Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, wildfires oc-
curring in 2018, and tornadoes and floods occur-
ring in calendar year 2019 in those areas for
which a major disaster or emergency has been
declared under section 401 or 501 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided,
That none of the funds appropriated in this
paragraph shall be included in the calculation
of the ‘‘base grant’’ in subsequent fiscal years,
as such term is defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A),
641A(h)(1)(B), or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start
Act: Provided further, That funds appropriated
in this paragraph are not subject to the alloca-
tion requirements of section 640(a) of the Head
Start Act: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated in this paragraph shall not be available
for costs that are reimbursed by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, under a con-
tract for insurance, or by self-insurance: Pro-
vided further, That up to $2,000,000 shall be
available for Federal administrative expenses:
Provided further, That obligations incurred for
the purposes provided herein prior to the date of
enactment of this Act may be charged to funds
appropriated under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.008 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3697
May 10, 2019
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
HURRICANE EDUCATION RECOVERY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Hurricane
Education Recovery’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Flor-
ence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super
Typhoon Yutu, the wildfires, earthquakes, and
volcanic eruptions occurring in calendar year
2018, and tornadoes and floods occurring in cal-
endar year 2019 in those areas for which a major
disaster or emergency has been declared under
section 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5170 and 5191) (referred to under this
heading as a ‘‘covered disaster or emergency’’),
$165,000,000, to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2019: Provided, That such assistance
may be provided through any of the programs
authorized under this heading in title VIII of
subdivision 1 of division B of Public Law 115–
123 (as amended by Public Law 115–141), as de-
termined by the Secretary of Education, and
subject to the terms and conditions that applied
to those programs, except that references to
dates and school years in Public Law 115–123
shall be deemed to be the corresponding dates
and school years for the covered disaster or
emergency: Provided further, That the Secretary
of Education may determine the amounts to be
used for each such program and shall notify the
Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate of these
amounts not later than 7 days prior to obliga-
tion: Provided further, That $2,000,000 of the
funds made available under this heading, to re-
main available until expended, shall be trans-
ferred to the Office of the Inspector General of
the Department of Education for oversight of
activities supported with funds appropriated
under this heading, and up to $1,000,000 of the
funds made available under this heading shall
be for program administration: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 701. (a) Section 1108(g)(5) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1308(g)(5)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and
(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘(E), and (F)’’;
(2) in subparagraph (C), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by striking ‘‘and (E)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘and (F)’’;
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as sub-
paragraph (F);
(4) by inserting after subparagraph (D), the
following:
‘‘(E) Subject to subparagraph (F), for the pe-
riod beginning January 1, 2019, and ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, the amount of the increase oth-
erwise provided under subparagraph (A) for the
Northern Mariana Islands shall be further in-
creased by $36,000,000.’’; and
(5) in subparagraph (F) (as redesignated by
paragraph (3) of this section)—
(A) by striking ‘‘title XIX, during’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘title XIX—
‘‘(i) during’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘and (D)’’ and inserting ‘‘,
(D), and (E)’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘and the Virgin Islands’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘, the Virgin Is-
lands, and the Northern Mariana Islands’’;
(D) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘; and’’; and
(E) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) for the period beginning January 1, 2019,
and ending September 30, 2019, with respect to
payments to Guam and American Samoa from
the additional funds provided under subpara-
graph (A), the Secretary shall increase the Fed-
eral medical assistance percentage or other rate
that would otherwise apply to such payments to
100 percent.’’.
(b) The amounts provided by the amendments
made by subsection (a) are designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
SEC. 702. Not later than 30 days after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Secretaries of
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation shall provide a detailed spend plan of an-
ticipated uses of funds made available in this
title, including estimated personnel and admin-
istrative costs, to the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided, That such plans shall be up-
dated and submitted to the Committees on Ap-
propriations every 60 days until all funds are
expended or expire.
SEC. 703. The second proviso under the head-
ing ‘‘Hurricane Education Recovery’’ under the
heading ‘‘Department of Education’’ under title
VIII of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bipar-
tisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–123;
132 Stat. 95) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (I), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(K) assistance provided to an eligible entity
under this heading, including assistance pro-
vided to an eligible entity before the date of en-
actment of the Supplemental Appropriations
Act, 2019, may be used by the eligible entity for
a purpose described in section 406 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster and Relief Emergency Act
(42 U.S.C. 5172), notwithstanding section
102(e)(3) of title IV of division B of Public Law
109–148 (119 Stat. 2794), if the eligible entity will
receive funds for that purpose under such sec-
tion 406; and
‘‘(L) any duplicative Federal assistance pro-
vided under this heading to an eligible entity
may be retained by the entity and used for other
activities to restart school operations in accord-
ance with this paragraph;’’;
(2) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘and’’ after
the semicolon;
(3) by redesignating paragraph (10) as para-
graph (11); and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (9) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(10) amounts available under paragraph (4)
that exceed the amount required to meet the
need for such funds as determined by the Sec-
retary as of December 31, 2018, shall be available
to carry out paragraph (3); and’’:
Provided, That amounts repurposed pursuant to
this section that were previously designated by
the Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act are designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
TITLE VIII
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries and
Expenses’’, $10,000,000, to remain available until
expended, for audits and investigations related
to Hurricanes Florence, Lane, and Michael, Ty-
phoons Yutu and Mangkhut, the calendar year
2018 wildfires, earthquakes, and volcano erup-
tions, and other disasters declared pursuant to
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):
Provided, That, not later than 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Government
Accountability Office shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate a spend plan speci-
fying funding estimates for audits and inves-
tigations of any such declared disasters occur-
ring in 2018 and identifying funding estimates
or carryover balances, if any, that may be avail-
able for audits and investigations of any other
such declared disasters: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IX
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE
CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military Con-
struction, Navy and Marine Corps’’,
$115,000,000, to remain available until September
30, 2023, for planning and design related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael on Navy and Marine Corps installations:
Provided, That none of the funds shall be avail-
able for obligation until the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate receive a master plan for the in-
stallations and a form 1391 for each specific
project: Provided further, That, not later than
60 days after enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of the Navy, or his designee, shall submit
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a de-
tailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided
further, That notwithstanding section 2808 of
title 10, United States Code, or any other provi-
sion of law, funds made available under this
heading may only be used for the purposes spe-
cifically described under this heading.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military Con-
struction, Air Force’’, $700,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023, for planning
and design, and construction expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricane Michael: Pro-
vided, That none of the funds shall be available
for obligation until the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives and
the Senate receive a basing plan and future mis-
sion requirements for installations significantly
damaged by Hurricane Michael: Provided fur-
ther, That, not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force,
or his designee, shall submit to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan
for funds provided under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That notwith-
standing section 2808 of title 10, United States
Code, or any other provision of law, funds made
available under this heading may only be used
for the purposes specifically described under
this heading.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military Con-
struction, Army National Guard’’, $42,400,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2023, for
necessary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael: Provided,
That none of the funds shall be available for ob-
ligation until the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive form 1391 for each specific request: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 60 days after
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Army
National Guard, or his designee, shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a detailed ex-
penditure plan for funds provided under this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.008 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3698 May 10, 2019
heading: Provided further, That such funds
may be obligated or expended for planning and
design and military construction projects not
otherwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding section
2808 of title 10, United States Code, or any other
provision of law, funds made available under
this heading may only be used for the purposes
specifically described under this heading.
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAL FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Medical Fa-
cilities’’, $3,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Flor-
ence and Michael and Typhoons Mangkhut and
Yutu: Provided, That the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs, upon determination that such action is
necessary to address needs as a result of the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael and Typhoons Mangkhut and Yutu, may
transfer such funds to any discretionary ac-
count of the Department of Veterans Affairs:
Provided further, That before a transfer may
take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
shall submit notice thereof to the Committee on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided further, That none of
these funds shall be available for obligation
until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs submits
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a de-
tailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RELIEF
PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Transportation Emergency Relief Program’’ as
authorized under section 5324 of title 49, United
States Code, $10,542,000 to remain available
until expended, for transit systems affected by
major declared disasters occurring in calendar
year 2018: Provided, That not more than three-
quarters of 1 percent of the funds for public
transportation emergency relief shall be avail-
able for administrative expenses and ongoing
program management oversight as authorized
under sections 5334 and 5338(f)(2) of such title
and shall be in addition to any other appropria-
tions for such purpose: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
Of the amounts made available for ‘‘Federal
Aviation Administration—Operations’’ in divi-
sion B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018
(Public Law 115–123), up to $18,000,000 shall also
be available for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of major declared disasters oc-
curring in calendar year 2018: Provided, That
amounts repurposed under this heading that
were previously designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the Emergency
Relief Program as authorized under section 125
of title 23, United States Code, $1,650,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Community
Development Fund’’, $2,210,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for necessary expenses
for activities authorized under title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to disaster
relief, long-term recovery, restoration of infra-
structure and housing, economic revitalization,
and mitigation in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas resulting from a major disaster
that occurred in 2018 or 2019 (except as other-
wise provided under this heading) pursuant to
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):
Provided, That funds shall be awarded directly
to the State, unit of general local government,
or Indian tribe (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 102 of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974) at the discretion of the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under this heading $150,000,000
shall be allocated to meet unmet needs for res-
toration of infrastructure for grantees that re-
ceived allocations for disasters that occurred in
2017 (excluding grantees that received alloca-
tions related to disasters specified in section
501(a) of title V of this Act) under this heading
of division B of Public Law 115–56 and title XI
of subdivision 1 of division B of Public Law 115–
123: Provided further, That of the amounts pro-
vided in the previous proviso, the Secretary’s de-
termination of unmet needs for restoration of in-
frastructure shall not take into account mitiga-
tion-specific allocations: Provided further, That
any funds made available under this heading
and under the same heading in Public Law 115–
254 that remain available, after the funds under
such headings have been allocated for necessary
expenses for activities authorized under such
headings, shall be allocated to grantees receiv-
ing awards for disasters that occurred in 2018 or
2019, for mitigation activities in the most im-
pacted and distressed areas resulting from a
major disaster that occurred in 2018 or 2019:
Provided further, That allocations under the
previous proviso shall be made in the same pro-
portion that the amount of funds each grantee
received or will receive under this heading for
unmet needs related to disasters that occurred
in 2018 or 2019 and the same heading in division
I of Public Law 115–254 bears to the amount of
all funds provided to all grantees that received
allocations for disasters that occurred in 2018 or
2019: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under the text preceding the first
proviso under this heading and under the same
heading in Public Law 115–254, the Secretary
shall allocate to all such grantees an aggregate
amount not less than 33 percent of the sum of
such amounts of funds within 120 days after the
date of enactment of this Act based on the best
available data, and shall allocate no less than
100 percent of such funds by no later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall not
prohibit the use of funds made available under
this heading and the same heading in Public
Law 115–254 for non-Federal share as author-
ized by section 105(a)(9) of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C.
5305(a)(9)): Provided further, That of the
amounts made available under this heading,
grantees may establish grant programs to assist
small businesses for working capital purposes to
aid in recovery: Provided further, That as a
condition of making any grant, the Secretary
shall certify in advance that such grantee has
in place proficient financial controls and pro-
curement processes and has established ade-
quate procedures to prevent any duplication of
benefits as defined by section 312 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), to ensure timely
expenditure of funds, to maintain comprehen-
sive websites regarding all disaster recovery ac-
tivities assisted with these funds, and to detect
and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds:
Provided further, That with respect to any such
duplication of benefits, the Secretary shall act
in accordance with section 1210 of Public Law
115–254 (132 Stat. 3442) and section 312 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155): Provided
further, That the Secretary shall require grant-
ees to maintain on a public website information
containing common reporting criteria estab-
lished by the Department that permits individ-
uals and entities awaiting assistance and the
general public to see how all grant funds are
used, including copies of all relevant procure-
ment documents, grantee administrative con-
tracts and details of ongoing procurement proc-
esses, as determined by the Secretary: Provided
further, That prior to the obligation of funds a
grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary for
approval detailing the proposed use of all funds,
including criteria for eligibility and how the use
of these funds will address long-term recovery
and restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in the
most impacted and distressed areas: Provided
further, That such funds may not be used for
activities reimbursed by, or for which funds
have been made available by, the Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency or the Army Corps
of Engineers, in excess of the authorized amount
of the project or its components: Provided fur-
ther, That funds allocated under this heading
shall not be considered relevant to the non-dis-
aster formula allocations made pursuant to sec-
tion 106 of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Provided
further, That a State, unit of general local gov-
ernment, or Indian tribe may use up to 5 percent
of its allocation for administrative costs: Pro-
vided further, That the first proviso under this
heading in the Supplemental Appropriations for
Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2018 (division
I of Public Law 115–254) is amended by striking
‘‘State or unit of general local government’’ and
inserting ‘‘State, unit of general local govern-
ment, or Indian tribe (as such term is defined in
section 102 of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Pro-
vided further, That the sixth proviso under this
heading in the Supplemental Appropriations for
Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2018 (division
I of Public Law 115–254) is amended by striking
‘‘State or subdivision thereof’’ and inserting
‘‘State, unit of general local government, or In-
dian tribe (as such term is defined in section 102
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further,
That in administering the funds under this
heading, the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development may waive, or specify alternative
requirements for, any provision of any statute
or regulation that the Secretary administers in
connection with the obligation by the Secretary
or the use by the recipient of these funds (except
for requirements related to fair housing, non-
discrimination, labor standards, and the envi-
ronment), if the Secretary finds that good cause
exists for the waiver or alternative requirement
and such waiver or alternative requirement
would not be inconsistent with the overall pur-
pose of title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding the preceding proviso,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.008 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3699
May 10, 2019
recipients of funds provided under this heading
that use such funds to supplement Federal as-
sistance provided under section 402, 403, 404,
406, 407, 408(c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may adopt, without
review or public comment, any environmental
review, approval, or permit performed by a Fed-
eral agency, and such adoption shall satisfy the
responsibilities of the recipient with respect to
such environmental review, approval or permit:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)), the
Secretary may, upon receipt of a request for re-
lease of funds and certification, immediately ap-
prove the release of funds for an activity or
project assisted under this heading if the recipi-
ent has adopted an environmental review, ap-
proval or permit under the preceding proviso or
the activity or project is categorically excluded
from review under the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall publish
via notice in the Federal Register any waiver, or
alternative requirement, to any statute or regu-
lation that the Secretary administers pursuant
to title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 no later than 5 days before
the effective date of such waiver or alternative
requirement: Provided further, That of the
amounts made available under this heading, up
to $5,000,000 shall be made available for capac-
ity building and technical assistance, including
assistance on contracting and procurement
processes, to support States, units of general
local government, or Indian tribes (and their
subrecipients) that receive allocations pursuant
to this heading, received disaster recovery allo-
cations under the same heading in Public Law
115–254, or may receive similar allocations for
disaster recovery in future appropriations Acts:
Provided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate, to
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Program Office Salaries and Expenses—
Community Planning and Development’’ for
necessary costs, including information tech-
nology costs, of administering and overseeing
the obligation and expenditure of amounts
under this heading: Provided further, That the
amount specified in the preceding proviso shall
be combined with funds appropriated under the
same heading and for the same purpose in Pub-
lic Law 115–254 and the aggregate of such
amounts shall be available for any of the same
such purposes specified under this heading or
the same heading in Public Law 115–254 without
limitation: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided
further, That amounts repurposed under this
heading that were previously designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant
to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act are designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1001. (a) Amounts previously made avail-
able for activities authorized under title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to disaster
relief, long-term recovery, restoration of infra-
structure and housing, economic revitalization,
and mitigation in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas resulting from a major disaster, in-
cluding funds provided under section 145 of di-
vision C of Public Law 114–223, section 192 of di-
vision C of Public Law 114–223 (as added by sec-
tion 101(3) of division A of Public Law 114–254),
section 421 of division K of Public Law 115–31,
and any mitigation funding provided under the
heading ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban
Development—Community Planning and Devel-
opment—Community Development Fund’’ of
Public Law 115–123, that were allocated in re-
sponse to Hurricane Matthew, may be used
interchangeably and without limitation for the
same activities in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas related to Hurricane Florence. In
addition, any funds provided under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Planning and Development—
Community Development Fund’’ in this Act or
in division I of Public Law 115–254 that are allo-
cated in response to Hurricane Florence may be
used interchangeably and without limitation for
the same activities in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas related to Hurricane Matthew.
Until HUD publishes the Federal Register Notice
implementing this provision, grantees may sub-
mit for HUD approval revised plans for the use
of funds related to Hurricane Matthew that ex-
pand the eligible beneficiaries of existing pro-
grams contained in such previously approved
plans to include those impacted by Hurricane
Florence. Approval of any such revised plans
shall include the execution of revised grant
terms and conditions as necessary. Once the im-
plementing Notice is published, any additional
action plan revisions shall follow the require-
ments contained therein.
(b) Amounts made available for administrative
costs for activities authorized under title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to disaster
relief, long-term recovery, restoration of infra-
structure and housing, economic revitalization,
and mitigation in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas under this Act or any future Act,
and amounts previously provided under section
420 of division L of Public Law 114–113, section
145 of division C of Public Law 114–223, section
192 of division C of Public Law 114–223 (as
added by section 101(3) of division A of Public
Law 114–254), section 421 of division K of Public
Law 115–31, and under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—Com-
munity Planning and Development—Community
Development Fund’’ of division B of Public Law
115–56, Public Law 115–123, and Public Law 115–
254, shall be available for eligible administrative
costs of the grantee related to any disaster relief
funding identified in this subsection without re-
gard to the particular disaster appropriation
from which such funds originated.
(c) The additional uses pursuant to this sec-
tion for amounts that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress, respectively, as an
emergency requirement or as being for disaster
relief pursuant to the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act are designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985 or as being for disaster relief
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985.
TITLE XI
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
REAL PROPERTY ACTIVITIES
FEDERAL BUILDINGS FUND
For an additional amount, to be deposited in
the Federal Buildings Fund, $91,200,000, to re-
main available until expended, for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurricane
Florence for repair and alteration of buildings
under the custody and control of the Adminis-
trator of General Services, and real property
management and related activities not otherwise
provided for: Provided, That such amount may
be used to reimburse the Fund for obligations
incurred for this purpose prior to the date of the
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE XII
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
SEC. 1101. Each amount appropriated or made
available by this Act is in addition to amounts
otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year in-
volved.
SEC. 1102. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for ob-
ligation beyond the current fiscal year unless
expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 1103. Unless otherwise provided for by
this Act, the additional amounts appropriated
by this division to appropriations accounts shall
be available under the authorities and condi-
tions applicable to such appropriations accounts
for fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 1104. Each amount designated in this Act
by the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or re-
scinded or transferred, if applicable) only if the
President subsequently so designates all such
amounts and transmits such designations to the
Congress.
SEC. 1105. Any amount appropriated by this
Act designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 and subsequently so des-
ignated by the President, and transferred pursu-
ant to transfer authorities provided by this divi-
sion shall retain such designation.
SEC. 1106. Of all amounts made available for
mitigation activities under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—Com-
munity Development Fund’’ in Public Law 115–
123, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal
Register the allocations to all eligible grantees,
and the necessary administrative requirements
applicable to such allocations within 90 days
after enactment of this Act:
(1) For any plans or amendments addressing
the use of any funds provided under Public Law
115–123 and received by the Secretary prior to
December 22, 2018, the Secretary shall review
pending amendments within 15 days of enact-
ment of this Act and pending plans within 30
days of enactment of this Act.
(2) After the date of this Act, the Secretary
may not apply the statutory waiver or alter-
native requirement authority provided by Public
Law 115–123 to extend or otherwise alter existing
statutory and regulatory provisions governing
the timeline for review of required grantee
plans.
Provided, That the amounts provided by this
section are designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided
further, That amounts repurposed under this
heading that were previously designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant
to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 are designated by the Con-
gress as an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 1107. (a) FINANCING.—Section 1309(a) of
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 4016(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘May 31,
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’.
(b) PROGRAM EXPIRATION.—Section 1319 of the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C.
4026) is amended by striking ‘‘May 31, 2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘September 30, 2019’’.
(c) RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE.—If this
Act is enacted after May 31, 2019, the amend-
ments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take
effect as if enacted on May 31, 2019.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Supplemental
Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
The CHAIR. No further amendment
to the bill, as amended, is in order ex-
cept those printed in part C of House
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.008 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3700 May 10, 2019
Report 116–51. Each such further
amendment may be offered only in the
order printed in the report, by a Mem-
ber designated in the report, shall be
considered read, shall be debatable for
the time specified in the report, equal-
ly divided and controlled by the pro-
ponent and an opponent, shall not be
subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the
question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR.
PERLMUTTER
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 1 printed in part
C of House Report 116–51.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 11, line 14, insert ‘‘(increased by
$5,000,000)’’ after the dollar amount.
Page 11, line 22, insert ‘‘(increased by
$5,000,000)’’ after the dollar amount.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 357, the gentleman from Colo-
rado (Mr. PERLMUTTER) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Colorado.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, as we work to rebuild
from hurricanes, flooding, and other
natural disasters through this supple-
mental appropriations bill, I am glad
the Appropriations Committee in-
cluded funding to improve U.S. weather
forecasting, modeling, and computing
capabilities.
Improving our forecasting abilities
can save lives and protect property,
which is exactly the mission charged to
the National Weather Service. My
amendment adds an additional $5 mil-
lion for NOAA’s weather forecasting,
modeling, and cloud computing pro-
grams and helps accelerate implemen-
tation of the new Earth Prediction In-
novation Center, or EPIC, for short.
Congress authorized EPIC late last
year to serve as a center of excellence
to create an agile, focused, and measur-
able approach to community involve-
ment in improving weather fore-
casting. The center will create a com-
munity global weather research mod-
eling system that is publicly available
to encourage collaboration. It will also
strengthen NOAA’s ability to under-
take innovative research projects.
Importantly, EPIC has an oppor-
tunity to continue breaking down bar-
riers by accelerating the transfer of re-
search to operations and operations to
research, which will improve our
weather forecasting enterprise. Im-
proving these capabilities will help ev-
eryone across the country, and I urge
all my colleagues to support my
amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield 30 seconds to
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
SERRANO).
Mr. SERRANO. Madam Chair, I rise
in strong support of my friend from
Colorado’s amendment which would in-
crease funding to improve NOAA’s
weather forecasting abilities.
This is an issue that we have to deal
with. This is an issue that has to be
dealt with in a proper way. This
amendment does that. As chairman of
the subcommittee that oversees this
section of the bill, I approve of, and I
hope my colleagues will vote for, the
amendment.
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman, and as there is
no opposition, I will close.
Madam Chair, I would urge support
for this amendment. I see my friend,
Mr. DUNN, who has been in front of the
Rules Committee half a dozen times on
issues relating to this disaster relief
bill and the impact that it has had on
his State, Florida, and all of the South-
east United States and throughout the
Midwest.
We have heard the gentlewoman from
Texas make a great case for this bill,
generally.
Madam Chair, I urge support of my
amendment, and I urge support of the
overall disaster relief bill. We need it
now, not later.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Colorado (Mr. PERLMUTTER).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Colorado will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MRS.
RADEWAGEN
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 2 printed in part
C of House Report 116–51.
Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 9, line 8, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(increased by $13,000,000)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 357, the gentlewoman from
American Samoa (Mrs. RADEWAGEN)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from American Samoa.
Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Madam Chair, I
rise to offer an amendment, and I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, I rise for the purpose
of offering an amendment to provide an
increase in American Samoa’s nutri-
tional assistance grant funding by $13
million in order to ensure food security
for the American Samoan population
due to damages sustained by Cyclone
Gita in February 2018.
Cyclone Gita’s ravaging 100-miles-
per-hour-plus winds and torrential
rains of over 30 inches devastated fam-
ily farms and small farm businesses,
farms that most American Samoans
need for their immediate and extended
families for subsistence purposes or to
generate small business income. Cy-
clone Gita wiped out an entire growing
season for the American Samoan farm-
er.
But this is a hand up, not a hand out,
Madam Chair. This emergency food
aid, along with the additional Medicaid
funding Federal matching support in
this bill, will allow American Samoans
to get back on their feet and fight for
their community and country. It is
what we do best.
American Samoa has been the num-
ber one Army recruiting station in
America for 2 of the last 5 years and
suffered the worst casualty rate in the
Iraq war, both on a per capita basis.
This bill will truly help our local vet-
erans, soldiers, and their families,
churches, and greater community get
back to their fighting weight.
Madam Chair, I thank Chairman
MCGOVERN for his leadership on nutri-
tional assistance programs for so many
years and Ranking Member COLE and
the Rules Committee members for lis-
tening to my testimony and providing
this opportunity.
I thank Chairwoman LOWEY and
Ranking Member GRANGER for their
consideration, as well as thanks to Ag
Subcommittee Chairman BISHOP and
Ranking Member ADERHOLT.
I thank President Trump for swiftly
declaring an emergency and FEMA for
their response, and especially our Gov-
ernor, Lolo Moliga, and his staff at
home and in D.C., who have been so
helpful on this request, and for his
leadership in the recovery efforts.
Madam Chair, I ask again for your
support for this emergency food assist-
ance need for American Samoa.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition to
the amendment, even though I am not
opposed to it.
The CHAIR. Without objection, the
gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Chair, on October 10, 2018, my district
took a direct hit from Hurricane Mi-
chael, one of the most powerful storms
to make landfall in U.S. history. It
slammed into the Florida panhandle
and drove through much of the South-
east, leaving a path of destruction all
the way up to Virginia.
In Georgia, many producers suffered
nearly 100 percent crop losses. Hurri-
cane Michael killed more than 2 mil-
lion chickens and devastated the Geor-
gia cotton crop, which was nearing
peak harvest and was on track to be
the best crop in years. This is the third
straight year hurricane damage caused
significant losses to peanut, pecan, cot-
ton, vegetable, landscaping, and the
agri-tourism industries.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.013 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3701
May 10, 2019
The Carolinas also suffered billions
in damages a month earlier from Hurri-
cane Florence. Californians had an-
other devastating fire season, including
both the largest and deadliest fires on
record. In Hawaii, volcanic activity
cost pineapple farmers nearly $30 mil-
lion in damages. Americans in the Mar-
iana Islands and American Samoa were
also hit by cyclones.
To meet these needs, this House
passed and sent to the Senate an emer-
gency supplemental appropriations bill
on January 16 that allocated $14 billion
in emergency spending to help families
and communities recover from these
hurricanes, wildfires, and other natural
disasters.
Agriculture provided $3 billion for
crop losses, $150 million for the Rural
Community Facilities Program, $480
million for the Emergency Forest Res-
toration Program, and $125 million for
the Emergency Watershed Program.
They provided $600 million in des-
perately needed funds to help with
Puerto Rico’s continued recovery from
Hurricane Diane in 2017.
Madam Chair, I thank my fellow
Georgian, AUSTIN SCOTT, and the bipar-
tisan leadership, the House leadership,
our committees for quickly getting
this bill passed. But as we passed it and
sent it to the Senate, the Trump Office
of Management and Budget issued a
Statement of Administration Policy
saying that FEMA had enough money
and that this money was not needed.
That could not be further from the
truth. I disagree. Farmers and commu-
nities in all of the impacted States dis-
agree, and even the USDA disagrees.
The emergency supplemental appro-
priations bill has been stalled in the
Senate for 4 long months, with no ac-
tion and no relief for Americans who
are suffering. American farmers are
living through the worst economic cri-
sis in 30 years, driven by low com-
modity prices, trade war pressures, and
natural disasters. Those impacted have
had their patience stretched thin and
cannot wait any longer for disaster as-
sistance that they were promised.
Right now, due to the disaster losses,
farmers can’t pay their operational
loans from last year, nor can they get
new loans to plant and operate this
year. Planting season is now. We al-
ready are in the growing season, with
conditions permitting normal growth.
If we miss this window, it will have
lasting effects on agriculture produc-
tion, including food, fiber, building ma-
terials, and fuel, that will increase
costs for American consumers all over
this country.
We are about to enter the 2019 hurri-
cane season, which starts June 1. So
today I am once again supporting this
emergency supplemental bill, as more
disasters have hit since the last bill
passed, the latest being terrible floods
in the Midwest and tornadoes that
ripped through Georgia and Alabama.
This expanded supplemental bill will
provide for the needs of those who suf-
fered in those disasters and will add $3
billion, bringing the appropriations
total to $17.2 billion, which will cover
all disasters and get much-needed
funds to those who were devastated and
affected by Hurricane Michael.
b 1000
From coast to coast throughout the
territories, there is an urgent need for
this disaster bill. As I said last Octo-
ber, after touring the damage from
Hurricane Michael with the President,
Vice President, and the Secretary of
Agriculture, responding to natural dis-
asters and helping our communities re-
cover is a responsibility that we all
share, regardless of ideology or polit-
ical affiliation. Failure to respond now
will result in failures later and suf-
fering later throughout this country.
Madam Chair, I urge my House and
Senate colleagues to support this bill
to finally bring relief to our long-suf-
fering communities.
Madam Chair, I support the gentle-
woman’s amendment, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from American Samoa (Mrs.
RADEWAGEN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. SABLAN
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 3 printed in part
C of House Report 116–51.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 37, line 23, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $8,800,000)’’.
Page 37, line 24, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $8,800,000)’’.
Page 38, line 21, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $8,800,000)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 357, the gentleman from the
Northern Mariana Islands (Mr. SABLAN)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from the Northern Mariana Islands.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, Congress will depend
on the expertise of Federal agencies to
tell us how much funding is needed by
communities recovering from disaster.
That was the case when the House
passed H.R. 268 on January 16. We set
aside $10.4 million in that bill for water
and sewer recovery for areas impacted
by Super Typhoon Yutu, and we relied
on the Environmental Protection
Agency to verify that amount.
But, as happens in recovery situa-
tions, preliminarily estimates were not
completely accurate. When debris is re-
moved, unseen damage is revealed.
In March, after the House passed H.R.
268, EPA revised its estimate of the
cost for repairing sewer systems in the
Marianas. But H.R. 2157, the bill now
under consideration, has not taken
that new March estimate from EPA
into account. H.R. 2157 simply repeats
what was in H.R. 268, the January bill.
The amendment I am offering instead
relies on EPA’s new, updated assess-
ment of the true need.
Madam Chair, I include in the
RECORD EPA’s estimate.
EPA-RELATED PROJECTS TO SUPPORT TY-
PHOON YUTU RECOVERY IN CNMI COMMUNITY
PLANNING AND CAPACITY BUILDING, INFRA-
STRUCTURE SYSTEMS, AND NATURAL AND
CULTURAL RESOURCES, MARCH 20, 2019
Smart, Safe Growth. Implement next phase
of the ongoing FEMA-funded, EPA-managed
Smart, Safe Growth project which has helped
the CNMI identify policies and practices to
encourage sustainable growth and long-term
resiliency. Using contractors and direct as-
sistance, help the CNMI government analyze
and implement recent International Building
Codes and incorporate smart safe growth
practices into local permit decisions and
longterm planning. Cost: $1.5M
Treatment for PFAS-contaminated well. Pro-
vide Granular Activated Carbon (GAC) treat-
ment for 6 drinking water wells contami-
nated by PFAS (associated with fire retard-
ant). Benefit: would add about one-half mil-
lion gallons per day (0.5 MGD) to Saipan’s
water supply; would significantly improve
the ability to recover drinking water avail-
ability and safety in another disaster. Cost:
$2.5M
New Dandan 1.0 MG water tank. Install a
new 1.0 MG tank next to the existing 0.5 MG
Dandan water tank to enhance water deliv-
ery during a disaster and meet projected
long-term system demand. Cost: $4.0M
Waterline and service line replacement. Re-
place deteriorating waterlines (Texas Rd to
Oleai, San Antonio/Afetnas, and San Roque
distribution systems), and deteriorating
service lines to homes and businesses (San
Roque, Tanapag service areas). Benefit:
would significantly reduce leaks and im-
prove drinking water system integrity;
would improve drinking water resiliency
during a disaster. Cost: $7.5M
New Kagman Reservoir. Start construction
of USDA NRCS-proposed 75 MG Water res-
ervoir, delayed 25 years due to lack of fund-
ing. Benefit: would eliminate agriculture use
of CUC drinking water for farming, increase
drinking water supply by 30 percent, reduce
drinking water salinity, and improve drink-
ing water quality. Cost: $8M
SCADA (water and sewer). Expand Super-
visory Control and Data Acquisition
(SCADA), an electronic network control sys-
tem, from the current pilot (serving one
water tank system) to a utility-wide system
for drinking water and wastewater. Benefit:
would improve water monitoring, water pro-
duction, water billing, water distribution
management, and wastewater conveyance
and treatment management; would decrease
water loss, waste, and energy consumption;
and facilitate better strategic planning and
decisions. Cost: $5.0M
Agingan Wastewater Treatment Plant up-
grades. Numerous upgrades are necessary for
the WWTP to meet EPA permit conditions.
As a result of previous deficiencies and dam-
age inflicted by Typhoon Yutu, about 1 MGD
of barely-treated sewage effluent is dis-
charged to the ocean on an ongoing basis.
Upgrades needed include: aerator replace-
ment, VFD drive installation, sludge
dewatering screw press, headworks rehab,
electrical rehab, corroded pipe support re-
placement, and hydrogen sulfide controls.
Benefits: provide adequate wastewater treat-
ment to protect human health and the envi-
ronment. Cost: $2.4M
Sadog Tasi Wastewater Treatment Plant up-
grades. Situation is similar to Agingan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.016 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3702 May 10, 2019
WWTP with even additional needed up-
grades, including clarifier retrofit and im-
provements to sludge digester. Cost: $3.2M
Lift Station upgrades. Lift stations need
new pumps, piping and valves, VFD controls,
generator overhaul, and wetwell aeration to
improve compliance, as well as gates, fenc-
ing, and lighting to improve security.
Backup generators damaged by flooding and
high winds also need improvements. Benefit:
would reduce sewage spills and overflows on
land and nearshore, both following a disaster
and on a long-term basis. Cost: $8.4M
Lower Base and Beach Road Sewer system re-
placement. Replace the deteriorating old (pre-
Trust Territories era) sewage collection sys-
tem in Lower Base (Saipan’s main industrial
area), including installation of one new lift
station Along Beach Road, replace deterio-
rating old sewage lines as CNMI DPW makes
roadway improvements. (Note the Beach
Road project cost includes only Phase I at
$2.5M; the entire project would cost $12M.)
Cost: $7.0M
Marpi Landfill improvements. Debris from
Typhoon Yutu and other recent typhoons are
enough to ‘‘fill half a Rose Bowl.’’ Much of
the debris is lying on open ground next to
the existing Marpi Landfill, exacerbating an
already non-compliant situation. The land-
fill’s Cell #1 is already overcapacity. Cell #2
has been constructed but requires repairs
and additional enhancements before it is
RCRA-compliant and can accept waste. Cell
#3 is designed but requires construction in
order to accommodate typhoon debris as well
as Saipan’s regular municipal waste. Cost:
$32M ($12M for Cell #2 repairs + $20M for Cell
#3 construction)
Tinian landfill construction. No landfill cur-
rently exists on Tinian. A new landfill is
needed to accommodate typhoon debris as
well as municipal waste. Cost: $12M
Rota landfill construction. No landfill cur-
rently exists on Rota. A new landfill is need-
ed to accommodate typhoon debris as well as
municipal waste. Cost $12M
Provide a Sustainability Advisor for recovery
operations. This position will advise the
FEMA Interagency Recovery Coordination
team, Recovery Support Functions (RSFs),
Federal, territorial and local officials on sus-
tainable communities, climate change adap-
tation and low-impact growth, materials and
products for recovery planners in the adapta-
tion of sustainable, green, and resilient prin-
ciples and practices.
Access to EPA’s Recovery/Sustainability HQ
blanket purchase agreement (BPA) capacity
that can provide expect subject matter as-
sistance. This blanket purchase agreement is
focused on technical assistance related to as-
sessing policy barriers and facilitating plan-
ning workshops which covers a range of top-
ics related to community revitalization. The
core subject matter of the assistance will
center upon community revitalization, but
the expertise required includes topics such
as:
Strategies for encouraging redevelopment
in distressed neighborhoods
Resiliency/hazard mitigation/sustainable
long-term recovery
Green infrastructure and complete streets
Equitable development
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and
scenario planning tools
Community wealth building strategies in
collaboration with anchor institutions,
Economic diversification through place-
based local food system expansion,
Improving human health through healthy
community design
Broadband internet as a catalyst for work-
force and small business development
Revitalization strategies based on rec-
reational assets
Public engagement, including with hard-
to-reach or environmentally overburdened
populations.
Air Quality & Energy. Provide staff exper-
tise on energy efficiency (including
EnergySTAR resources), renewable energy,
and electric vehicle readiness to assist with
rebuilding efforts.
Drinking Water Systems. Develop and in-
crease the capacity and resiliency of public
water systems by supporting capacity devel-
opment and operator certification programs.
Brownfields and Land Revitalization. Help
the CNMI identify brownfields that support
long-term sustainability planning efforts
and can be redeveloped for a higher public
use. Ensure brownfields redevelopment and
land revitalization are included as priorities
in local planning efforts; advance the reuse
of sites perceived as being contaminated
post- and pre-typhoon.
Mr. SABLAN. EPA reports that funds
will be needed to upgrade the Agingan
and Sadog Tasi wastewater treatment
plants ‘‘as a result of damage inflicted
by Typhoon Yutu,’’ and for lift stations
and backup generators that were
‘‘damaged by flooding and high winds.’’
EPA says these projects cost $14 mil-
lion.
My amendment takes into account
funding already in the base bill, how-
ever, and asks only for an increase of
$8.8 million. Again, this requested in-
crease is based on EPA’s estimates
only available after passage of H.R. 268,
the bill on which H.R. 2157 is based.
Madam Chair, I ask my colleagues
for their support of my amendment,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Madam Chair, I
rise in opposition to the amendment,
although I am not opposed to it.
The CHAIR. Without objection, the
gentlewoman from American Samoa is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Madam Chair, I
rise in support of Vice Chairman
SABLAN’s amendment to provide much-
needed emergency funding to repair the
wastewater treatment plants dev-
astated by Typhoon Yutu.
I thank the vice chairman for his
leadership on disaster assistance and
for securing a Medicaid hearing for the
U.S. territories. The upcoming hearing
will provide an opportunity for terri-
tory Medicaid issues to be brought to
the forefront of Congress so that we
can solve our access and funding issues,
ensuring future equity and account-
ability for our Medicaid programs.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, I have
no further speakers. I ask for support
of Sablan amendment No. 3 and the un-
derlying bill, H.R. 2157.
Madam Chair, I thank my colleague
and friend from American Samoa for
her support of the bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from the Northern Mariana Islands
(Mr. SABLAN).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from the Northern Mariana Islands will
be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. DUNN
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 4 printed in part
C of House Report 116–51.
Mr. DUNN. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 58, line 5, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(increased by $385,000,000)’’.
Page 59, line 3, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(increased by $300,000,000)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 357, the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DUNN) and a Member opposed each
will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Florida.
Mr. DUNN. Madam Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, my amendment in-
creases military construction funding
in the bill for the Air Force and the
United States Marine Corps.
Last year, Hurricanes Florence and
Michael destroyed two of our Nation’s
premier combat and training bases.
Camp Lejeune in North Carolina sus-
tained $3.6 billion in damages due to
Hurricane Florence. Lejeune is critical
to our Nation’s defenses not only for
the Marine Corps, but it is also home
to a major Navy command and a Coast
Guard command.
The base’s unique access to two deep-
water ports allows for rapid seaborne
deployments. It also has vast amounts
of land and deep training resources.
This is what makes Camp Lejeune the
home of ‘‘Expeditionary Forces in
Readiness.’’
Tyndall Air Force Base, in my dis-
trict in Florida, took a direct hit from
a Category 5 storm, Hurricane Michael.
Tyndall is home to the largest F–22
base in the world. It is one of only two
Air Force bases that has immediate ac-
cess to the Eglin Gulf Test and Train-
ing Range, a range that is like no other
in the world. Our airmen are able to
train and test on the next generation
of supersonic and hypersonic aircraft
and weapons systems in a live-fire en-
vironment.
A few months ago, President Trump
came, and he ordered the Air Force to
make Tyndall a fifth-generation Air
Force base outfitted with three squad-
rons of F–35s and a squadron of MQ–9s.
This rebuild will cost $2.7 billion in
military construction alone, and it will
make Tyndall the base of the future.
My amendment will raise MILCON
funding in fiscal year 2019 up to $500
million for the Marine Corps and up to
$1 billion for the Air Force. This is
only a downpayment to help these
services continue on their rebuilds.
This funding is crucial for our mili-
tary. Our Nation’s defense is in crisis,
and our readiness will continue to dete-
riorate if we do not provide the nec-
essary funds to our armed services im-
mediately.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:29 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.012 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3703
May 10, 2019
I would like to make a couple of
other points that sometimes seem to
get lost in our discussions.
The Federal Government knows that
it self-insures the military. From the
moment the storms occurred, it was 100
percent certain that we were going to
need a disaster supplemental. By law,
the funds cannot come from FEMA,
and they cannot come from HUD. They
must be directly appropriated by this
Congress.
Hurricane Michael was a unique
storm. It was more like a tornado than
a hurricane, but it was a tornado that
was 80 miles wide and 120 miles deep. In
my district, we have 3 million acres of
land that is crushed.
By way of comparison, in 2017, three
hurricanes affected Florida: Hermine,
Maria, and Irma. Fifty counties were
affected.
Just the county that Tyndall Air
Force base sits in has already cleaned
up 30 million cubic yards of debris,
compared with less than 3 million in
those 50 counties in 2017. Nobody in the
history of America has ever seen this
much debris. We estimate that we are
20 percent of the way through our de-
bris cleanup, and we have done more
than anybody has ever seen in history.
What are we going to do with these
bases? Well, we are going to rebuild
them. Of course, we are going to re-
build them. We love our military, and
we need our military.
I have never been prouder of any
group than I have been of the airmen
at Tyndall and the job that they have
done to stand that base back up. They
already have the first Air Force head-
quarters up and running, and that is
air defense for all of North America.
And we are ready to take back the F–
22 training mission.
Madam Chair, I am proud to say that
Tyndall has done a great job rebuild-
ing, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to
the amendment, although I am not op-
posed to it.
The CHAIR. Without objection, the
gentlewoman from Florida is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
Madam Chair, I toured Tyndall Air
Force Base a couple of months ago
with Congressman DUNN. I commend
the gentleman for offering this amend-
ment, and I have enjoyed working with
him on making sure that we can
prioritize this vital funding. I appre-
ciate the ranking member and Chair-
woman LOWEY’s support.
Congressman LAWSON also joined us
in February to survey the devastating
damage Tyndall sustained because of
Hurricane Michael. It was very clear to
me, back in February, that Tyndall ur-
gently needs supplemental funds to re-
build.
Tyndall Air Force Base, which is in
my home State as well, encompasses
29,000 acres in southeastern Dade Coun-
ty. Within the base, facilities amount
to a total replacement value of $3.48
billion.
Tyndall accounts for 37 percent of
Dade County’s economy. The base
serves a population of 3,393 Active mili-
tary personnel, as well as 9,383 retirees
from all service branches.
The supplemental before us contains
$700 million for ‘‘Military Construc-
tion, Air Force’’ for planning and de-
sign and construction as requested by
the Air Force to support relocation of
F–22s, F–35 beddown, and facilities nec-
essary to begin the rebuilding of the in-
stallation. That number is now out-
dated and must be increased to meet
the Air Force’s needs.
The Dunn amendment, plus what is
currently included in the supple-
mental, is a good first step to helping
Tyndall rebuild and get back on its
feet.
I am also pleased the gentleman from
Florida included funds for the Marine
Corps. As all of us know, North Caro-
lina was hit by Hurricane Florence,
which devastated all of the Marine
Corps facilities in North Carolina.
The Marine Corps community con-
tinues to face daily challenges fol-
lowing Hurricane Florence. Although
the storm made landfall on December
14, 2018, marines at Camp Lejeune, Ma-
rine Corps Air Station New River, and
Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point
are still recovering.
Camp Lejeune, New River, and Cher-
ry Point heavily contribute to Marine
Corps readiness, and Camp Lejeune is
home to the Second Marine Expedi-
tionary Force, which oversees and
maintains a third of the Marine Corps’
combat operating power. Several head-
quarters buildings, training facilities,
and aircraft hangars were affected by
Hurricane Florence.
While II MEF is now able to meet
operational commitments, its training
environments remain degraded. Cur-
rently, marines are working in com-
promised facilities and temporary
trailers. Furthermore, marines headed
to Camp Lejeune are being told to look
for housing off base due to a lack of
availability of on-base housing and
substantial damage caused by the
storm.
Like the Air Force number, the Ma-
rine Corps number is also now out-
dated. I support the $385 million in-
crease to this account, as well.
The Trump administration, unfortu-
nately, still has not submitted an
emergency supplemental for these and
other disasters. Frankly, these facili-
ties need relief, and they need it now.
b 1015
It has been over 200 days since Hurri-
cane Michael and Florence devastated
North Carolina and Florida. It should
not be taking this long to provide the
necessary and vital funding to these lo-
cations.
Stunningly, I want to repeat, the
President has not even proposed emer-
gency supplemental funding for these
disasters, and this morning, actually
had the gall to urge Republicans to
vote against this vital legislation.
Madam Chair, I urge all Members to
support the Dunn amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. DUNN. Madam Chair, I yield the
balance of my time to the gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. GRANGER), my
friend and colleague.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I rise
in support of the gentleman’s amend-
ment. These funds are critical to re-
pairing and rebuilding our military
bases affected by the recent storms.
I look forward to working with the
gentleman to secure critical funding
for our military in a final agreement
that can be signed by the President.
I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on this amend-
ment.
Mr. DUNN. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
Madam Chair, I am a strong supporter
of our armed forces. I fully support the
rebuilding of Tyndall Air Force Base
and the North Carolina Marine Corps
Bases and urge Members to support the
Dunn amendment. I commend the gen-
tleman for his advocacy for his com-
munity and for our home State, as well
as the underlying legislation so we can
make sure that we can finally help
these military communities rebuild.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. DUNN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR.
CUNNINGHAM
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 5 printed in part
C of House Report 116–51.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 16, line 12, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $270,000,000)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 357, the gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. CUNNINGHAM) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from South Carolina.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair,
my bipartisan amendment will allow
the Air Force to repair and rebuild
bases that were badly damaged by re-
cent natural disasters and will restore
funding for critical projects aboard the
Nuclear Power Training Unit at Joint
Base Charleston.
Without the additional $270 million
my amendment provides, the Air Force
has stated that they will need to divert
funding from projects across the coun-
try to rebuild Tyndall and Offutt Air
Force Bases.
This would have disastrous effects on
the readiness of our armed forces and
on our national security.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.022 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3704 May 10, 2019
The operational success of our Navy
is dependent on highly trained crews.
The NPTU uses real nuclear power
plants aboard retired submarines to
train sailors to operate and maintain
our nuclear power fleet.
And starting this month, the
Lowcountry will be the only place in
the Nation where sailors can learn
these highly technical skills, which are
fundamental to our Navy’s ability to
maintain its worldwide presence and
ensure the security of the global com-
mons.
That is why it is urgent that we pass
this amendment and ensure the NPTU
has the resources to modernize and re-
pair its training facilities and ensure
that the pipeline of newly trained nu-
clear operators is not disrupted.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I ask
unanimous consent to claim time in
opposition, although I do not oppose
the amendment.
The CHAIR. Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from Indiana?
There was no objection.
The CHAIR. The gentleman is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
rise in support of the gentleman’s
amendment.
We are still waiting for a final dam-
age assessment, and we understand
that the Air Force has just adjusted its
original fiscal assessment.
The underlying bill includes $400 mil-
lion for the airport. The Cunningham
amendment will increase the amount
to a total of $670 million.
The need for additional funding is
acute. I have two of my colleagues who
will also speak on that need.
I would simply point out that I deep-
ly regret at this late date that the ad-
ministration still has not made official
requests to fund the needs of both the
Air Force and the Marines in the recov-
ery from last fall’s hurricane.
Absent a comprehensive request, the
funds necessary to address the exten-
sive damage for these key installations
will be provided in an inefficient and
piecemeal fashion.
I would urge the administration, and
particularly, the Office of Management
and Budget and the Secretary of De-
fense, to finally send a full and detailed
cost assessment to Congress and prop-
erly prioritize rebuilding of these in-
stallations.
I yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman
from Nebraska (Mr. FORTENBERRY), my
colleague.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Madam Chair,
first, let me thank Chairman VIS-
CLOSKY for the time and for his efforts
here, as well as the gentleman from
South Carolina (Mr. CUNNINGHAM), for
offering this very important amend-
ment to the bill.
Madam Chair, it is pretty jarring
when you stand in your district at a
major piece of America’s military in-
frastructure, Offutt Air Force Base,
and it is a third underwater.
Offutt Air Force Base is also home to
Strategic Command, which is the com-
mand that is in charge of our nuclear
enterprise here and around the world.
In March of this year, a furious slur-
ry of soil and water and ice rushed
down the Platte and Elkhorn Rivers. It
crossed over the Missouri, hit the Iowa
levee, blew it out, dug a 62-foot hole,
and then water began to come back up
the Missouri River.
Offutt Air Force Base sits at the con-
fluence of the Platte and Missouri Riv-
ers, and this is what forced the flood-
ing.
I am very grateful, again, to my col-
leagues for recognizing that this is a
disaster that needs national attention,
along with the other natural disasters
that have hit our country, particularly
Tyndall Air Force Base, as well.
This amendment provides the funds
to the Air Force operations and main-
tenance accounts to rebuild essential
military infrastructure in my district
and around the country. It will help us
rebuild hangars and other buildings at
Offutt, and this is in dire need.
I am pleased that my colleagues have
recognized that this package, $120 mil-
lion of which could potentially go to
Offutt, is also essential for helping our
Nation rebound from the various nat-
ural disasters that have hit us.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
yield the balance of my time to the
gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. BACON).
Mr. BACON. Madam Chair, I appre-
ciate the bipartisan work here to sup-
port our bases that need to be rebuilt.
I urge the support of this amendment
to increase the Air Force O&M budget
in the Disaster Aid Package to a total
of $670 million for recovery of the mili-
tary bases that sustained extensive
damage by the recent storms.
In March, my district in my home
State of Nebraska experienced dev-
astating floods where lives were lost
and the scale of the destruction made
it the worst natural disaster in our 152-
year history as a State.
The damage to Nebraska’s infrastruc-
ture, agriculture, and local economy is
extensive and includes Offutt Air Force
Base, one of the two largest employers
in our area.
At the height of the storm, one-third
of the base was under water, 3,000 peo-
ple were displaced from their work cen-
ters, and 1.2 million square feet of mis-
sion space was lost. The flight line was
inoperable, with a third of the runway
under water. Many structures incurred
significant damages, and critical sys-
tems were destroyed.
Our Nation owes a debt of gratitude
to those men and women at Offutt that
worked relentlessly to save what they
could. The mission impact and cost to
the taxpayers would have been worse
without their heroic efforts.
So I am very grateful for the bipar-
tisan leadership here and the team-
work by Representatives CUNNINGHAM,
FORTENBERRY, DUNN, and so many oth-
ers to make this a reality.
You know, Offutt is one of the two
primary intelligence surveillance re-
connaissance hubs in our country, and
it is the home of StratComm, so it is
vital that we get this done.
Madam Chair, I thank the gentleman
for yielding, and we need to support
this amendment.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Chair, I
support the amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. DUNN).
Mr. DUNN. Madam Chair, I rise
today because the United States Air
Force is in desperate need of our help.
I am proud to cosponsor this amend-
ment that raises the Air Force funding
levels for fiscal year 2019.
Our amendment brings the oper-
ations and maintenance account up to
$670 million, which is the minimum the
Air Force needs to continue to rebuild
Offutt and Tyndall Air Force Bases.
On October 10th, Tyndall—in my dis-
trict—took a direct hit from Category
5 Hurricane Michael.
Now, 7 months later, no supple-
mental funding has been provided.
That is irresponsible.
On May 1, Secretary Wilson was
forced to halt all work rebuilding Tyn-
dall due to lack of funds. This is a se-
vere blow to our Nation’s military
readiness.
These bases are critical to our Na-
tion’s defense for both combat and
training missions, and some of the mis-
sions literally cannot be duplicated
anywhere else in the world.
Madam Chair, our ability to defend
America is suffering. My district and
many other districts across our Nation
are suffering from hurricanes, fires,
and floods.
Madam Chair, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the amendment.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair, I
thank my colleagues Mr. DUNN, Mr.
FORTENBERRY, and Mr. BACON for their
commitment, and for joining me in of-
fering this bipartisan amendment. I
also thank the men and women of our
Armed Forces.
I urge all my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle to vote in favor of this bi-
partisan commonsense amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr.
CUNNINGHAM).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. HUFFMAN
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 6 printed in part
C of House Report 116–51.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill (before the short
title) insert the following:
SEC. lll.
None of the funds made available by this
Act may be used to enforce section 668.105(h)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.026 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3705
May 10, 2019
of title 23, Code of Federal Regulations, for
any projects in response to disasters that oc-
curred in fiscal year 2017 or thereafter.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 357, the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. HUFFMAN) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I thank Chairwoman
LOWEY for her work on this disaster
supplemental, as well as her broader ef-
forts to advance this disaster funding.
It is unfortunate that our colleagues in
the Senate have not yet acted to de-
liver disaster relief to communities
across the country.
My amendment responds to the needs
of communities who are rebuilding
their highway infrastructure after dis-
asters.
I am joined in these efforts by my
colleagues, HARLEY ROUDA and NORMA
TORRES from California. I thank them
for their support. And I would also like
to thank the California State Associa-
tion of Counties for their important
work on this issue in support of this
amendment.
We need to send a clear message to
the Federal Highway Administration.
Congress expects FHWA to work with
communities who are simply seeking
reasonable extensions for the use of
their emergency relief funding.
Under current policy, the FHWA re-
quires that when a road or highway
suffers serious damage, the State or
local agency receiving Federal assist-
ance must begin the construction
project within 2 years of the disaster.
And we all agree that Federal money
should get out the door as quickly as
possible.
But this well-intended policy allows
for extensions, if there are reasonable
difficulties in moving toward construc-
tion.
Sometimes it just takes longer than
expected to scope a project, to finalize
all the permits. In other cases, the
scale of the disaster itself means that
counties simply don’t have the capac-
ity to move all their projects to con-
struction within 2 years, even though
they are moving as quickly as they can
and doing everything right.
The problem is, in a recent decision,
FHWA began denying a series of exten-
sion requests, including one in Hum-
boldt County, in my district.
My amendment would pause FHWA’s
ability to deny these extensions mov-
ing forward. And I hope this amend-
ment gives FHWA the opportunity to
correct course and to get back to work-
ing with communities who are trying
to rebuild as quickly as they can.
Communities across the country, es-
pecially those in California recovering
from flood and fire, are now facing the
possibility of paying back millions of
dollars that they desperately need,
adding insult to injury.
How widespread is this problem?
Well, State-wide in California, FHWA
denied 66 out of 73 projects requesting
an extension. So we need some help,
and we need this amendment.
b 1030
We need this amendment. This
amendment will not address all of the
problems caused by FHWA’s extension
denials, but it gives them an oppor-
tunity to reconsider their decisions and
make things right.
As a member of the Transportation
and Infrastructure Committee, I am
committed to working with my col-
leagues to establish clear guidelines on
how the FHWA should manage emer-
gency relief funds going forward; but
for now, I urge adoption of this amend-
ment, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I ask unanimous consent to
claim the time in opposition to this
amendment, though I am not, in fact,
opposed.
The CHAIR. Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from North
Carolina?
There was no objection.
The CHAIR. The gentleman is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I want to thank the gentleman
from California for introducing this
amendment and highlighting the issue
of the FHWA not granting extensions
when they are needed and when they
are justified.
It is important to highlight the issue,
and as chairman of the Transportation,
and Housing and Urban Development,
and Related Agencies Subcommittee, I
am aware of the issue and aware of the
delays that affect certain Federal high-
way emergency relief projects in Cali-
fornia.
Now, the amendment as drafted
would have no practical effect on the
funds to administer the program be-
cause they are not provided in this par-
ticular bill, but I look forward to work-
ing with the gentleman and coordi-
nating with the Appropriations Com-
mittee, with the authorizing com-
mittee, to address this issue in a tan-
gible way.
Madam Chair, I have no objection to
the amendment, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman from North Caro-
lina for his comments.
Madam Chair, the purpose of this
supplemental appropriations bill is to
help communities rebuild from disas-
ters, and my amendment simply en-
sures that we give communities reason-
able time to rebuild and recover.
We shouldn’t be yanking the rug out
from under them before they have got-
ten themselves back on their feet. For
that reason, I urge adoption of this
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from California (Mr. HUFFMAN).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Ms GRANGER. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from California will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MS. SCHRIER
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 7 printed in part
C of House Report 116–51.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill (before the short
title) insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds in this Act
shall be made available to implement para-
graph (3) of section 412(g) of the Agricultural
Research, Extension, and Education Reform
Act of 1998 (7 U.S.C. 7632(g)).
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 357, the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. SCHRIER) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Washington.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise today to draw
attention to an important issue that I
hope we can begin to address.
Research is at the core of our ever-
changing agriculture industry, includ-
ing in my district. Our farms rely on
research from land grant universities
like Washington State University to
build resilience in the face of a chang-
ing climate, to manage pests and dis-
eases, and to respond to drought
stresses. As the number one USDA re-
search and expenditures university in
the country, Washington State Univer-
sity’s work helps farmers in my dis-
trict expand new varieties of economic
powerhouse crops like pears, cherries,
wine grapes, apples, potatoes, and hops.
Prior to the recent farm bill signed
into law last December, the USDA
could exempt nonprofit and land grant
universities like Washington State
University from a requirement that
Specialty Crop Research Initiative
grant recipients match the Federal
Government dollar for dollar. It is real-
ly important to note that this waiver
authority for matching requirements is
available to every other ag research
program in the farm bill except spe-
cialty crop research.
During consideration of the recently
passed farm bill, a Senate-originated
provision that dropped the exemption
was included. This will have dev-
astating impacts on agriculture in my
district and around the country.
Washington is the second most agri-
culturally diverse State in the Nation,
growing everything from potatoes to
peppermint, apples to azaleas, and wine
grapes to barley and wheat. Wash-
ington State University partners with
the USDA to make the State of Wash-
ington one of the largest and most suc-
cessful agriculture enterprises in the
world.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.010 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3706 May 10, 2019
From the beginning, Washington
farmers, WSU, Washington State De-
partment of Agriculture, and the
USDA have joined forces to improve
the productivity, efficiency, and safety
of products coming from our State’s
fields and pastures.
For example, in 2018, WSU received
more than $5 million in funding to re-
search pests threatening grapes, on-
ions, garlic, and other specialty crops.
This important research, which sup-
ports our State’s diverse agricultural
economy, would be jeopardized under
the matching requirement authorized
last year.
This bipartisan amendment would
underscore congressional support for
vital public research like the work at
Washington State University. I urge
my colleagues to vote in favor of this
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition,
although I support the amendment.
The CHAIR. Without objection, the
gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I understand that this sudden re-
versal in the program was dis-
concerting for many of the universities
and researchers that have received
funding in the past and hope to do so in
the future. Based on that, I have no ob-
jection to this amendment, and I fully
support it.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. SCHRIER. Madam Chair, in sum-
mary, I would like to encourage my
colleagues to support this amendment.
It will fund research throughout the
country and end a process that is un-
fair to specialty crop farmers.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from Washington (Ms.
SCHRIER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MRS. FLETCHER
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 8 printed in part
C of House Report 116–51.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Madam Chair-
woman, I have an amendment at the
desk and I ask for its consideration.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as
follows:
Page 76, line 4, strike ‘‘90 days’’ and insert
‘‘14 days’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 357, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Mrs. FLETCHER) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Madam Chair-
woman, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chairwoman, as I stand here
this morning, my district and the en-
tire Houston region are underwater
again. A severe rainstorm swept across
the Houston area last night. Our bay-
ous, creeks, and tributaries are over
their banks. Rivers are cresting near
record levels and may surpass them be-
fore the weekend is over. Nearly 90,000
residents have gone without power, and
many are trapped by floodwaters.
Parts of our area had up to 7 inches
of rainfall within just a few hours last
night, and it is still raining. It is the
worst rainfall we have had since Hurri-
cane Harvey. And last night, I heard
from my constituents, it felt like Har-
vey and they were afraid.
As Members of this body will recall,
Hurricane Harvey hit Houston and the
Gulf Coast in August of 2017. It dumped
nearly 60 inches of rain; it claimed 68
lives; and it caused an estimate of $125
billion in damages. It was the second
most expensive hurricane in United
States history.
Members of this body responded to
Harvey’s devastation. In February of
2018, this body appropriated more than
$4 billion to Texas, through the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Community Development Block
Grant Disaster Recovery funds, explic-
itly to rebuild and mitigate against fu-
ture storms, storms like the one we are
having right now.
But nearly a year and a half after
those appropriations were made, those
funds have not arrived. Why? Because
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development has not published the
rule governing the fund’s use in the
Federal Register.
Most recently, HUD told our State
agencies that the rules were set to pub-
lish on May 1 of this year; but again,
the day has come and gone, and all we
have is silence.
This is unconscionable. It is for this
reason that I offer this amendment
today. My amendment requires the
publication of the rule governing the
2017 CDBG-DR fund’s release within 14
days.
I am joined in this amendment by my
Republican colleagues as cosponsors,
and I would like to thank Mr. GRAVES
and Mr. ROUZER for cosponsoring this
truly bipartisan amendment. I know
they have worked tirelessly on these
issues for a while, and I appreciate
their partnership on this issue.
I also thank my colleague and co-
sponsor from Houston, Congresswoman
SHEILA JACKSON LEE.
I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair-
woman, allow me to thank my very im-
portant sponsor of this amendment
and, as well, our Republican colleagues
for their leadership. We are underwater
in Houston. We are concerned about
Puerto Rico and support the under-
lying bill. If this amendment passes, we
will be able to help all of those who
have been impacted by disaster: 203,000
homes, 12,700 of which were destroyed.
Four billion dollars are important
dollars, and to have that delay really
hinders those who are suffering now.
You can imagine that we will be going
home to overflowing bayous and homes
and people who are in fear. Therefore,
this amendment, particularly in the
shortening of the time, recognizes that
disasters mean emergencies, and people
in emergencies are desperate and they
need help.
So I am delighted to support this
amendment and will join with the gen-
tlewoman as we move forward on im-
proving how FEMA responds, as well,
to these disasters and how we can work
further with the Army Corps of Engi-
neers.
This important amendment is going
to be a lifesaver for so many by short-
ening the time in which these regula-
tions will be able to be rendered, and I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding
and her leadership.
Madam Chair, I rise in strong support of the
Fletcher-Jackson Lee Amendment to, H.R.
2157, the Supplemental Appropriations Act,
2019.
The Fletcher-Jackson Lee Amendment
shortens the time requirement of the publica-
tion of rules of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development Community Development
Fund in Public Law 115–123.
Flooding is a serious problem in Houston,
today areas of the city are experiencing high
water placing residents, businesses and city
services at risk.
I am in strong support of this amendment
because of the desperate situation of those
who have lost their homes during disasters
and the unacceptable length of time victims
have had to wait for housing assistance.
Hurricane Harvey was the largest housing
disaster in our nation’s history.
Hurricane Harvey damaged 203,000 homes,
of which 12,700 were destroyed.
The nine-county Houston metro area im-
pacted by Hurricane Harvey covers 9,444
square miles, an area larger than five states,
including New Hampshire, New Jersey and
Connecticut.
Harris County covers 1,778 square miles,
enough space to fit New York City, Philadel-
phia, Boston, Chicago, Seattle, Austin and
Dallas, with room still to spare.
Hurricane Harvey dropped 21 trillion gallons
of rainfall on Texas and Louisiana, most of it
on the Houston Metroplex.
The underlying bill is a comprehensive
emergency disaster supplemental bill to help
meet the urgent needs of American commu-
nities still struggling to recover from recent
hurricanes, typhoons, wildfires, floods and
other natural disasters.
This robust disaster package includes $17.2
billion in long overdue emergency spending for
disaster-stricken communities across our na-
tion and territories.
It builds on the legislation that passed the
House in January—including an additional $3
billion to address the urgent needs of those
living in the Midwest (Nebraska, Missouri,
South Dakota, Iowa and Kansas) and South
(Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia and
the Carolinas) who have been devastated by
flooding and tornadoes in recent months.
This bill also provides some additional dis-
aster assistance to communities continuing to
recover from Hurricane Harvey.
House Democrats are standing up and tak-
ing action to help communities across the
United States and in Puerto Rico, the Northern
Mariana Islands, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Is-
lands and American Samoa recover and heal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:29 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.032 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3707
May 10, 2019
from devastating disasters—these commu-
nities should not be held hostage because of
President Trump’s personal contempt for
Puerto Rico.
Senate Republicans should come to their
senses and join Democrats in advancing this
bill and speeding relief to millions of Ameri-
cans.
Included in this legislation is critical funding
for:
Infrastructure and community development
to rebuild our transportation systems and re-
pair housing, businesses and public infrastruc-
ture;
Farmers and rural communities to bolster
the farmer safety net and restore disaster-
damaged lands;
Social services, mental health, education
and dislocated worker initiatives to invest in
the well-being of children, workers and fami-
lies in disaster-struck areas— including pro-
viding critical nutrition and Medicaid assist-
ance for Puerto Rico and U.S. territories;
DOD and Veterans Affairs to repair and re-
build hurricane-damaged bases and facilities;
and
Disaster resiliency to mitigating damage and
costs from future disasters which are becom-
ing more frequent as a result of climate
change.
American families hit by natural disasters
deserve to know that their government will
stand with them throughout the road to recov-
ery.
Democrats are committed to delivering this
assistance to our fellow Americans as they
work to rebuild their lives and their commu-
nities.
Another reason I strongly support this bill is
that H.R. 2157, the ‘‘Supplemental Appropria-
tions Act of 2019,’’ provides much needed and
long overdue relief to Americans in Puerto
Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands still suffering
from the ravages of Hurricanes Maria and
Irma, as well as relief to victims of Hurricane
Michael which struck Alabama, Florida, and
Georgia in October 2018 and to the victims of
the Midwestern floods that have caused so
much damage in Nebraska, Missouri, South
Dakota, Iowa, and Kansas.
Madam Chair, H.R. 2157, the ‘‘Supple-
mental Appropriations Act of 2019,’’ provides
much needed and long overdue relief to Amer-
icans in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Is-
lands still suffering from the ravages of Hurri-
canes Maria and Irma, as well as relief to vic-
tims of Hurricane Michael which struck Ala-
bama, Florida, and Georgia in October 2018
and to the victims of the Midwestern floods.
I support this legislation and offered an
amendment that would have provided addi-
tional funding for electricity delivery and nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Harvey, Maria, Irma, and Maria,
and Super Typhoon Yutu including technical
assistance related to electric grids.
As the representative of the Eighteenth
Congressional District of Texas, which was
ground zero for Hurricane Harvey, I regularly
hear from constituents expressing their con-
cern with ineffective and inadequate FEMA
mechanisms put in place to help rectify the
damage caused by natural disasters.
That is why I also offered an amendment to
H.R. 2157 that would prohibits funds in the bill
from being used to prevent the FEMA Admin-
istrator from monitoring the response given to
disaster victims in order to ensure quality con-
trol or becoming aware of complaints regard-
ing the response given to disaster victims and
having in place a mechanism to address such
complaints.
A third Jackson Lee amendment to H.R.
2157 would have provided a minimum of $1
million for wastewater and drinking water treat-
ment works and facilities impacted by Hurri-
canes Harvey, Irma, and Maria.
Hurricane Sandy inflicted more than $70 bil-
lion in damages in 2012, and Matthew cost
the U.S. about $10.3 billion in 2016. With Har-
vey, an estimated 13 million people were af-
fected, nearly 135,000 homes damaged or de-
stroyed in the historic flooding, and up to a
million cars were wrecked.
Hurricane Harvey ranks as the second-most
costly hurricane to hit the U.S. mainland since
1900, causing more than $125 billion in dam-
age.
Our residents need more money than for
single-family home repairs, whether it is dis-
aster recovery or general housing dollars and
I will continue to stride on behalf of the neigh-
borhoods and on behalf of hard-working
homeowners who deserve these funds, so
they can continue on with their lives and re-
turn to their homes.
Victims of natural disasters are entitled to
know who to contact when issues related to
FEMA arise and to be assured that their ques-
tions are answered, and complaints ad-
dressed.
Allocating funding for measures such as
Electricity Delivery for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Har-
vey, Maria, Irma, and Super Typhoon Yutu, is
vital to negate the effects of these catastrophic
events from significantly worsening.
Hospitals, first-responders, and a number of
other vital institutions that help our commu-
nities recover from the aftereffects of natural
disasters need access to electricity.
Moreover, with the severity of natural disas-
ters and the ranging of their locations we must
be proactive in our preparation for recovery.
Alternatively, water is the most essential re-
course known to man.
A human can go for more than three weeks
without food—Mahatma Gandhi survived 21
days of complete starvation—but water is a
different story.
At least 60 percent of the adult body is
made of it and every living cell in the body
needs it to keep functioning.
Under extreme conditions an adult can lose
1 to 1.5 liters of sweat per hour and if that lost
water is not replaced, the total volume of body
fluid can fall quickly and, most dangerously,
blood volume may drop.
We do not have the luxury of not preparing
for hurricanes, floods. earthquakes, mudslides,
tornados or other natural disasters.
With these events it is not a question of if,
but when.
For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to
support the rule and the underlying legislation.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I
claim the time in opposition, although
I am not opposed to the amendment.
The CHAIR. Without objection, the
gentlewoman from Texas is recognized
for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. MCCARTHY), the minority
leader.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Chair-
woman, I thank Congresswoman KAY
GRANGER for yielding me the time, and
I thank the gentlewoman for offering
this amendment. You will see me vote
for this amendment.
Madam Chairwoman, I rise to ask a
simple question to this body: What is
our mission? Are we here to make posi-
tive change for our fellow Americans,
to solve problems, to respond in times
of hardship, or are we here to message?
I would say, collectively, together,
the answer should be we are here to
make the change to help those in hard-
ship. These are the moments in time
when people do not ask if you are a Re-
publican or a Democrat.
When Houston was flooded, I was
down there that week touring with
Members from both sides of the aisle,
and nobody was arguing from either
side.
When Puerto Rico was hit, it was
then, as I was the majority leader and
Congressman STENY HOYER, at the
time, was the whip, now the majority
leader, that we put a codel together
with the Republicans and Democrats.
We just didn’t go to the Keys. We went
to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands
together to work to help to make sure
we rebuilt.
When California had the devastating
fire, one of the worst we have ever
seen, I flew with the President. When
we landed, we were met by the Gov-
ernor of California and the Governor-
elect. Not only did we tour together
and were of different parties, but we
talked about how to rebuild. We flew
down because California has more than
just one devastation and one fire. We
talked and we bonded on the basis of
how we would work together. That is
what America expects.
The bill that we will have on the
floor today does not meet the criteria
of both of us working together, and
that is just not right. But yesterday,
with the work of Congresswoman KAY
GRANGER and the others in the Appro-
priations Committee, we put together
one in working with the Senate Repub-
licans on Senate Appropriations and
made an offer to the Democratic side.
b 1045
I want to publicly say that to every-
one. I know we can do better, and I
know we can solve this. I made a com-
mitment to the majority leader, STENY
HOYER: let’s work together and be right
back here next week and get this
solved. This has gone on too long, too
much hardship, and we could rise to
the occasion.
The information I have gotten back
from the majority leader is that, yes,
he wants to work with us; yes, they
want to move this bill today. But I
don’t want to move a bill for the sake
of saying I moved a bill. I want to
make law and help those in need.
I have spoken to the President, and I
have spoken to the leader on the Sen-
ate side. I believe we can solve this all
by next week.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.014 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3708 May 10, 2019
So today when this vote is done, and
the messages are given, let’s not stop.
Let’s put our committee together, and
let’s work through this weekend and
the beginning of next week. I know the
very best of us will rise to this occa-
sion, and we could be right back here
not with a debate of partisanship, not
with a vote that defines pretty close to
how we are registered inside this floor,
but one united vote that will become
law that the President will seek to
sign.
We know the outcome of the bill that
we will vote on today. The President
said he is not going to sign it. People
are hurting. He wants to solve those
problems, too. We want to make sure
that even the money that we have al-
ready voted on to deliver gets delivered
to the areas that need it the most. We
want to make sure that we make the
corrections so that the fires and the
floods will not come back as severe as
they were before from any ability that
we have to do to stop that.
I will make this pledge to everyone
in this House, all partisanship aside,
let’s do this together. Let’s show
America that when it comes to a time
of need that we all put partisanship
aside and that we put people before pol-
itics.
So, yes, carry on the vote today, but
I am not going to be voting for it. I
want to you know where my heart is.
We will be back here next week. We
will make law, and we will solve this.
Just as the offer went across the aisle,
I know we can do better.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I yield
the balance of my time to the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
PRICE).
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I thank my colleague for yield-
ing.
Madam Chair, I do want to speak in
strong support of this amendment
which may well be the most important
amendment to be offered this morning.
I certainly think that with respect to
my home State of North Carolina
where thousands of residents are ea-
gerly awaiting the issuance of the Fed-
eral Register notice which this amend-
ment references.
This notice will unlock billions of
dollars, CDBG disaster mitigation
funds, to rebuild communities in North
Carolina, Texas, Florida, South Caro-
lina, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands,
Georgia, and other locations.
Now, to be clear, while the under-
lying bill addresses the damage from
Hurricane Florence which hit North
Carolina last September, this Federal
Register notice we are discussing ad-
dresses damage from Hurricane Mat-
thew and from other storms, 2016 and
2017 disasters, where we are still await-
ing relief and recovery.
Secretary Carson promised during
our subcommittee hearing last month
that the notice we are talking about
today would be released on May 1, and
as far as HUD was concerned that was
achieved. But now it is OMB, it is the
White House. They prevented this no-
tice from being released. This so-called
review appears to be a change in prac-
tice. That is not acceptable.
North Carolina residents have en-
dured two hurricanes in the past 3
years. They and other storm victims
around this country should not have to
endure more stalling and more slow-
walking from President Trump.
This amendment sends a message
that Congress is tired of the adminis-
tration’s delays and that we are serious
about helping communities in need. So
I couldn’t more strongly support this
amendment. I commend my colleague
and the bipartisan group who have of-
fered it.
Madam Chair, I urge support of the
amendment.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Madam Chair, I
thank my cosponsors and my col-
leagues for their support of this amend-
ment.
I agree. The time for action is now.
Madam Chair, for the reasons that we
have set forth, I urge all of my col-
leagues to vote in favor of this amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from Texas (Mrs. FLETCHER).
The question was taken; and the
Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, further proceedings on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from Texas (Mrs. FLETCHER)
will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MRS. AXNE
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 9 printed in part
C of House Report 116–51.
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 4, line 25, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(increased by $310,000,000)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 357, the gentlewoman from Iowa
(Mrs. AXNE) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Iowa.
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Chair, it has
been almost 2 months since severe
flooding devastated communities in
southwest Iowa and our neighbors in
Nebraska, Kansas, and Missouri. Entire
towns were under water, homes were
destroyed, and family farms were dev-
astated. Small businesses are facing ir-
reparable damage, and many local
schools may be forced to permanently
close their doors.
I have been down to the flood zones
multiple times to speak with farmers,
homeowners, and business owners who
have lost everything. Their resilience
is inspiring, but the damage is heart-
breaking.
When I helped Lizzie Young and her
family muck out her house, I saw first-
hand how desperately Iowans need that
disaster relief.
David Leuth, a farmer from Percival,
has been kayaking out to his farm field
to assess and repair his damage.
Fran Par, a Pacific Junction resident
whose home remained under water for
weeks, has been helping repair large
city water pumps to move water out of
the flooded area.
In Hamburg, Grape Community Hos-
pital, the only rural hospital in the
area, had to bring in military-operated
water tanks just to keep its doors open
to provide basic services. True to who
Iowans are, they are now providing
space to local businesses inside the
hospital so that those businesses don’t
have to leave the area. We want to
keep people in our State.
School district superintendents in
Mills and Fremont Counties are locat-
ing displaced students to provide them
with transportation and meals so they
can keep coming to school on a daily
basis.
Iowans need our help. My amendment
today increases funding for programs
that are crucial to helping Iowans and
our neighbors rebuild and recover.
My amendment will increase funding
for the Emergency Watershed Program
which is desperately needed for the
Midwest to recover. The Emergency
Watershed Program helps communities
quickly address serious damages to in-
frastructure and land and fix imminent
hazards to life and property caused by
natural disasters. From my firsthand
experiences in the flooded areas, I can
attest to the serious damage and haz-
ards that these communities face.
The USDA had to release a new esti-
mate in April for funding for the Emer-
gency Watershed Protection program
due to the Midwest floods. Instead of
the $125 million that was the prior esti-
mate, the USDA has now estimated
they will need $435 million. So my
amendment of $310 million makes sure
the USDA has enough money to help
the Midwest. Without this funding in-
crease, the USDA might not otherwise
be able to ensure Iowans and our neigh-
bors get the help that they deserve.
The Emergency Watershed Program
funding will be used to remove debris
from streams, roads, and bridges; it
will help repair eroded river and
stream banks, and it can be used to re-
pair damaged and destroyed drainage
facilities in communities like Ham-
burg. This funding can be used to re-
pair the more than 40 levees that
breached during the flooding, and those
that didn’t break suffered erosion dam-
age from overspill from those that are
still standing.
Experts believe it will take years to
repair all the damage. Iowans don’t
have that time to wait, and the Na-
tional Weather Service shows the Mid-
west will remain vulnerable to flooding
all spring and summer, and rivers are
expected to stay high.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:29 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.036 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3709
May 10, 2019
This Federal aid is vital to rebuilding
Iowa communities. The Iowa Governor
believes we sustained almost $1.6 bil-
lion in damages. Early estimates also
indicate at least $214 million in agri-
culture-specific damage, and we still
don’t know the true extent of our agri-
culture losses yet.
We can’t afford to wait. We can’t let
partisan politics stall this crucial bill,
and we must not turn our backs on our
communities when they are recovering
from devastating damages of natural
disasters. That is not who we are as
Iowans, and that is not who we are as
Americans.
I call on my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle and in the House and the
Senate to get together and work for
hardworking Americans.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition,
although I support the amendment.
The CHAIR. Without objection, the
gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Chair, until the Midwest floods struck,
the U.S. Department of Agriculture
was fairly confident that the Emer-
gency Watershed Protection Program
needs were fully met with the $125 mil-
lion that was in the bill. However, on
April 25, the USDA advised us that the
estimate had increased to $435 million
with large funding needs in Iowa and in
Nebraska, in particular. This amend-
ment would bring the bill to that level.
So I am therefore happy to support the
amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Nebraska (Mr.
FORTENBERRY), who is the ranking
member of the Subcommittee on Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and
Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies of the Appropriations Com-
mittee.
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Madam Chair, I
would like to first recognize and thank
my good friend, the chair of the Sub-
committee on Agriculture, Rural De-
velopment, Food and Drug Administra-
tion, and Related Agencies, my leader,
Mr. BISHOP from Georgia, for yielding
me time. I also want to thank my col-
league, Representative AXNE from
Iowa, for working in partnership to-
gether on this important amendment.
Madam Chair, this is tough stuff.
This was one of the most destructive
weather events in our lifetimes. It was
a perfect storm of factors that enabled
and caused the dislocation and distress
across many States and multiple com-
munities where I live.
In Nebraska and in Iowa, lands that
were soaked by autumn rains were fro-
zen solid, and then they were covered
in snow. Then this bomb cyclone hit us
with a lethal mix of blizzard, rain, and
an enormous quantity of water, ice,
and collected topsoil. It all sped down
our rivers, creeks, and reservoirs,
bursting through dams, levees, and
other structures designed to hold the
torrent back.
As I said in our previous debate, it is
pretty jarring to stand on a ridge and
look at an Air Force base one-third
under water which, again, sits at the
confluence of the Missouri and Platte
Rivers overlooking Iowa and Nebraska.
The Corps of Engineers said to me that
our levee system looks like Swiss
cheese.
Now, Madam Chair, while our Mid-
west constituents are known for their
hardiness, individuals in our commu-
nities can’t solve the problem alone
through just State or local resources.
We need a partner with the Federal
Government to repair badly damaged
watersheds so vital to our Nation’s en-
vironmental security.
The amendment adds $310 million to
the $125 million in the bill. Approxi-
mately 60 percent of the funds will go
to the damage caused in the Midwest
floods as well as communities impacted
by Hurricanes Florence, Harvey, and
Michael.
On the ground, Madam Chair, in both
of our States this program will help re-
store the scarred lands. This important
relief will repair and reshape eroded
stream banks, repair water control
structures, repair levees, and restore
conservation priorities.
Our communities are getting back on
their feet, but we need this program
quickly to address serious and long-
term damages to the infrastructure
and our land.
Madam Chair, I thank my colleagues
for their consideration.
b 1100
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. CURTIS).
Mr. CURTIS. Madam Chair, I rise
today in support of this amendment to
H.R. 2157, increasing funding for the
Emergency Watershed Protection Pro-
gram.
Last year, Utah, like many States in
the West, faced devastating wildfires
that affected areas of my district. The
Pole Creek fire and Bald Mountain fire,
which started on Federal land, collec-
tively burned over 117,000 acres and
left, damaged, infrastructure and wa-
tersheds.
Many of my communities affected by
the fires need assistance to rebuild and
repair the critical watersheds that
they rely on, but they have not been
able to receive it. For example, Utah
County has been approved for over $9
million in aid from NRCS through this
program, but inadequate funding
means they won’t receive those prom-
ised dollars.
Cleaning up and rebuilding after a
wildfire is an important step in pro-
tecting against future disasters. I am
pleased to support this amendment
that will bring aid to communities like
Utah County that have been affected
by catastrophic natural disasters.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from Iowa (Mrs. AXNE).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MRS. AXNE
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 10 printed in part
C of House Report 116–51.
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 63, line 21, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $500,000,000)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 357, the gentlewoman from Iowa
(Mrs. AXNE) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Iowa.
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Chair, my
amendment is to increase funding for
the Federal Highway Administration
Emergency Relief program.
As we have just discussed, I have
toured the flood zones in my district,
and I have experienced firsthand how
badly the floodwaters have eroded and
impacted our roads. The flooding was
so severe that as of only just this past
Wednesday of this week did our major
interstate I–29 finally fully reopen, and
this comes nearly 2 months after the
flooding began. The closing of I–29 cut
off the major north-south artery in
Iowa that connects the Omaha-Council
Bluffs area to Kansas City.
Drivers are forced to travel hours out
of their way and find smaller two-lane
roads and highways to get to where
they need to be. The resulting truck
and traffic damage on our secondary
roads is already apparent. Residents
have suffered as traffic has suddenly
doubled and tripled, and we still have
roads that aren’t open yet.
Mr. and Mrs. Patel, motel owners in
Fremont County, are dependent on I–29
being open and traffic coming through
the area to keep their business open,
and that is not going to happen with-
out functional roads. If our roads re-
main closed, children can’t get to
school, community members cannot
patron local businesses, and grand-
children can’t spend time with their
grandparents.
The Federal Highway Administration
Emergency Relief program will help
Iowa address our immediate highway
repair needs, restore traffic, and help
restore our facilities.
Safe and functional roadways are
some of the most critical infrastruc-
ture in any community, let alone one
trying to recover from a disaster, and
this type of Federal aid is vital to re-
building Iowa communities in need.
Initial estimates from our Governor
show we sustained over $1.6 billion in
damages, and that number is growing.
Programs like this one mean that Iowa
and Nebraska can focus on repairing
our local roads and ensure the Federal
Government does its part in paying for
those roads.
I call on my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle and in the House and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.038 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3710 May 10, 2019
Senate to get to work helping hard-
working Americans, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I ask unanimous consent to
claim the time in opposition, although,
in fact, I do support the amendment.
The CHAIR. Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from North
Carolina?
There was no objection.
The CHAIR. The gentleman is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, the Federal Highway Adminis-
tration’s latest estimate for the Emer-
gency Relief program identified $1.3
billion in projects in disaster-affected
areas. This bill actually contains some-
thing more than that: $1.65 billion. But
the FHWA estimates do not yet ac-
count for the damage from the Midwest
floods.
This amendment would rectify that.
It would provide the FHWA with addi-
tional resources to address the damage
from the flooding in Iowa and other af-
fected States, and then any excess
funds would remain available for future
disasters.
I thank our colleague for offering
this amendment. I think it is needed,
and I support its adoption.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Chair, I just
want to close by thanking my col-
leagues across the aisle and, in par-
ticular, Representative FORTENBERRY
and Mr. CURTIS for helping out all
these people in need, not just in our
communities in Iowa, but across the
country. I am looking forward to pass-
ing this disaster bill today so we can
get this immediate relief out to folks
across this country, including those in
my own backyard.
I am grateful for all the work that
has been done by the chair of Appro-
priations and the subcommittee chair,
SANFORD BISHOP, to help us get where
we needed to be on this. I am looking
forward to going back to Iowa and let-
ting them know we have got the fund-
ing necessary to help them repair their
lives.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from Iowa (Mrs. AXNE).
The amendment was agreed to.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CHAIR
The CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of
rule XVIII, proceedings will now re-
sume on those amendments printed in
part C of House Report 116–51 on which
further proceedings were postponed, in
the following order:
Amendment No. 1 by Mr. PERL-
MUTTER of Colorado.
Amendment No. 3 by Mr. SABLAN of
the Northern Mariana Islands.
Amendment No. 6 by Mr. HUFFMAN of
California.
Amendment No. 8 by Ms. FLETCHER
of Texas.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote after the first vote in this series.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR.
PERLMUTTER
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Colorado (Mr. PERL-
MUTTER) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 247, noes 165,
not voting 25, as follows:
[Roll No. 197]
AYES—247
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Radewagen
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sablan
Sánchez
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—165
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—25
Abraham
Bass
Bergman
Bishop (UT)
Cárdenas
Cummings
Davis, Rodney
Emmer
Eshoo
Gabbard
Hartzler
Keating
Kustoff (TN)
Marshall
Olson
Plaskett
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
San Nicolas
Sarbanes
Swalwell (CA)
Van Drew
Walker
Wenstrup
b 1134
Mr. NEWHOUSE changed his vote
from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. SABLAN
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from the Northern Mariana Is-
lands (Mr. SABLAN) on which further
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.042 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3711
May 10, 2019
proceedings were postponed and on
which the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 268, noes 143,
not voting 26, as follows:
[Roll No. 198]
AYES—268
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Axne
Bacon
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Collins (NY)
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Guthrie
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Radewagen
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rogers (AL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walberg
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Young
NOES—143
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Crawford
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Nunes
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steil
Steube
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Upton
Wagner
Walden
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—26
Abraham
Bass
Bergman
Bishop (UT)
Cárdenas
Cummings
Davis, Rodney
Emmer
Eshoo
Gabbard
Gohmert
Hartzler
Keating
Kustoff (TN)
Marshall
Olson
Pascrell
Plaskett
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
San Nicolas
Swalwell (CA)
Van Drew
Walker
Wenstrup
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CHAIR
The CHAIR (during the vote). There
is 1 minute remaining.
b 1140
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. HUFFMAN
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. HUFFMAN)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 241, noes 168,
not voting 28, as follows:
[Roll No. 199]
AYES—241
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Axne
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rogers (AL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.045 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3712 May 10, 2019
NOES—168
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bost
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—28
Abraham
Bass
Bergman
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Cárdenas
Cummings
Davis, Rodney
Doggett
Emmer
Eshoo
Gabbard
Hartzler
Keating
Kustoff (TN)
Marshall
Olson
Pascrell
Plaskett
Radewagen
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
San Nicolas
Swalwell (CA)
Van Drew
Walker
Wenstrup
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CHAIR
The CHAIR (during the vote). There
is 1 minute remaining.
b 1146
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MRS. FLETCHER
The CHAIR. The unfinished business
is the demand for a recorded vote on
the amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from Texas (Mrs. FLETCHER) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the ayes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The CHAIR. A recorded vote has been
demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The CHAIR. This will be a 2-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 393, noes 20,
not voting 24, as follows:
[Roll No. 200]
AYES—393
Adams
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Radewagen
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—20
Aderholt
Amash
Brooks (IN)
Burgess
Duffy
Gallagher
Gohmert
Gosar
Griffith
Harris
Luetkemeyer
Massie
McClintock
Norman
Roby
Rose, John W.
Roy
Schweikert
Taylor
Williams
NOT VOTING—24
Abraham
Bass
Bergman
Bishop (UT)
Cárdenas
Cummings
Davis, Rodney
Emmer
Eshoo
Gabbard
Hartzler
Keating
Kustoff (TN)
Marshall
Olson
Plaskett
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
San Nicolas
Swalwell (CA)
Van Drew
Walker
Wenstrup
b 1202
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. VEASEY).
There being no further amendments,
under the rule, the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
FINKENAUER) having assumed the chair,
Mr. VEASEY, Acting Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that that Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the bill (H.R. 2157) making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes, and, pursuant to House
Resolution 357, he reported the bill, as
amended by that resolution, back to
the House with sundry further amend-
ments adopted in the Committee of the
Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
further amendment reported from the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.019 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3713
May 10, 2019
Committee of the Whole? If not, the
Chair will put them en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
have a motion to recommit at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentlewoman opposed to the bill?
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
am in its current form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Ms. Granger moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 2157 to the Committee on Appropria-
tions with instructions to report the same
back to the House forthwith, with the fol-
lowing amendment:
Page 50, line 3, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(increased by $2,880,000,000)’’.
Mr. VISCLOSKY (during the read-
ing). Madam Speaker, I reserve a point
of order on the gentlewoman’s motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. A point
of order is reserved.
The Clerk will read.
The Clerk continued to read.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Texas is recognized for
5 minutes.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, my
motion amends the bill by adding the
additional $2.88 billion the administra-
tion has said is needed to care for the
unaccompanied children who continue
to flood our southern border.
I am offering this motion because the
bill we are considering today does not
address this need. The funding in this
motion is just one piece of what is
needed to respond to this crisis.
The children who come across our
border without a parent become the re-
sponsibility of our Federal Govern-
ment. As of the end of April, nearly
13,000 unaccompanied children were in
the care of the United States Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services.
We are told that if these trends con-
tinue, the Department will soon run
out of funds to care for these children
and face Antideficiency Act violations.
The gentleman from Texas (Mr.
HURD) offered this same amendment in
a full committee markup of the Sub-
committee on Labor, Health and
Human Services, Education, and Re-
lated Agencies’ appropriations bill just
2 days ago. At that time, the chair told
us that the amendment would not be
supported because we could not wait
for a regular appropriations bill to be
enacted.
We were told this funding was needed
now. By including the funds in this
emergency supplemental bill, we will
do just that.
We are giving our colleagues on the
other side of the aisle another oppor-
tunity today to provide the funding
necessary to continue to care for these
children. Whatever our positions may
be on border security, I think we can
all agree that we have a responsibility
to ensure that our agencies have suffi-
cient funding to do what we have asked
them to do.
I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the motion to
recommit, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, I
withdraw my reservation of a point of
order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
ervation of a point of order is with-
drawn.
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, I
rise in opposition to this motion to re-
commit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Connecticut is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, the
administration submitted a supple-
mental request last week for an addi-
tional $2.9 billion in emergency appro-
priations for the unaccompanied chil-
dren program.
We are carefully reviewing that re-
quest. We expect the administration to
provide further details about the pro-
posed use of those funds. We have had
bicameral, bipartisan meetings to get
more details on the request, and we ex-
pect that in the next several days, but
we need additional details from the ad-
ministration before we can sign off on
this request.
How many children are expected to
be referred by Customs and Border Pro-
tection over the next few months?
What kind of shelter beds are we pay-
ing for with the $2.9 billion?
Let’s be clear. There are child wel-
fare differences, and major cost dif-
ferences, among traditional beds that
are $250 a night, soft-sided dormitories,
and brick and mortar influx shelters,
which run from $750 to $1,250 per bed
per day.
Does the estimate include appro-
priate onsite mental health profes-
sionals and clinicians for facilities so
that the children have access to the
services they are legally required to
have? We know they have been wanting
in those services.
These staffing ratios are critical, as
are legal services and child advocates
for the most vulnerable children in
ORR’s care. We need to know if these
costs have been included in OMB’s esti-
mate.
I assure my colleagues, we are taking
this request seriously, but you should
not be fooled. This bill is not the right
vehicle. It is the wrong bill for the un-
accompanied children program.
This motion to recommit does not
provide funding for unaccompanied
children. It adds $2.9 million to the ac-
count for Head Start.
Madam Speaker, my friends should
have been with us on the appropria-
tions bill on Labor, Health and Human
Services, Education, and related agen-
cies just 2 days ago. They had a chance
to vote for $4.5 billion for childcare, for
child welfare. They said no. They said
no to this.
So don’t be fooled by this, keeping in
mind this is the 1-year anniversary of
their child abuse policy to separate our
kids at the border.
You want to know about unaccom-
panied kids? You could have cared for
them last year and every day since.
Vote ‘‘no’’ on the motion to recom-
mit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, I
yield to the gentlewoman from Iowa
(Mrs. AXNE).
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Speaker, passing
this disaster supplemental is vital to
any community that suffered from dis-
asters over these last 18 months. But I
rise today to talk about one commu-
nity—mine, Iowa’s Third Congressional
District.
Entire towns were underwater. Many
Iowans have had their homes, small
businesses, and family farms destroyed.
Medical centers and schools face irrep-
arable damage and may never be able
to reopen their doors again.
Parents are worried about where
they are going to be able to send their
kids to school. The lasting impacts on
the health and well-being of Iowa fami-
lies and our rural communities are be-
yond calculation.
I have been to our flood zones mul-
tiple times to speak to farmers, home-
owners, and business owners who have
lost everything. Their resilience is in-
spiring, but the damage is devastating.
And Iowans are hardworking, tax-
paying Americans.
This motion to recommit is playing
partisan politics with people’s lives,
and it is unacceptable.
I helped Lizzie Young and her family
muck out their house. David Leuth, a
farmer from Percival, has been
kayaking out to view his fields. Fran
Mierzwa from Pacific Junction had her
house underwater for almost 2 months.
Great Community Hospital in Ham-
burg, the only rural hospital in the
area, had to bring in military-operated
water tanks just to keep its doors open
for basic services. Now, because they
are standing up for their community,
they are providing space for small busi-
nesses to operate, in hopes that those
businesses don’t leave the area so that
community doesn’t die.
If this motion to recommit passes, it
will prevent this disaster funding from
moving forward.
b 1215
If this motion to recommit passes, it
will prevent disaster funding from
moving forward. A ‘‘yes’’ vote is to tell
Iowans and Americans to wait longer.
A ‘‘yes’’ vote is a slap in the face to ev-
erybody across this country who is suf-
fering from these disasters.
I am here to tell you Iowans can’t af-
ford to wait. None of our constituents
who have been impacted by floods, tor-
nadoes, or fires can afford to wait.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.051 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3714 May 10, 2019
Madam Speaker, I urge this body to
stop making Americans wait, to vote
down this motion to recommit, and to
pass this bill.
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to recom-
mit will be followed by 5-minutes votes
on passage of the bill and agreeing to
the Speaker’s approval of the Journal,
if ordered.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 189, noes 215,
not voting 27, as follows:
[Roll No. 201]
AYES—189
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bilirakis
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crow
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Hudson
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Marchant
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moulton
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Torres Small
(NM)
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—215
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gohmert
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gosar
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—27
Abraham
Bass
Bergman
Bishop (UT)
Cárdenas
Cartwright
Cummings
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Emmer
Eshoo
Gabbard
Hartzler
Huizenga
Keating
Kustoff (TN)
Marshall
Mucarsel-Powell
Olson
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Sherrill
Swalwell (CA)
Van Drew
Walker
Wenstrup
b 1220
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
Pursuant to clause 10 of rule XX, the
yeas and nays are ordered.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 257, nays
150, not voting 24, as follows:
[Roll No. 202]
YEAS—257
Adams
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Axne
Bacon
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (MO)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Roby
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Vargas
Veasey
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.054 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3715
May 10, 2019
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—150
Aderholt
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
LaHood
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Norman
Nunes
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smucker
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—24
Abraham
Bass
Bergman
Bishop (UT)
Cárdenas
Cartwright
Cummings
Davis, Rodney
Emmer
Eshoo
Gabbard
Hartzler
Huizenga
Keating
Kustoff (TN)
Marshall
Olson
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
Van Drew
Walker
Wenstrup
b 1230
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, on Friday, May 10th I was absent
from the House to attend my daughter’s col-
lege graduation. Due to my absence, I did not
record any votes for the day. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 197; ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 198; ‘‘nay’’ on
rollcall No. 199; ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 200;
‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 201; and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 202.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
the Committee on the Judiciary be dis-
charged from further consideration of
H.R. 962, the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act, and ask for its
immediate consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD). Under guidelines con-
sistently issued by successive Speak-
ers, as recorded in section 956 of the
House Rules and Manual, the Chair is
constrained not to entertain the re-
quest unless it has been cleared by the
bipartisan floor and committee leader-
ships.
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, if this unanimous consent re-
quest cannot be entertained, I urge the
Speaker and the majority leader to im-
mediately schedule the born-alive bill
so we can stand up and protect the
sanctity of human life.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
ADJOURNMENT FROM FRIDAY,
MAY 10, 2019, TO TUESDAY, MAY
14, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet on Tuesday next, when it shall
convene at noon for morning-hour de-
bate and 2 p.m. for legislative business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
f
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I rise for
the purpose of inquiring of the major-
ity leader the schedule for next week.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER), who is the
majority leader.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my friend from Louisiana, the Repub-
lican whip, for yielding.
On Monday, there will be no votes ex-
pected in the House.
On Tuesday, the House will meet at
12 p.m. for morning-hour debate and 2
p.m. for legislative business, with votes
postponed until 6:30 p.m.
On Wednesday and Thursday, the
House will meet at 10 a.m. for morning-
hour debate and 12 p.m. for legislative
business.
On Friday, the House will meet at 9
a.m. for legislative business.
We will consider several bills under
suspension of the rules. A complete list
of suspension bills will be made avail-
able by the close of business today.
The House will also consider H.R. 312,
the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe Res-
ervation Reaffirmation Act. That will
be considered under a rule.
In addition, the House will consider
H.R. 987, the Strengthening Health
Care and Lowering Prescription Drug
Costs Act. This legislation is composed
of seven bills that would protect and
expand affordable healthcare and lower
prescription drug costs. The legislation
consists of separate bills from the En-
ergy and Commerce Committee to ban
junk health plans, bring generic pre-
scription drugs to market more quick-
ly, provide funding for States to estab-
lish State-based marketplaces under
the Affordable Care Act, require and
provide funding for outreach and en-
rollment, and fund the navigator pro-
gram that assists Americans during
the open enrollment period.
All of these bills will be directed at
trying to reverse some of the steps that
have been taken to undermine Ameri-
cans’ access to affordable, quality
healthcare.
Lastly, Madam Speaker, the House
will consider H.R. 5, the Equality Act.
LGBT Americans and their families de-
serve to be protected against all forms
of discrimination no matter where they
live. This legislation would ban dis-
crimination against LGBT people in
housing, employment, education, jury
service, credit and financing, and pub-
lic accommodations.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, re-
claiming my time, I thank the major-
ity leader for going through the sched-
ule and walking through some of the
bills we are going to be taking up next
week.
As we just dealt with disaster fund-
ing, I know the gentleman is well
aware of the disagreements that have
been expressed by many on our side, as
well as the President and some Sen-
ators over there, about some of the
things that weren’t in the disaster bill,
some of the problems regarding the cri-
sis at the border, to help make sure
that we can do better at addressing
that crisis that is real and that is
growing, as well as some of the prob-
lems that were identified in the agri-
culture funding that was included in
the bill where it was identified that
there are some problems in the lan-
guage to help some of our farmers get
the actual money that they needed.
A lot of those fixes have been nego-
tiated, and those talks have gone on
for a few weeks now.
I would hope that as the bill goes
over to the Senate, the gentleman and
his side would continue to work with
our side—House, Senate, Republican,
and Democrat—to achieve a bipartisan
disaster relief bill that can ultimately
get all these problems addressed and
signed by the President.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.022 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3716 May 10, 2019
Those conversations are ongoing.
Hopefully, they will continue through
the weekend, and when the bill gets
over to the Senate, then we can try to
get all of that resolved so we can
quickly move that bill through the
process to the President’s desk.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
The good news is, we just passed a bi-
partisan bill with 34 Members from my
friend’s side voting in favor of that bill
to give very, very substantial relief and
an additional $3 billion to take care of
the storms and natural disasters that
have occurred since we passed a bill to
the Senate many, many weeks ago
that, unfortunately, was not dealt with
by the Senate, largely because there
was a reluctance to help the Americans
who happened to live in Puerto Rico to
the extent that we are helping other
people around the country as we
should.
I agree with the gentleman. We had a
bipartisan bill today. I am hopeful that
we can have a bipartisan bill moving
forward.
As my friend knows, the amendment
that was offered, the MTR that was of-
fered, was offered to an object in the
bill where there had been already a
substantial increase, with apparently
the argument being made on the floor
that that money was going to be taken
from the place to which we appro-
priated it to another area to which it
was not appropriated.
We had that somewhat, I want to say,
confrontation with the President on
doing exactly that, taking money from
MILCON and wanting to put it in a
wall.
Very frankly, there was the oppor-
tunity to do that in the subcommittee
and in the committee. In fact, as the
gentleman knows, many of his col-
leagues who serve on that committee
voted against funding the level of Head
Start that they wanted to make a $2.8
billion increase to.
That aside, I will tell the gentleman
that, clearly, we want to make sure
that we handle people at the border in
a humanitarian way that is consistent
with the American way.
It is ironic, I will tell my friend, as
you heard in the debate, that today is
the 1-year anniversary when we started
a policy of taking children from their
parents at the border, separating them.
Some of those children to this day have
not been reunited with their parents.
We are very concerned about that.
One of the things that I know the
gentleman knows is that when we
opened government—the government
was shut down when we took over—we
included a little over $500 million for
humanitarian expenditures for people
at the border so we could treat them
fairly. I think, frankly, that money has
not all been spent at this point in time.
We do know there is a challenge for
us at the border, with the numbers of
people who are seeking asylum and
seeking refuge. We are certainly, as the
gentleman suggested, going to work on
trying to respond to that in a bipar-
tisan, effective way.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, re-
claiming my time, first, to address the
comment that was made about reluc-
tance on Puerto Rico, it is kind of hard
to suggest there is reluctance to help
Puerto Rico when we have appro-
priated more than $90 billion already
and want to continue to make sure
that Puerto Rico has the relief that
they need. Again, over $90 billion of
money from the United States Govern-
ment has already been appropriated.
We have other issues that we need to
address, including some problems with
the money in the bill that was sup-
posed to go to farmers. It has been
identified that a lot of that money
can’t get to the farmers who need it.
Many American farms that are going
under can’t get the help they need.
Those problems were identified, and we
would like to get that fixed.
There were other issues, such as the
President’s supplemental. The supple-
mental was $4.5 billion of additional
money that is needed to help with this
crisis at the border.
I know some on the other side are in
denial about the crisis, but it is real.
We have had in recent weeks days in
which on one day, a single day, more
than 4,000 illegal crossings occurred
multiple times.
Secretary Jeh Johnson under Presi-
dent Obama said that when he would
get that report every day—it was the
first report he would get as Secretary
of Homeland Security—of how many
people crossed illegally the day before,
if more than 1,000 crossed illegally, it
was a bad day.
Today, we are seeing experiences
through Homeland Security where
more than 4,000 people cross our border
illegally per day. That is a crisis that
has to be dealt with.
It is why the President sent a supple-
mental funding request, and we would
like to see that included in this bill.
We tried to start addressing that prob-
lem.
I know maybe there is an inability on
the other side to look into this prop-
erly because there is so much fixation
with collusion, Russia, and denial
about the Mueller report that showed
there was no collusion.
We just saw the Judiciary Committee
come out with a contempt finding. I
don’t know if the gentleman is plan-
ning any floor time to bring contempt
to the floor, the bill that just came out
of the Judiciary Committee, but it
would be unprecedented—probably the
first time in American history—that
somebody was found in contempt of
Congress for not complying with the
law, for not breaking the law.
b 1245
The Judiciary Committee was, lit-
erally, asking the Attorney General to
break the law; otherwise, they would
find him in contempt. Unprecedented,
probably, in our country’s history.
This is, by the way, the committee
that has jurisdiction over the border
and the laws relating to our Nation’s
immigration laws.
So, while we have got a crisis at the
border, you would think the committee
of jurisdiction would be focusing on
helping to solve the problem and bring-
ing bills to the floor to solve the crisis
at the border, instead of all of the
things that they continue to do to try
to harass the administration and
maybe move towards impeachment, to
which they have alluded, as opposed to
solving the real problems that this
country is facing.
So, I would hope that the focus would
shift to solving this serious problem
and to giving it the attention it de-
serves and looking at the President’s
request on the supplemental to fix this
crisis at the border, so we can finally
get control over it and help all those
millions of people who are trying to
come to America the right way.
The great part of our immigration
law: We let in over a million people a
year—the most generous nation in the
world. Yet, we have got a crisis where,
on some days, thousands of people per
day are trying to cross illegally and
are crossing illegally.
I would hope we can come together
and agree that we have got to solve
this problem, and that is what the sup-
plemental request starts to address. It
surely doesn’t address it entirely. And
we have had that debate over the last
few months, and we will continue that.
Hopefully, we can resolve that, too.
But, in the meantime, I would like to
see us address that problem.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
He had a lot of facts and assertions in
his comments. First of all, let me cor-
rect: He adopted the President’s num-
ber. The President’s number was
wrong. It bore no relationship to re-
ality. He picked it out of the air. Nu-
merous fact-checkers have indicated
that.
The facts are that $42 billion has, in
fact, been allocated, $20.3 obligated,
and $12.7 outlaid. So, clearly, there are
funds that have been allocated, but not
the $90 billion to which the gentleman
referred.
Having said that, obviously, what
held it up in the Senate was the argu-
ment over Puerto Rico. I mean, that is
why we have been put to the process of
passing another bill.
The good news in that delay is, we
did take care of the Midwest. We put $3
billion in there for disasters that oc-
curred subsequent to the first emer-
gency disaster relief bill that we
passed. And, as I said, we included $500
million when we opened up the govern-
ment for humanitarian relief.
We included another half a billion
dollars for judges because there are, as
the gentleman knows, legitimate seek-
ers of asylum who are fearful of their
own lives, the lives of their families
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.060 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3717
May 10, 2019
are in danger, and they are coming
here.
The gentleman well knows there are
some people in the White House who
want to see the numbers of immigrants
to America almost eliminated, so that
there is some discussion and disagree-
ment in the White House. I don’t know
exactly where the President stands on
that, but he certainly has been hostile
to immigration.
So, I take the gentleman at his be-
lief, but we have not necessarily seen
that from the White House.
Having said that, we will work—be-
cause we believe, as he does, that peo-
ple who come to the United States need
to be treated, for whatever reason they
come to the United States, in a way
consistent with our American values,
in a humanitarian way.
And it is—I will repeat—ironic that
we are debating this issue on the year’s
anniversary of children being taken
from the arms of their mothers and fa-
thers and sent hundreds of miles and,
in some cases, thousands of miles
away, and still have some of them who
have not been reunited with their par-
ents.
I am glad that there is concern about
humanitarian treatment now. That is
appropriate. I share the gentleman’s
view on that. Hopefully, we can reach
bipartisan agreement in the very near
term.
As the gentleman knows, the Presi-
dent’s request was just sent down last
week. As the gentleman further knows,
we have appropriated money to certain
objects. And we had a confrontation on
that, and both the House and the Sen-
ate thought the President was taking
money and applying it to an object
which we had not authorized.
Then the Congress stood up for itself,
in a bipartisan way, in the Senate and
in the House.
Unfortunately, the President vetoed
that bill, and he is spending money
that was not authorized by the Con-
gress of the United States.
We are having a number of challenges
to the underpinning of our democratic
system and the authority of the Con-
gress of the United States versus the
exercise of authoritarian power by the
President of the United States, and I
would hope the gentleman would share
that view.
But, having said all that, we clearly
want to get to the same objective, and
I am sure the Senate—and I know, as I
have just talked to Mrs. LOWEY—they
are going to review the request, as Ms.
DELAURO said on the floor, see what
the money is going to be spent for,
make sure that it is, in fact, going to
be spent for humanitarian relief at the
border.
We are very concerned about that
and, I think, rightfully so. That is what
it is projected to be, and we want to
make sure that that is what it is.
So, we will proceed, hopefully, in a
bipartisan way and, hopefully, with rel-
ative speed.
But I hope the Senate, Madam
Speaker, will take up this relief bill
and pass it forthwith so that the folks
who have been so damaged by natural
disasters will get some relief and will
understand that their Federal Govern-
ment cares about them and is going to
give them the relief they need.
I hope that we can move that as
quickly as possible.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, let’s
be clear. On the problems with our im-
migration laws, the gentleman men-
tioned asylum. We all know right now,
somebody comes across the border on a
daily basis—in the thousands on some
days. And they come across and claim
asylum, coming through illegal parts
of our border, not the ports of entry.
The President has made it clear: If
you are seeking asylum, there is a
legal way to do it. Come through a port
of entry and properly seek asylum.
Many people know there are coyotes,
people who make money human traf-
ficking people across the border, and
they read from a script. They all know
the script. Whether they are seeking
asylum or not, they just read the
script, and they are let in.
We see it all the time, and they know
the game. It is a game, because it is a
loophole in the law that we have tried
to fix and haven’t gotten any help from
the other side.
But they know that if they read the
script and they know—ironically, they
have come through multiple countries
that have offered them asylum, and
they have turned down that asylum.
So that is not the right way to do it.
The President said: Come the right
way. Nobody said—you have never seen
the President say get rid of immigra-
tion laws. He said fix the immigration
laws, secure the border, have a legal
way to come here, and get rid of things
like the visa lottery system and turn it
into a merit-based system to make this
law work better for the people who
want to come here and seek the Amer-
ican Dream.
And I know we have beaten this to
death, and we will continue to debate
it. Hopefully, we get some real con-
versations over the weekend to solve
these other problems in the disaster
bill that aren’t included and clear up
the number.
We have seen a number of $90 billion
plus that has been appropriated to
Puerto Rico. Regardless, clearly, it is
well over 50, probably closer to 90. We
will continue to talk about that as well
and address this problem.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
CELEBRATING MIAMI’S
COMMUNITY NEWSPAPERS
(Ms. SHALALA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today during Small Business Week
to celebrate one of the longest-thriving
small businesses in Florida’s 27th Con-
gressional District.
In publication for 61 years, Miami’s
Community Newspapers is a family-run
business founded by Ronald Miller in
1958. Today, brothers Grant and Mi-
chael Miller have grown the business to
include 14 editions covering Miami-
Dade County.
Miami’s Community Newspapers cov-
ers the local issues that are the fabric
of our neighborhoods.
Recognizing the accomplishments of
high school students and centennial
birthdays, Miami’s Community News-
papers is hyper local; however, they do
not shy away from discussing impor-
tant issues like transportation and
education.
The Miller brothers host breakfast
socials and a luncheon series that has
featured everyone from the county
transportation director to David
Beckham.
Unknown to most is that the Millers
have, for years, given jobs to numerous
people attempting to reenter society
after incarceration.
With a distribution of 65,000, their
newspapers can be found in every diner
and lobby in Miami-Dade. Today, we
honor Grant and Michael Miller and
the 30 employees of Miami’s Commu-
nity Newspapers as a great small busi-
ness.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JAY
PRICE
(Mr. COMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to remember the life of my friend
Mr. Jay Price of Casey County in the
First Congressional District of Ken-
tucky.
After graduating from Western Ken-
tucky University as an ag major, Jay
returned home to manage his family’s
beef cattle farm and teach agriculture
at Casey County High School. Jay de-
voted his career to educating nearly
three decades of young farmers. His
students will not only remember the
skills they learned but the life lessons
and guidance he provided at every op-
portunity.
As an FFA adviser, teacher, and men-
tor, his support in and out of the class-
room had an outsized influence on
thousands of young adults. By con-
necting them with industry and State
leaders, he ensured they were well pre-
pared to pursue remarkable edu-
cational and career opportunities.
Jay also dedicated his time to ad-
vancing the prosperity of his fellow
farmers through his leadership in local
and State organizations. His peers rec-
ognized his profound influence on Ken-
tucky agriculture and inducted him as
a member of the Kentucky Cattlemen’s
Association Hall of Fame, along with
many other accolades throughout his
life.
His passion for the agriculture indus-
try and his students is rivaled only by
his love for his family: his wife, Carol;
his daughters, Lauren and Lindsay;
their husbands, Brian and Jon; and his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.061 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3718 May 10, 2019
grandchildren Clay, Avery, and Hud-
son.
I join with his entire family—includ-
ing his mother, siblings, and a host of
friends who he considered family—in
celebrating and remembering his life-
time of service to others.
f
TIME FOR THE SENATE TO ACT
ON HOUSE-PASSED BILLS
(Mr. ROUDA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today because I am frustrated. I came
to Washington, D.C., because I was
tired of politics as usual. That is why
the voters of Orange County sent me
here. I also came here to honor my con-
stitutional obligation and the oath of
office I took.
Yet, today, we see a President and an
administration that continues to sabo-
tage the efforts of Members of Congress
to do their job, while painting a false
narrative that all we want to do is in-
vestigate, investigate, and investigate.
And that is not the case.
This House, the House of the people,
has passed 115 measures, 115 bills, the
overwhelming majority of them bipar-
tisan. Yet, only 12 have gone to the
floor of the Senate to be voted on. That
is right—only 12.
It is time for the Republican leader-
ship in the Senate and for MITCH
MCCONNELL to start allowing these
bills that have passed the House of
Representatives with bipartisan sup-
port, that address disaster relief across
our great country, to finally be voted
on to help working families and Ameri-
cans across our great country.
f
NATIONAL NURSES WEEK
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today during
National Nurses Week to celebrate
America’s hardworking and profes-
sional caregivers, our nurses.
National Nurses Week is celebrated
annually from May 6 through May 12,
the birthday of Florence Nightingale,
the founder of modern nursing.
Men and women who enter the nurs-
ing profession care for bodies and
minds and educate and empower pa-
tients.
This rewarding profession allows
nurses to deeply impact their patients’
lives. Often, nurses help those facing
serious health challenges.
Nursing is a science; it is an art; and
it is a profession for the most giving,
caring, and compassionate individuals.
Nurses help patients and their fami-
lies enter new stages of life. From the
birth of a child to the challenge of an
aging parent, nurses are there, pro-
viding expertise and encouragement,
delivering care and compassion, and
working to deliver positive outcomes.
Madam Speaker, some nurses travel
the globe caring for others. Others are
the well-known caregivers in their
small communities.
Wherever they practice, I say thank
you to our nurses for caring so deeply
for all of us.
f
b 1300
CELEBRATING ACADEMIC MAGNET
HIGH SCHOOL
(Mr. CUNNINGHAM asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate Academic
Magnet High School in North Charles-
ton, which was just ranked the number
one high school in the country by U.S.
News & World Report.
Academic Magnet students embody
hard work and determination in the
classroom, along with the passionate
teachers and administrators who work
tirelessly to help students achieve
their goals and dreams. Scholarship,
honor, and character are the principles
that guide students and faculty at Aca-
demic.
Academic Magnet has a graduation
rate of 100 percent, a college readiness
score of 100, and is nationally ranked
as one of the top STEM high schools in
the country. This educational achieve-
ment should not go unrecognized.
I know, personally, the quality of
students that they produce by the leg-
islative assistant we have, Paniz
Rezaeerod, and I am honored to recog-
nize them today. I am proud of this in-
stitution for representing Lowcountry
excellence in South Carolina’s school
system.
f
HONORING OFFICER JORDAN
HARRIS SHELDON
(Mr. BUDD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BUDD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of Officer Jor-
dan Harris Sheldon. He was killed in
the line of duty during a routine traffic
stop recently. Mr. Sheldon honorably
served the Mooresville Police Depart-
ment for 6 years as a K–9 officer.
I know that the Mooresville Police
Department and the community are
heartbroken by this news, as am I. Our
men and women in blue put on the uni-
form every day not knowing what their
fate could be, yet they continue to
serve their communities without ques-
tion.
Madam Speaker, I consider myself
extremely fortunate to be able to rep-
resent a place like Mooresville in the
U.S. Congress, and I know that I speak
for the good folks of Mooresville when
I say that Officer Sheldon will not be
forgotten.
I ask Members to join me in praying
for Officer Sheldon’s family, the
Mooresville Police Department, and
the community during this difficult
time.
f
SEPARATING IMMIGRANT CHIL-
DREN FROM THEIR FAMILIES IS
A VIOLATION OF BASIC HUMAN
RIGHTS
(Mr. ESPAILLAT asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Speaker,
just 1 year ago, we learned of the
Trump administration’s cruel separa-
tion family policy.
Separating immigrant children from
their family is a violation of basic
human rights and a betrayal of our val-
ues as a nation.
In the wake of this terrible policy,
my colleagues and I went to work and
spoke out because, Madam Speaker, we
are a nation of immigrants. I intro-
duced the REUNITE Act, which would
require the immediate reunification of
children with their families.
When we learned separated children
were being held in a facility in my dis-
trict, we worked to reunite them with
their parents because we are a nation
of immigrants. My office reunited four
families, one of which I brought to the
Capitol as my guest at the State of the
Union to show the President that the
people he tried to damage through this
terrible policy are stronger than he
thinks.
Today, the other side of the aisle pre-
sented a false motion to recommit. We
voted it down because we are, Madam
Speaker, a nation of immigrants.
This administration must own up to
its failure, and my colleagues and I will
continue to work to make sure this
never happens again.
f
RECOGNIZING BERKS COUNTY
MARCH FOR LIFE
(Mr. MEUSER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of the ninth an-
nual Berks County March for Life,
which I attended this past weekend. I
was proud to join over 250 participants,
and I would like to thank Helen
MacMinn for organizing the event and
Donna Lea Merritt for inviting me.
Madam Speaker, I am proudly pro-
life and believe in the sanctity of inno-
cent, unborn human life. I was deeply
troubled to see a Democratic Pennsyl-
vania State representative openly be-
rate, verbally attack, threaten and, in
fact, terrify peaceful advocates of the
unborn.
This behavior is reprehensible for
anyone, but particularly appalling
from an elected official. This type of
hostile discourse should be repudiated
by all, Democrats and Republicans.
The Berks March for Life event was a
wonderful reminder of the unity and
kind spirit found among the pro-life
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.062 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3719
May 10, 2019
community in Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District. I commend Pro-
Life Berks for their dedication.
f
HONORING THOSE WHO STRUGGLE
WITH MENTAL ILLNESS
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in honor of every American who
has ever struggled with mental illness.
With May being National Mental
Health Awareness Month as well as Na-
tional Nurses Month, we recommit our-
selves to:
Building better futures for those
struggling with a mental health condi-
tion;
Supporting research into diagnoses
and treatment;
Erasing the stigma around seeking
help; and
Removing barriers to high-quality
and timely mental healthcare by edu-
cating and training doctors, nurses,
and behavioral specialists dedicated to
these disabling conditions.
Our Nation is also battling an epi-
demic of veteran suicide. Tragically,
over 7,000 veterans die by suicide every
year, more than the total number of
American servicemembers killed in ac-
tion during the entire Global War on
Terrorism.
It is no coincidence that our Nation
is short 100,000 neuropsychiatrists and
500,000 advance practice nurses in these
fields. At the VA alone, today, there
are nearly 50,000 medical vacancies.
If we are to make progress, then our
country, our Nation, must support in-
vestments in educating these physi-
cians and nurses to treat those who,
every day, look for a better way of life.
I look forward to partnering with
Members of Congress to help America
treat these illnesses and create a more
humane society for all.
f
REPUBLICANS HAVE NO PLAN TO
IMPROVE HEALTH CARE
(Mr. CASTEN of Illinois asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R.
986, the Protecting Americans with
Preexisting Conditions Act.
I was proud to vote in favor of H.R.
986 yesterday to rescind the Trump ad-
ministration’s dangerous effort to
weaken lifesaving protections for peo-
ple with preexisting conditions under
the Affordable Care Act.
The Trump administration has been
obsessed and relentless about undoing
the historic and meaningful gains made
under the ACA. Here, that means un-
dermining the stability of the
healthcare market and allowing States
to promote junk, so-called short-term,
limited-duration insurance options
that directly discriminate against peo-
ple with preexisting conditions.
Let us not forget that before the
ACA, a woman’s gender was, in effect,
a preexisting condition. One-third of
women who tried to buy health plans
on their own were either turned down
or charged a higher premium.
Republicans have no plan to improve
healthcare, only to roll back the
progress made in the ACA, putting the
health coverage of the 52 million Amer-
icans with preexisting conditions in
jeopardy.
I am proud of the progress that this
House has made to protect Americans’
health coverage, and I look forward to
continuing action to expand access and
lower healthcare costs.
f
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
REFUSES RULE
(Ms. SCHAKOWSKY asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to condemn the Trump ad-
ministration’s dangerous final rule
that allows healthcare workers to dis-
criminate against patients based on
their personal beliefs.
Too often, healthcare in this country
is riddled with inequality, and while
Democrats in the House are working to
address this, the administration is try-
ing to make it worse.
This policy will be most harmful to
our sisters of color who often live in
areas with hospitals that may refuse
comprehensive reproductive
healthcare, including abortion and
birth control.
Refusals have already threatened the
life of women with pregnancy com-
plications. This rule could make the
maternal mortality crisis among Afri-
can American women even worse.
This is yet another attempt by the
Trump administration to impose their
beliefs and take away our healthcare
and our rights, and I will continue to
fight to ensure that healthcare is equal
for all Americans.
Dr. Lawren, from my home state of Illinois,
wrote to the Trump Administration in response
to this rule.
She said, ‘‘As a physician, it is absolutely
crucial that I provide the same level of care for
every patient no matter how my own beliefs
differ from theirs. I often have patients with
whom I disagree about a wide spectrum of po-
litical and social causes. It would be so out-
rageously inappropriate for me to use that as
grounds to change my medical care or to alter
the level of respect and compassion I show for
these patients.’’
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ). Under the Speaker’s
announced policy of January 3, 2019,
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GOH-
MERT) is recognized for 60 minutes as
the designee of the minority leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, we
have heard a great deal today—actu-
ally, from both sides of the aisle point-
ing fingers across the way at the oppos-
ing party—about the issue of children:
taking care of children that are
brought here illegally, taking care of
children that supposedly come here on
their own.
But since we know that nobody
crosses from Mexico into the United
States illegally without having the
permission of the drug cartel that con-
trols that section of the Mexico-U.S.
border, it is not really accurate to say
a child comes unaccompanied, because
a child can’t cross Mexico by himself.
A child is brought by somebody.
Unfortunately, as we know, the fig-
ures from both government groups,
Doctors Without Borders, and others
are pretty staggering when you realize
that such a large percentage—25 per-
cent, 30 percent—of girls who come to
the United States through Mexico are
raped.
I have seen too many rape trees that
it breaks my heart. It is just, as the
poet said, incredible, the inhumanity
to man. It is staggering.
And sometimes it is difficult to tell
people no that want to come here, but
there is not a country in the world that
lets more people into that country
than the United States does. There is
nowhere.
Countries that are much bigger geo-
graphically, countries that have many
more people, countries that have more
space per person, there is no country
that is as generous with the right being
given to come in to a country legally
as the United States, and I love that
about our country.
But it is important to have rules
about who gets to come in. Obviously,
some have projected that there may be
1 billion, 1.5 billion people who would
like to come to the United States. If
the 300, 350 million or so people here
were to have a billion people come in,
obviously, this country would cease to
exist as it has or is or could be. It
would cease to exist. It would become a
Third World country. There would be
so much massive unemployment over-
whelming the social services. Disease
would become rampant.
As we see people coming here from
other countries, there are diseases that
we had completely eliminated in the
United States that are now being re-
introduced to the United States be-
cause we have not enforced our borders
and made sure that people coming in,
as welcome as they are to come in le-
gally, that they are not coming in with
a disease that puts people in the United
States in jeopardy. Once you do that,
then you don’t continue to be that
light on the hill that so many want to
come to. There is no place left.
Last year, there were some people
here who said: Well, you know, if we
keep losing more and more of our free-
dom here in the United States, maybe
we just can all go to Australia.
I had a few guys that I met with from
Australia. I thought they would find
that amusing. But they didn’t smile;
they didn’t laugh. They said: Do you
not understand? If you lose your free-
dom here in America, China will take
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.065 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3720 May 10, 2019
us over in a heartbeat. There will be no
place you are going to be able to go.
The United States of America is the
place that gives everyone else in the
world hope for freedom.
b 1315
I ran into the same thing in Nigeria,
people imploring, in fact, some West
Africans who were Christians wanted
to meet with me before I left. The old-
est gentleman said: You know, we
wanted to make sure, before you went
back to Washington, you understood
we were all so thrilled when you elect-
ed your first Black President.
They said: But since President
Obama has been the leader in the
United States, we have seen America
get weaker and weaker. And you have
got to make sure people in Washington
understand, when America gets weak-
er, we suffer.
Ebenezer was his name. He said: You
know, we know where we are going
when we die. We are Christians. We are
believers. But our only chance of hav-
ing some degree of safety in this life is
if America is strong.
Unfortunately, as I heard from people
there, as I have read since, the Obama
administration was putting require-
ments: Look, we will give you more
help in neutralizing Boko Haram, but
you are going to have to legalize abor-
tion, start paying for those, and you
have got to legalize same-sex marriage,
and then we will give you some serious
help with Boko Haram.
In the meantime, the American ad-
ministration had a hashtag,
#bringbackourgirls. It didn’t really do
much. Actually, it didn’t do anything,
really. The hashtag went around and
around, but thank God for people who
stepped up like our government did not
and actually helped girls, and some
continue to be helped. I won’t talk
about where they are, how well they
are doing.
But it is just really tragic when the
United States Government that so
many people around the world look to
for hope, look to as an example of what
perhaps their country could be some-
day, start losing hope when they see
what happens here. It is tragic.
I know some say, and we have seen
this over the years, whether it is Dr.
Spock’s book on how to raise children,
don’t ever say no. Gee, you might hurt
their pride or enthusiasm. Don’t ever
punish, just encourage.
But the fact is that the reason we
have laws that don’t allow children to
enter into binding contracts is because
we understand that children can be too
easily persuaded. That is why crimi-
nals are able to dangle candy or in
some way entice children into situa-
tions wherein their lives are destroyed.
There is a time to say no out of love
and caring.
I don’t know anybody on either side
of the aisle here, either party, who
wants to see children harmed, but the
fact is, as the border patrolmen tell me
constantly both when I am down there
all night or when I am up here and hear
from them: When you guys make it
sound like anybody is welcome, espe-
cially if they have a child in their
group, well, we have more children now
coming, often to their own detriment,
than we have ever had in our history.
So I understand the feeling, gee, let’s
don’t say no to any child who wants to
come into America accompanied, unac-
companied. We extend our arms.
But what happens? We know every
time caravans, groups are coming in,
big, small, people die trying to get in.
The drug cartels are so corrupt, they
will utilize children. They have no
problem taking young girls and using
them in sex trafficking.
And by our leaving that open, I hear
it all the time from people who work
the border: You guys lure them up here
to their own harm. If you would just
secure the border, these folks will quit
coming, and you won’t have thousands
of girls being raped. You won’t have
people being sold into sex slavery.
And I say ‘‘sold,’’ but it sounds more
like, from the stories we get down
there that what happens, and it is not
on the list of questions a border patrol-
man asks as they are in-processing peo-
ple, but sometimes it is asked: How
much did you have to pay? And some-
times they will add: to the gang or the
drug cartel to get you in here illegally?
The answer normally is 5, 6, 7, $8,000.
And again, the question is not on
their list to ask, but sometimes they
ask: How did you get that money? You
don’t have that kind of money. Where
would you come up with that kind of
money?
So often, the answer is: We got a
thousand here. We had a thousand sent,
$1,500 sent from people in the United
States, and they are going to let us
work the rest off when we get where we
are going.
So, so many are not sold into slav-
ery. They just agree, without realizing,
they are about to become an inden-
tured servant to a drug cartel, and they
are going to be a servant either in sex
trafficking or drug trafficking.
So often I have stood there and
watched people waiting to be proc-
essed, and they will have an address in
a city in the U.S. And I have seen
them, different times, exchange, and
they would switch cities, and then they
would tell the border patrolman: Here
is the city where I have relatives,
where I can go and be taken care of.
And it is where the drug cartels told
them to go. So, technically, they are
not sold into slavery, but they have
agreed to be indentured servants to the
drug cartels.
So it is amazing how many people
seem shocked when they read story
after story about how the drug cartels
in Mexico have big operations in cities
all over America. That is why the bor-
der patrolmen say: You know what the
drug cartels call us? They call us their
logistics.
Like the commercial?
Well, yeah. Like the commercial.
They get them across the border, and
then the U.S. Government ships these
people wherever the drug cartels want
them to go.
Right now, they are so overwhelmed
on our border, it is just tragic.
I know there are Christian groups
that receive millions of dollars for
going down and helping get people in
and taking care of them. And it sure
makes it appear like they are scared of
losing the millions of dollars they get
for assisting illegal aliens, but we need
to be realistic.
When you are in a country that is
self-governing, where you have an obli-
gation as part of the government, if
you are a citizen serving on juries, that
makes you a judge of the facts of a
case, or running for office, or voting,
you vote because you are supposed to
be the one who hires the servants who
come to work in the county seat, the
State capitol, the Federal Capitol.
But the people are supposed to be the
real rulers, and those of us elected are
supposed to be the servants. But there
is an obligation that goes with the
freedoms, and that obligation means
you have got to enforce the law across
the board.
Some people quote Scripture, saying,
we have got to be good to the for-
eigners—true; we have got to help the
widows and orphans—true; we ought to
be encouraging and embracing of fami-
lies—true.
But when you are acting as the gov-
ernment, you have a different role, and
that is a role to ensure that the law is
enforced evenly and fairly across the
board without regard to someone’s fi-
nancial situation, social status, or any-
thing else.
That is why there are verses in the
Bible that say something to pray for is
people who will not show favoritism to
the rich and, also, verses say, not show
favoritism to the poor. You treat ev-
eryone fairly across the board.
I sure got a lot of hateful things
when I was a judge, and I revoked the
probation of a daughter of one of the
wealthy oil families in my hometown.
They even had many of my supporters
in the courtroom, thinking that would
intimidate me from doing what I would
have done to anyone else.
But as a judge, that is the job. You
don’t show favoritism to people be-
cause of their wealth or because of
their lack of it. You enforce the laws
fairly across the board.
Just as it would be crazy for a parent
to welcome a child who can’t swim to
come jump in the pool, you say: No.
No. That is dangerous. No, don’t touch
the hot stove. No, don’t stick anything
into the electric socket.
There is a time to say no. But some
think that being loving and caring
means never to say no. There is a time
to say no.
If we enforce our borders and do so
fairly and are fair about the over a mil-
lion visas that we give out in this
country—again, the most generous of
any country in the world—just do so
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.067 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3721
May 10, 2019
fairly, then you don’t have people
forced into sex trafficking, forced into
drug trafficking.
You know, the best, most compas-
sionate thing we could say or do to
help people in Mexico would be to to-
tally secure the border so only people
come in who are legally coming in and
to shut down the money that the drug
cartels are making off the drug traf-
ficking and the sex trafficking because,
according to some estimates, before
they started getting so much money
from human trafficking, they esti-
mated $80 billion, one source, $80 bil-
lion or so from drug trafficking.
And what an incredible business
model. They are making all this money
off drugs, but they don’t have to hire
employees, because the employees
come to them and pay them a fee to
help them get to a place where they
can sell the drugs for them at no
charge to the drug cartels.
And don’t think the drug cartels
don’t know how to say no and take
lives. They know how to cut heads off
and put them on pikes to intimidate
people, to keep them in line.
There is nothing more difficult in
Mexico than being a law enforcement
officer who is dedicated to truly en-
forcing the law fairly, including
against people in the drug cartels.
Their lives are at great risk, as are
their families’. But if we secure the
border, build a wall where we need it,
secure the border, then the money
dries up to pay for corruption in Mex-
ico.
Mexico, you think about Mexico.
They ought to be a top ten economy.
They have incredible natural resources.
They have got a better location than
North America. They are between
North and South America. They are be-
tween the two oceans. They ought to be
the greatest trader: all the natural re-
sources, and, of course, they have got
some of the hardest working people in
the world.
Why are they not a top ten economy?
Because of corruption.
How is corruption funded? From
money coming across our border ille-
gally for drugs that come in illegally
or sex trafficking coming in.
What an incredible gift to the people
of Mexico, so many of whom dream of
a day when they could have an incred-
ibly vibrant economy and they didn’t
have to worry about corrupt police or
corrupt government officials.
That is why I know, when you hear
some Mexican elected official say they
don’t want the border secured, then
you can pretty well take it to the bank
they are taking money to the bank
from the drug cartels; otherwise, they
would want to see Mexico reach its po-
tential that cannot be reached as long
as we are allowing tens of billions of
dollars to flow from the United States
to the drug cartels for the corruption
of government and harm to people.
b 1330
Now, there used to be an unwritten
rule, as I understood it, that the drug
cartels would not kill anybody, rob,
they would not let crime go on around
Mexico’s resorts. But that has cer-
tainly gone to the wayside.
My wife and I went on our honey-
moon in Mexico. We celebrated our
25th anniversary in Mexico. But, as a
government official, going to Mexico,
with people and cartels knowing who I
am, it is a dangerous place to go now,
so we haven’t been back in a long time.
I look forward to the day when we can,
and that day will be when we secure
our border and Mexico achieves the
status in the world’s economies that it
should because of what is there and the
people. That would be a gift we should
give them. But in the meantime, we
make clear that we are securing our
border, you are not coming in unless
you come in through a port of entry, a
legal port of entry, and you come in le-
gally, you are not coming in.
Now we hear the stories, we read the
stories and get the accounts, children
are now a commodity. The drug cartels
know that if somebody comes in with a
child, with them or with their group,
oh, gee, this is a big family. We saw all
of the wild screaming and gnashing of
teeth over children not being with par-
ents. So they know they are not going
to be separated and they are going to
be able to stay in the country. So they
are coming. They are coming in greater
numbers than ever before.
If you look back at some of the num-
bers from the nineties, it was 80 per-
cent, as I recall. And somebody was
just referring to the numbers recently,
about 80 percent were single adults
from Mexico, men, who were coming
for jobs. And now, because of the dram-
atization over what happens every day,
in every county in the country, and
that is an adult who has committed a
crime or is arrested for committing a
crime, being separated from a child. It
happens every day.
I used to sign warrants to arrest peo-
ple, and they certainly didn’t bring the
children to the jail with them. They
were separated from their children. It
is what happens when a government is
trying to be fair and not make the chil-
dren suffer or be punished for the sins
of the parent. That is what a caring so-
ciety would do. You don’t punish the
children for the wrongs of the parent.
But now, children are a commodity.
They are being rented, purchased, and
used in order to better ensure that peo-
ple coming in illegally will be able to
stay here.
I did vote against my own party’s
motion to recommit. That is not the
way that kind of spending should be
done. Two billion dollars will end up
luring people again to this country. If
we advertise, and people will know, the
drug cartels will use it. Look, they just
voted through a provision that will
provide $2 to $3 billion for medicine,
medication, for people who come into
the country illegally. That is not some-
thing we should be playing a game
with. That is why I voted no. This is
too serious to be taken lightly.
We shouldn’t be playing politics with
things like that. Let’s secure the bor-
der and take care of folks who are here
and ensure that people who come into
this country do so legally.
Actually, I asked a question to Sec-
retary Nielsen when she was at Home-
land Security this year. I asked her:
What if we were to have immigration
judges, not in an interior courtroom
somewhere across America, but had
immigration judges there at the bor-
der, even if we had to just set up big
tents, have the immigration judges at
the border? She said that would solve
the problem. You wouldn’t have to give
somebody a notice to come back for a
hearing 4 years from now to determine
whether they can stay in the country
legally or not, and for which most peo-
ple never come back for their hearing.
I am hopeful that, at some point,
President Trump will say: Do you
know what, let’s don’t set hearings
years off. In fact, Secretary Nielsen, as
I recall, indicated, if somebody is kept
there at a facility near the border, they
normally have a hearing 90 to 100 days,
120 days, from when they are picked up.
But if they are released on some kind
of recognizance or bond, it is years, on
average, before they have their hear-
ing. Well, let’s solve that.
Let’s just send our immigration
judges to the border. If you come
across and claim asylum, let’s have
your hearing today, and we will know
by tonight whether you get to stay or
whether we are taking you back across.
But it doesn’t do much good to ‘‘de-
port’’ someone who is here illegally if
you don’t secure the border. That is
why a guy who ended up in my felony
courtroom, who had nine DWIs and
didn’t speak English, and he finally
came to my felony court after—nor-
mally, a third DWI gets charged as a
felony, but somehow, he had gotten by.
And on the ninth DWI—he was driving
while intoxicated—he ended up causing
an accident, nearly killed some folks,
and did serious damage.
But I figured if he had nine DWIs,
this guy is a threat to the safety of ev-
erybody in this country. Everybody le-
gally and illegally in this country is at
risk if this guy is here, out, and driv-
ing.
So I went ahead and sent him to pris-
on. Nine DWIs is far too many, espe-
cially when you start doing serious
bodily injury to people. And I was
shocked that within 6 months he was
back in my courtroom. He was driving
drunk and hurt somebody else.
Through the interpreter, I asked him:
How is he back here in my courtroom?
I sent him to prison. And he said: Well,
about 3 months after—well, at that
time, it was not even 3 months, it may
have been a month—he was picked up
and deported. They carried him to the
border. And through the interpreter, he
explained that they made him walk
across the border. And I said: So how
are you back here? He said: I waited
until the deportation officers drove off.
And then he came back across the bor-
der as soon as they left, got back to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.069 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3722 May 10, 2019
drinking and driving, and ended up
back in my courtroom.
So, this time, I thought, well, if he is
going to be here, obviously, he is an al-
coholic, so I sent him to a substance
abuse felony punishment facility be-
cause everybody there is either an al-
coholic or a drug addict. They go
through a 12-step program. And I fig-
ured, well, if he is going to be in the
country, for heaven’s sake, he at least
needs to be clean and sober. And I got
word that at that facility he was there
about 90 days before he was deported. I
would imagine he came back in the
country somewhere, but, obviously, not
back to my county.
So why wouldn’t we enforce our bor-
ders? A country that has no borders, or
that has borders that are not enforced,
it is not a country, it is not definable,
it is just kind of an area where people
go.
If we are going to continue to be a
shining light for so many countries and
so many people around the world, we
need to follow the law, not show favor-
itism, not to people because they are
poor, not to people because they are
rich, but to be fair and enforce the laws
across the board.
That brings me to an important
point that has been in the news a great
deal lately, and, actually, it has been
going on for some time. This country,
regardless of how many people may
want to rewrite history, was largely in-
habited and founded by people who
were Christians, different denomina-
tions, who were looking to have a place
where they were not persecuted for
being a Christian. And I know, we are
told, as Christians, we are going to suf-
fer for Christ’s sake. And I know Jesus
said, remember, when they hate you,
they hated me first.
But, for whatever reason, we have
been allowed to have a country, unlike
most any place in history, where you
are not persecuted for being a Chris-
tian. Now, there are different denomi-
nations that would have big controver-
sies with other denominations. Some of
that was playing out in the first 5
weeks of the constitutional convention
in 1787.
That is when Ben Franklin gave his
famous speech. How do we know what
he said? Well, Madison was taking
notes. But afterwards, Franklin was
asked for a copy of his speech. He sat
down and wrote it out. Everybody who
was there who saw the speech said: Oh,
yeah, this is word for word everything
he said.
And I know most children apparently
in the country are taught that Ben
Franklin was a deist, you know, some-
one who believed that there was some
force, some being, something that cre-
ated the universe. And if that thing,
being, force still exists anymore, it
never interferes with the laws of na-
ture or the activity of human beings, it
never gets involved. And kids are being
taught Ben Franklin was a deist.
But he stood up. He is 82 years old.
He has gout, he has advanced arthritis,
he is overweight, he has trouble get-
ting up and down the few steps into
Independence Hall, he has trouble get-
ting up, he has a cane, and often had to
have help.
And he hadn’t really spoken to that
point at the convention. One of the
people at the convention wrote that
President Washington—he wasn’t
President of the country, he was Presi-
dent of the constitutional convention—
that President Washington looked re-
lieved when Dr. Franklin sought rec-
ognition because there was so much
screaming going on. Franklin didn’t
have an M.D. or a Ph.D., but he was
certainly recognized as being worthy of
being a doctor.
But Franklin gets up—he probably
had help—and we know what he said
because he wrote it down. And he
starts about saying, you know, we have
been going on for nearly 5 weeks. We
have got more noes than ayes on vir-
tually every vote. And then this is his
verbatim, he says:
How has it happened, sir, that we have not
thought of humbly seeking illumination
from the source of all life?
That is not verbatim, but close.
He said:
In the beginning of the contest with Great
Britain, when we were sensible of danger, we
had daily prayer in this room. Our prayers so
were heard, and they were graciously an-
swered.
Then he goes on to point out that ev-
erybody in there should remember spe-
cific things that they prayed for as
leaders in the Continental Congress
during the Revolution, and that they
should remember how specific things
they prayed for were answered by God.
And then back to verbatim he says:
‘‘I have lived, sir, a long time.’’ He is a
year or so away from meeting his
maker. And he said: ‘‘And the longer I
live, the more convincing proofs I see
of this truth—that God governs in the
affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot
fall to the ground without his notice, is
it probable that an empire can rise
without his aid?’’
b 1345
He is talking about the Bible: We
have been assured, sir, in the sacred
writings that no empire is going to rise
without his aid.
He says that we have a chance to cre-
ate something special. These are not
his verbatim words. He said if we take
advantage of that and we come to-
gether, by the grace of God, we are
going to have a special country. He
adds, without God’s grace, we are going
to succeed no better than the builders
of Babel.
He said that we will be confounded by
our local partial interests, and we, our-
selves, shall become a byword down
through the ages.
He goes on and ends up making a mo-
tion, just like during the Revolution,
just like with the Continental Con-
gress, that the Constitutional Conven-
tion should start with prayer every
day.
See, it was really a secular Congress
because they voted that down. If you
go look at what the discussion was,
there were a bunch of different denomi-
nations there. Usually, the Quakers
were most disagreeable about whom
they would approve for saying a prayer
for the whole group.
As the debate pointed out, yes, dur-
ing the Revolution, we had a treasury.
We had money so we could hire a Chris-
tian chaplain to say the prayer every
day for us.
There wasn’t anybody here that
could say a prayer that everybody else
in the Convention would feel got a fair
shake for their denomination. But we
could hire, agree on, one chaplain, one
minister who would say a prayer for
everybody.
Here we are at the Convention, and
we are not getting paid. We don’t have
a treasury, so we are going to have to
put off hiring a chaplain to do the
prayer every day until we get this con-
stitution done. That is why it didn’t
get approved.
Then Randolph from Virginia gets
up. He says he understands that we
don’t have money to hire a chaplain to
do the prayer every day, but here we
are at the end of June—this is 1787. He
said it is the end of June, and we are
about to celebrate our Nation’s birth-
day. We are not accomplishing any-
thing, so why don’t we recess here now
and reconvene together in a church
that we all agree on, a Christian
church. We all go there together, and
on our Nation’s birthday, we worship
God together. Then we come back and
try to work this constitution thing
out.
That passed. The Delegates at the
Constitutional Convention came to-
gether and worshipped on our Nation’s
birthday at the Reformed Calvinist
Church in Philadelphia, Reverend Wil-
liam Rogers presiding. He was the min-
ister. I think you can even find online
one of the prayers that he prayed for
the Convention.
As somebody wrote back then, when
they came back together, there were
differences. There was a different spir-
it, and they were able to come to-
gether. They were able to reach an
agreement.
There was such strong division
among the most populous States. They
said we are the most populous States,
so we ought to have more representa-
tion. Others said, no, we can’t come to-
gether unless we all have equal rep-
resentation.
The Great Compromise came to-
gether, that we will have two separate
bodies within the Congress. We will
have one where States have representa-
tion based on the population, and it
won’t be like the House of Lords where
they really don’t have any power. This
will be a separate body. They will have
just as much power as the other house,
but every State gets two representa-
tives, and then we will balance.
That was the Great Compromise. It
enabled them to come together. There
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.070 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3723
May 10, 2019
were great concerns about human
rights and government intrusion into
people’s private matters. They wanted
to make sure that a king or President
couldn’t just sign an order to go search
somebody’s home, take over a home, or
go gather up anything they wanted.
They agreed that if we come together
on this Constitution, then we also
agree that it must have a Bill of Rights
that comes with it.
The first of the Bill of Rights that
was approved, the first 10 amendments,
they didn’t want to have a Church of
England that was the official govern-
ment church. They didn’t want a gov-
ernment church.
Of course, now we got one. It is
called, informally, the church of secu-
larism the Supreme Court has forced us
into. Regardless of what anybody
thinks, a government—and I used to
say in college that you can’t legislate
morality. Eventually, I have realized a
government legislates somebody’s mo-
rality. It may be no morality, and we
have kind of come to that.
Moses’ face is up there because at one
time he was considered to be the great-
est lawgiver of all time. You have
Hammurabi, the Justinian Code, start-
ed by Justin. Napoleon, Jefferson—Jef-
ferson didn’t help with the Constitu-
tion, but these are all the great law-
givers, considered as such. We have two
or three Popes up here. But Moses was
supposed to be the great one.
In recent years, children are being
taught there is no real right or wrong.
It is whatever you feel in your heart is
wrong, and it is all relative. Right and
wrong are relative. That is not what
Moses said.
I was hearing Dennis Prager earlier
today saying you cannot have a free
country based on secularist beliefs,
based on atheism. You can’t.
The only way you can have the level
of freedom we have had is not requiring
everybody to be a Christian but to base
the government upon Judeo-Christian
beliefs. That has been our history.
We welcome people. We don’t mind
anybody having any religion or no reli-
gion. But the only way you can have
that kind of freedom is to base it on
Christian beliefs.
I know from visiting with General
Jay Garner, who President Bush ini-
tially sent to Iraq to talk to people and
get a feel from the Iraqis what kind of
government they should have, he
talked to a direct descendant of Mo-
hammed.
There were a lot of people with him.
After they left, General Garner asked if
everybody heard what they said.
They all agreed they heard. There
was a reporter there. They asked if he
was going to write that in a story. He
said, no, nobody will believe it. They
would think he was crazy.
But this very devout Muslim, de-
scendant of Mohammed, said, in es-
sence—summary—we need a govern-
ment that is based on a constitution
that Iraqis write, that the government
be composed of Iraqis, and the con-
stitution needs to be based on the
teachings of Jesus.
After he left, General Garner asked:
Did you guys all hear that?
He said, yes, he said they need a con-
stitution based on the teachings of
Jesus. A devout Muslim descendant of
Mohammed agreed that if you really
want a free society, use the teachings
of Jesus.
The Founders knew, just like the de-
scendant of Mohammed, that is the
best way to have a free country. But
now we are seeing more and more the
persecution of Christians.
Now the U.N. General Secretary,
back when he was in charge of all the
refugee programs, was asked about why
there is not as high a percentage of
Christians in the U.N. refugee program
as there is a percentage of Christians
in the areas where refugees are coming
from, like Syria.
He basically made the statement
that Christians are so very important
to those geographic areas that we
think it is important to leave them
where they are. They were being wiped
out where they were.
The truth is, when Christians were
coming to the U.N. refugee camps to be
reassigned or sent elsewhere after that,
they were often victims of violence.
I read many reports, talked to people
over in some of the refugee camps. The
Christians didn’t want to go there.
They didn’t like the way they were
picked on, so you didn’t find that many
Christians in those camps.
Here is an article from May 3. This is
from the BBC because this stuff is not
being reported properly in the main-
stream media in America.
The title is, ‘‘Christians Are ‘Most
Persecuted Group.’ ’’ It says, ‘‘The per-
secution of Christians in parts of the
world is at or near ‘genocide’ levels, ac-
cording to a report ordered by the For-
eign Secretary Jeremy Hunt.’’ That is
the Foreign Secretary in England.
Christians were the most persecuted
religious group, is what this study
found.
‘‘The interim report said the main
impact of ‘genocidal acts against
Christians is exodus’ and that Christi-
anity faced being ‘wiped out’ from
parts of the Middle East. It warned the
religion’’—talking about Christianity—
‘‘ ‘is at risk of disappearing’ in some
parts of the world, pointing to figures
which claimed Christians in Palestine
represent less than 1.5 percent of the
population, while in Iraq they had fall-
en from 1.5 million before 2003 to less
than 120,000.’’
‘‘ ‘Evidence shows not only the geo-
graphic spread of anti-Christian perse-
cution, but also its increasing sever-
ity.’ ’’
It says, ‘‘ ‘In some regions, the level
and nature of persecution is arguably
coming close to meeting the inter-
national definition of genocide, accord-
ing to that adopted by the U.N.’ . . . Its
findings come after more than 250 peo-
ple were killed and more than 500
wounded in attacks at hotels and
churches in Sri Lanka on Easter Sun-
day.’’
I mean, this is the kind of stuff going
on.
The article goes on, again from the
BBC, ‘‘ ‘What we have forgotten in that
atmosphere of political correctness is
actually the Christians that are being
persecuted are some of the poorest peo-
ple on the planet.’
‘‘In response to the report, the presi-
dent of the Board of Deputies of British
Jews, Marie van der Zyl, said Jews had
often been the targets of persecution
and felt for Christians who were dis-
criminated against on the basis of their
faith.
‘‘ ‘Whether it is authoritarian re-
gimes or bigotry masked in the mis-
taken guise of religion, reports like the
one launched today remind us that
there are many places in which Chris-
tians face appalling levels of violence,
abuse, and harassment.’ ’’
Pretty tragic. Then here in the
United States, this story from CBN
News, May 7, this year, the Pacific In-
stitute, ‘‘The Pacific Justice Institute,
PJI, announced Tuesday that a Bible
study for elderly residents of the Vet-
erans Home of California has been re-
stored.’’
b 1400
‘‘The facility is owned and operated
by the California Department of Vet-
erans Affairs.
‘‘The nonprofit PJI,’’ Pacific Justice
Institute, ‘‘also says its attorneys will
continue to fight for full restoration of
religious freedom in the facility.
‘‘After some negotiation, CalVet’’—
that is California Department of Vet-
erans Affairs—‘‘said it would allow
Artis Breau and her Bible study
attendees to resume the Bible study,
effective immediately, after it had
been shut down for weeks.
‘‘However, CalVet’’—that is Cali-
fornia Department of Veterans Af-
fairs—‘‘continues to insist that it can
investigate and substantiate allega-
tions against Breau and her fellow resi-
dents for expressing religious views
that it’’—the California Department of
Veterans Affairs—‘‘deems ‘offensive,’
and even for discussing Heaven and sal-
vation.
‘‘ ‘We are encouraged that CalVet re-
alized it could no longer prohibit and
threaten the veterans’ Bible study,’
PJI President Brad Dacus said in a
press release. At the same time, the
agency’s position that it can continue
to punish religious’’—and really, Chris-
tian expression is specifically what
CalVet is going after—‘‘expression it
deems discourteous or offenses is unac-
ceptable. We’ve won an important first
round in this battle for these heroes’’—
the veterans—‘‘and we are committed
to seeing this through to complete vic-
tory.
‘‘PJI attorneys began representing
Breau last fall when staff at the vet-
erans home complained that she had
committed ‘emotional abuse’ and ‘elder
abuse’ by allegedly causing another
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:37 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10MY7.072 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3724 May 10, 2019
resident to lose sleep after a discussion
about Heaven and hell. Last week,
CalVet admitted the allegation was un-
substantiated. . . . ’’
‘‘This past March, a CalVet attorney
threatened to have Breau removed
from the home if she did not imme-
diately halt her longtime Bible study.
‘‘ ‘What we’ve seen at the Veterans
Home of California should concern
every freedom-loving American’ . . .
‘Of all people, our veterans and their
widows from the Greatest Generation
should enjoy the greatest blessings of
liberty—not the least. We’re not about
to let up until these veterans have
complete freedom.’ ’’
That is from the PJI attorneys. It is
just outrageous how wrongheaded peo-
ple have gotten, and that is because
they are imposing a court-ordered im-
position of secularism.
We have come to a point in political
correctness where the only group that
is politically correct to abuse, belittle,
and discriminate against is Christians.
You don’t have to like Christians, but
for heaven’s sake, that is the kind of
freedom in allowing Christians to wor-
ship freely that made us the greatest
country in history.
Now we have got the Equality Act.
Supposedly, it is going to come up next
week.
The Religious Freedom Restoration
Act of 1993 was passed by a huge major-
ity of Democrats in 1993 because they
were concerned, in 1993, some of them,
including our current chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, JERRY NADLER,
about the persecution of Christians and
Jews, and they saw the need to have
the Religious Freedom Restoration Act
of 1993.
Back then, these same people be-
lieved that Moses knew what he was
talking about, and when Jesus quoted
Moses verbatim about marriage, that
he knew what he was talking about.
In fact, we knew that that still was
true in 2008, from David Axelrod’s
book. They knew that Barack Obama
could not win the Presidency if he said
of marriage with the same sex, that
that was fine. It was not sufficient to
say—you could have same-sex relation-
ships. That was fine. But marriage is
what the Bible said is between a man
and a woman.
Apparently, they had polled it every
which way, and in 2008, if you thought
marriage was something besides what
Moses believed and that Jesus said as
he quoted Moses verbatim, then you
couldn’t get elected President.
Now, if you say: I still think what
Moses and Jesus said is what marriage
ought to be. Same-sex relations are one
thing, but marriage, historically, ex-
cept perhaps during the days of
Moses—my understanding is even in
Sodom and Gomorrah, obviously, same-
sex relationships were fine, but even
there, marriage was for procreation;
therefore, it was a man and a woman.
Now if you say that, you are to be per-
secuted. You are to be destroyed for be-
lieving Moses and Jesus knew what
they were talking about.
But some of those same people who
rammed through the Religious Free-
dom Restoration Act of 1993 have now
added this provision that that Reli-
gious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993
shall not provide a claim or a defense
to a claim under this bill, and there is
even a provision here that you can
have a claim filed against a bank, a
lending institution, if they don’t lend
money to someone who is gender con-
fused.
That is what gender dysphoria is.
That is what the DSM–5 calls it, gender
dysphoria, like the opposite of eupho-
ria. It is confusion about one’s gender,
biological gender, which may disagree
with what they feel like that day.
We are seeing great gains made by
women in women’s sports. If this be-
comes law, that will be destroyed. You
will have men’s sports, and you will
have coed sports.
As the lady who was the first to ever
benefit by having a women’s scholar-
ship from Villanova said—she is a
Ph.D.—when she testified: Look, you
have got thousands of men who can
beat the best time in the world for the
women’s 400 meter in the 2016 Olym-
pics. Women won’t be the ones getting
the scholarships anymore if this Equal-
ity Act becomes law.
Martina Navratilova, she makes no
bones about being a lesbian, and she
has been basically destroyed in social
media for saying that a woman should
not have to compete with a biological
man. It is unfair.
We had a lady who tells us, she was a
lesbian testifying: Look, women’s
sports are going to be destroyed if you
pass this bill. All the great gains made
for women being treated fairly and
equally are going to go by the wayside.
I know from my days as a judge,
hearing the tragic stories of sexual as-
sault and aggravated sexual assault,
that women suffer from a greater per-
centage of post-traumatic stress dis-
order than soldiers do if they have been
sexually assaulted.
One of the things that can trigger the
trauma again is being in a confined
space and a man comes in. But the re-
sponse from the majority is, well, they
just basically need to get over it be-
cause we don’t want to hurt the man’s
feelings if he thinks he is a woman.
I hope this doesn’t pass. I hope it
doesn’t become law. There are some
great things in here for equality, but
that is not one of them.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (at the
request of Mr. MCCARTHY) for today
and the balance of the week on account
of his daughter’s college graduation.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 2 o’clock and 8 minutes p.m.),
under its previous order, the House ad-
journed until Tuesday, May 14, 2019, at
noon for morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
974. A letter from the Under Secretary, Ac-
quisition and Sustainment, Department of
Defense, transmitting a report describing the
potential impacts on national defense and
the manufacturing base resulting from con-
tractors or subcontractors relocating steam
turbine production for Nimitz-class and
Ford-class aircraft carriers and Virginia-
class and Columbia-class submarines, pursu-
ant to Public Law 115-232, Sec. 338; (132 Stat.
1728); to the Committee on Armed Services.
975. A letter from the Acting Deputy As-
sistant Secretary for Industrial Policy, Ac-
quisition and Sustainment, Department of
Defense, transmitting an interim response to
a small business strategy requirement, pur-
suant to 10 U.S.C. 2283 note; Public Law 115-
232, Sec. 851(b)(2)(A); (132 Stat.1884); to the
Committee on Armed Services.
976. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Pen-
sion Benefit Guaranty Corporation, trans-
mitting the Corporation’s final rule — Bene-
fits Payable in Terminated Single-Employer
Plans; Interest Assumptions for Paying Ben-
efits received May 6, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
977. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Cyflumetofen; Pesticide Toler-
ances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2017-0532; FRL-9990-60]
received May 6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
978. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Pesticides; Technical Amend-
ment to Data Requirements for Anti-
microbial Pesticides [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0668;
FRL-9984-52] (RIN: 2070-AK41) received May
6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Pub-
lic Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
979. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — National Oil and Hazardous Sub-
stances Pollution Contingency Plan; Na-
tional Priorities List: Partial Deletion of the
Beckman Instruments Superfund Site [EPA-
HQ-SFUND-1986-0005; FRL-9993-34-Region 9]
received May 6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
980. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Environmental Protection Agen-
cy Acquisition Regulation (EPAAR) Clause
Update for Submission of Invoices [EPA-HQ-
OARM-2018-0742; FRL 9992-99-OMS] received
May 6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
981. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 18:44 Aug 02, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\MAY\H10MY9.REC H10MY9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3725
May 10, 2019
Air Quality Implementation Plans; Pennsyl-
vania; Regulatory Amendments Addressing
Reasonably Available Control Technology
Requirements Under the 1997 and 2008 8-Hour
Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Stand-
ards [EPA-R03-OAR-2017-0290; FRL-9993-36-
Region 3] received May 6, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
982. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Air Quality Implementation Plans; Mary-
land; Reasonably Available Control Tech-
nology for Cement Kilns, Revisions to Port-
land Cement Manufacturing Plant and Nat-
ural Gas Compression Station Regulations,
and Removal of Nitrogen Oxides Reduction
and Trading Program Replaced by Other
Programs and Regulations; Correction [EPA-
R03-OAR-2016-0309; FRL-9993-31-Region 3] re-
ceived May 6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
983. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Air Quality Implementation Plans; Colorado;
Revisions to Regulation Number 3 [EPA-R08-
OAR-2018-0593 FRL-9992-97-Region 8] received
May 6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
984. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; Wisconsin;
Nonattainment New Source Review Require-
ments for the 2008 8-Hour Ozone Standard
[EPA-R05-OAR-2018-0569; FRL-9993-25-Region
5] received May 6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
985. A letter from the Chief of Staff, Media
Bureau, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting the Commission’s final
rule — Elimination of Obligation to File
Broadcast Mid-Term Report (Form 397)
Under Section 73.2080(f)(2) [MB Docket No.:
18-23] Modernization of Media Regulation
Initiative [MD Docket No.: 17-105] received
May 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
986. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to Sudan that was de-
clared in Executive Order 13067 of November
3, 1997, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); Public
Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c); (90 Stat. 1257) and 50
U.S.C. 1703(c); Public Law 95-223, Sec 204(c);
(91 Stat. 1627); to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
987. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Department of Defense Privacy
Program; Correction [Docket ID: DOD-2018-
OS-0008] (RIN: 0790-AJ20) received May 3,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
988. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Personnel and Readiness, Department of De-
fense, transmitting the Department’s FY
2018 No FEAR Act report, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 2301 note; Public Law 107-174, 203(a)
(as amended by Public Law 109-435, Sec.
604(f)); (120 Stat. 3242); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
989. A letter from the Office of General
Counsel, Department of Transportation, Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, transmitting
a notification of a nomination, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112
Stat. 2681-614); to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
990. A letter from the Senior Procurement
Executive, Office of Acquisition Policy, Gen-
eral Services Administration, transmitting
the Administration’s final rule — Federal
Acquisition Regulation; Technical Amend-
ments [FAC 2019-02; Item III; Docket No.:
2019-0002; Sequence No.: 1] received May 6,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
991. A letter from the Senior Procurement
Executive, Office of Acquisition Policy, Gen-
eral Services Administration, transmitting
the Administration’s small entity compli-
ance guide — Federal Acquisition Regula-
tion; Federal Acquisition Circular 2019-02
[Docket No.: FAR 2019-0001, Sequence No.: 1]
received May 6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
992. A letter from the Executive Director,
Interstate Commission on the Potomac
River Basin, transmitting the Commission’s
audited Seventy-Eighth Financial State-
ment for the period for October 1, 2017 to
September 30, 2018; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
993. A letter from the President and Chief
Executive Officer, Neighborhood Reinvest-
ment Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s FY 2019 Operating Plan and perform-
ance goals, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 8106(a);
Public Law 95-557, Sec. 607(a); (92 Stat. 2118);
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
994. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pollock in the West
Yakutat District of the Gulf of Alaska
[Docket No.: 170816769-8162-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG834) received May 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
995. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Foreign Criminal and Civil Ju-
risdiction [Docket ID: DOD-2012-OS-0069]
(RIN: 0790-AI89) received May 8, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
996. A letter from the Attorney — Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Defense,
transmitting the Department’s temporary
final rule — Safety Zone; Lake of the Ozarks,
Osage Beach, MO [Docket Number: USCG-
2019-0113] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received May 8,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
997. A letter from the Attorney Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Anchorage Grounds; Baltimore
Harbor, Baltimore, MD [Docket Number:
USCG-2017-0181] (RIN: 1625-AA01) received
May 8, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
998. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Special Local Regu-
lation; Lake Pontchartrain, New Orleans, LA
[Docket No.: USCG-2019-0058] (RIN: 1625-
AA08) received May 8, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
999. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Drawbridge Operation Regula-
tion; Youngs Bay and Lewis and Clark River,
Astoria, OR [Docket No.: USCG-2018-0131]
(RIN: 1625-AA09) received May 8, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1000. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Sail
Grand Prix 2019 Practice Days Safety Zone
for Sailing Vessels; San Francisco, CA
[Docket No.: USCG-2019-0101] (RIN: 1625-
AA00) received May 8, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
1001. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
for Legislation, Department of Health and
Human Services, transmitting a report enti-
tled, ‘‘Report to Congress on the Administra-
tion, Cost, and Impact of the Quality Im-
provement Organization Program for Medi-
care Beneficiaries for Fiscal Year 2018’’, pur-
suant to 42 U.S.C. 1320c-10; Aug. 14, 1935, ch.
531, title XI, Sec. 1161 (as amended by Public
Law 97-248, Sec. 143); (96 Stat. 392); jointly to
the Committees on Energy and Commerce
and Ways and Means.
1002. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Legislative Affairs, Department of Defense,
transmitting additional legislative proposals
that the Department of Defense requests be
enacted during the first session of the 116th
Congress; jointly to the Committees on
Armed Services, Foreign Affairs, Oversight
and Reform, and the Judiciary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 1010. A bill to provide that
the rule entitled ‘‘Short-Term, Limited Du-
ration Insurance’’ shall have no force or ef-
fect (Rept. 116–43, Pt. 2). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 1499. A bill to prohibit brand
name drug manufacturers from compen-
sating generic drug manufacturers to delay
the entry of a generic drug into the market,
and to prohibit biological product manufac-
turers from compensating biosimilar and
interchangeable product manufacturers to
delay entry of biosimilar and interchange-
able products, and for other purposes; with
an amendment (Rept. 116–52, Pt. 1). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 987. A bill to amend the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care Act to
provide for Federal Exchange outreach and
educational activities; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–53, Pt. 1). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
Mr. GRIJALVA: Committee on Natural Re-
sources. H.R. 312. A bill to reaffirm the
Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe reservation, and
for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–54). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10MY7.000 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3726 May 10, 2019
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 965. A bill to promote com-
petition in the market for drugs and biologi-
cal products by facilitating the timely entry
of lower-cost generic and biosimilar versions
of those drugs and biological products; with
an amendment (Rept. 116–55, Pt. 1). Ordered
to be printed.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 965. A bill to promote competition
in the market for drugs and biological prod-
ucts by facilitating the timely entry of
lower-cost generic and biosimilar versions of
those drugs and biological products (Rept.
116–55, Pt. 2). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 5. A bill to prohibit discrimination
on the basis of sex, gender identity, and sex-
ual orientation, and for other purposes; with
an amendment (Rept. 116–56, Pt. 1). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Ms. WATERS: Committee on Financial
Services. H.R. 1500. A bill to require the Con-
sumer Financial Protection Bureau to meet
its statutory purpose, and for other purposes;
with an amendment (Rept. 116–57, Pt. 1). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 299. A bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to clarify presumptions
relating to the exposure of certain veterans
who served in the vicinity of the Republic of
Vietnam, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–58). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committees on Education and Labor,
Financial Services, Oversight and Re-
form, and House Administration dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 5 referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on the Budget discharged
from further consideration. H.R. 987 re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Ways and Means dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 1010 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on the Judiciary discharged
from further consideration. H.R. 1499
referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Education and Labor
discharged from further consideration.
H.R. 1500 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. TONKO (for himself and Mr.
MCKINLEY):
H.R. 2659. A bill to establish a research, de-
velopment, and technology demonstration
program to improve the efficiency of gas tur-
bines used in combined cycle and simple
cycle power generation systems; to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for
himself, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. SARBANES,
Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. AGUILAR, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms. UNDER-
WOOD, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Ms. TITUS, Ms. TORRES
SMALL of New Mexico, and Mr.
CORREA):
H.R. 2660. A bill to protect elections for
public office by providing financial support
and enhanced security for the infrastructure
used to carry out such elections, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on House
Administration, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Homeland Security, Intelligence
(Permanent Select), Science, Space, and
Technology, Foreign Affairs, and the Judici-
ary, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. TIPTON (for himself and Mr.
GOSAR):
H.R. 2661. A bill to amend the Rural Elec-
trification Act of 1936 to provide require-
ments on the use of assistance for broadband
deployment, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture, and in addition
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. ESCOBAR (for herself, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. NORTON, Ms. GARCIA
of Texas, Ms. OMAR, Mr. GALLEGO,
Ms. TLAIB, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. BONAMICI, Mrs.
TORRES of California, Mrs. DAVIS of
California, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. DEAN,
Ms. LEE of California, Mr. VELA, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. VARGAS, Ms. SPEIER, Ms.
SCANLON, and Ms. MUCARSEL-POW-
ELL):
H.R. 2662. A bill to prohibit funds from
being used to implement the Migrant Protec-
tion Protocols announced by the Secretary
of Homeland Security on December 20, 2018;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. WALORSKI:
H.R. 2663. A bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act to repeal the retirement
earnings test, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CARTER of Georgia (for him-
self and Mr. VEASEY):
H.R. 2664. A bill to improve energy per-
formance in Federal buildings, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCNERNEY (for himself and
Mr. KINZINGER):
H.R. 2665. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Energy to establish a smart energy and
water efficiency program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committees on
Natural Resources, and Transportation and
Infrastructure, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. CLEAVER (for himself and Mr.
SMITH of Missouri):
H.R. 2666. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide payment
under part A of the Medicare Program on a
reasonable cost basis for anesthesia services
furnished by an anesthesiologist in certain
rural hospitals in the same manner as pay-
ments are provided for anesthesia services
furnished by anesthesiologist assistants and
certified registered nurse anesthetists in
such hospitals, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CARTER of Texas:
H.R. 2667. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make employers of
spouses of military personnel eligible for the
work opportunity credit; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Ms. DEGETTE (for herself, Mr.
REED, Mr. O’HALLERAN, and Mr.
MULLIN):
H.R. 2668. A bill to amend section 330B of
the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize
special programs for Type I diabetes, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 2669. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect
to liability under State and local require-
ments respecting devices; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, and Ms. DELAURO):
H.R. 2670. A bill to protect the Nation’s law
enforcement officers by regulating the sale
of the Five-seveN pistol and its variants,
testing handguns for capability to penetrate
body armor, and regulating the manufacture,
importation, sale, or purchase of such hand-
guns by civilians; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York, Ms.
NORTON, and Mr. RASKIN):
H.R. 2671. A bill to amend chapter 44 of
title 18, United States Code, to treat flame-
throwers the same as machineguns; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself and Mr.
RUSH):
H.R. 2672. A bill to amend section 487(a) of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide
increased accountability of nonprofit ath-
letic associations and to establish a commis-
sion to identify and examine issues of na-
tional concern related to the conduct of
intercollegiate athletics, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. KIM (for himself and Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ):
H.R. 2673. A bill to enhance the ability of
the Office of the National Ombudsman to as-
sist small businesses in meeting regulatory
requirements and develop outreach initia-
tives to promote awareness of the services
the Office of the National Ombudsman pro-
vides, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Small Business.
By Mr. MORELLE (for himself, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, and Mr. HIGGINS of New
York):
H.R. 2674. A bill to enhance safety and se-
curity at federally licensed gun shops, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. MOULTON (for himself, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. SOTO, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, and Mr. CRIST):
H.R. 2675. A bill to provide for a Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs policy on medicinal
cannabis, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.030 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3727
May 10, 2019
By Mr. MOULTON (for himself, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. SOTO, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, and Mr. CRIST):
H.R. 2676. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to seek to enter into an
agreement with a federally funded research
and development center to conduct surveys
to measure cannabis use by veterans, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. MOULTON (for himself, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. SOTO, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, and Mr. CRIST):
H.R. 2677. A bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to provide training in the
use of medical cannabis for all Department
of Veterans Affairs primary care providers,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, and Mr.
DEUTCH):
H.R. 2678. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to provide for the tolling of the
statute of limitations with regard to certain
offenses committed by the President of the
United States during or prior to tenure in of-
fice, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself, Mr.
KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr. KILDEE,
and Ms. DEAN):
H.R. 2679. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow tax free distribu-
tions from section 529 college savings plans
for certain expenses associated with reg-
istered apprenticeship programs; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself, Mr.
COLE, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. DEGETTE,
Mr. REED, and Mr. MULLIN):
H.R. 2680. A bill to amend section 330C of
the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize
special programs for Indians for providing
services for the prevention and treatment of
diabetes, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. PAPPAS (for himself and Ms.
STEFANIK):
H.R. 2681. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress a re-
port on the availability of prosthetic items
for women veterans from the Department of
Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama (for him-
self and Mr. RUSH):
H.R. 2682. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to require multichannel
video programming distributors to carry
rural video programming, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 2683. A bill to increase consumer pro-
tection with respect to negative option
agreements entered into on the Internet, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 2684. A bill to require the Federal In-
surance Office of the Department of the
Treasury to conduct a study to identify dis-
parities between communities in auto insur-
ance costs and payout amounts based on the
predominant racial makeup of such commu-
nities, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 2685. A bill to amend the Wild Bird
Conservation Act of 1992 to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal years 2020 through 2025,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. WATERS (for herself, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. TLAIB, and Ms. OMAR):
H.R. 2686. A bill to prohibit the transfer,
obligation, or expenditure of Federal funds
to take property for the construction of a
wall along the southern border, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for her-
self, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. COHEN, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Ms. ESHOO, Mr. KILMER, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. MOULTON, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina,
Mr. RUIZ, Mr. RYAN, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, and Mr.
TONKO):
H.R. 2687. A bill to prohibit discrimination
in public accommodations on the basis of
sex, gender identity, and sexual orientation,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
H.R. 2688. A bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to ex-
pand the use of salad bars in schools; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr.
MCCAUL, Mr. HOYER, Mr. MCCARTHY,
Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. GRANGER, Mr. NAD-
LER, and Mr. COLLINS of Georgia):
H. Res. 372. A resolution expressing con-
cern for the United States-Turkey alliance;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in
addition to the Committees on Financial
Services, Oversight and Reform, Ways and
Means, and the Judiciary, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. BIGGS:
H. Res. 373. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of a National Move Over
Law Day; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. MCCLINTOCK (for himself, Mr.
SHERMAN, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr.
HURD of Texas, Mr. WEBSTER of Flor-
ida, Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. WEBER of Texas,
Mr. BUDD, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, Mr. COOK, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr.
DIAZ-BALART, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
STEUBE, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. WIL-
SON of South Carolina, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr.
STEWART, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. CLAY, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
GOHMERT, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. JOHN-
SON of Ohio, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr.
WALKER, Mr. NORMAN, Mrs.
HARTZLER, Mrs. MILLER, Mr. PETER-
SON, Mr. ALLRED, and Mr. BURGESS):
H. Res. 374. A resolution condemning Ira-
nian state-sponsored terrorism and express-
ing support for the Iranian people’s desire for
a democratic, secular, and non-nuclear re-
public of Iran; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Ms. WILSON of Florida (for herself,
Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. WILD, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Ms. BASS, Ms.
ADAMS, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CLY-
BURN, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. HASTINGS, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. PAYNE, and Ms.
SEWELL of Alabama):
H. Res. 375. A resolution recognizing the
Fifth Anniversary of the Chibok Girls Kid-
napping by the Boko Haram Terrorist Orga-
nization and calling on the Government of
Nigeria to redouble efforts to bring an end to
the conflict in northeast and central Nigeria
and to provide assistance to the victims; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Ms. MENG,
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, and
Mr. ROSE of New York):
H. Res. 376. A resolution recognizing
Israeli-American heritage and the contribu-
tions of the Israeli-American community to
the United States; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
49. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the Legislature of the State of Hawaii, rel-
ative to House Concurrent Resolution No. 89,
requesting the United States Congress to
enact legislation removing cannabis from
the Federal Controlled Substances Act and
facilitate the full spectrum of private bank-
ing services for cannabis-related business;
which was referred jointly to the Commit-
tees on Energy and Commerce and the Judi-
ciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 2659.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have power to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by the Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
H.R. 2660.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 2661.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause III: ‘‘To regu-
late Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.’’
By Ms. ESCOBAR:
H.R. 2662.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Mrs. WALORSKI:
H.R. 2663.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of section 8 of article I of the Con-
stitution, to ‘‘provide for the common de-
fense and general welfare of the United
States.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10MY7.100 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3728 May 10, 2019
By Mr. CARTER of Georgia:
H.R. 2664.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution.
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.R. 2665.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States grants Congress the au-
thority to enact this bill.
By Mr. CLEAVER:
H.R. 2666.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defense and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States.
Article I, Section 9:
No Money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law.
By Mr. CARTER of Texas:
H.R. 2667.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1:
The Congress shall have power to lay and
collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to
pay debts and provide foo the common De-
fense and general Welfare of the United
States; but all duties, imposts, and excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States.
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 2668.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 2669.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.R. 2670.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 1;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3; and
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.R. 2671.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 1;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3; and
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 2672.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. KIM:
H.R. 2673.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution, which provides
Congress with the ability to enact legisla-
tion to provide for the general welfare of the
United States.
By Mr. MORELLE:
H.R. 2674.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. MOULTON:
H.R. 2675.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. MOULTON:
H.R. 2676.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. MOULTON:
H.R. 2677.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 2678.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clauses 1, 3 and 18, of
the United States Constitution
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H.R. 2679.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 2680.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. PAPPAS:
H.R. 2681.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Sec. 8, Clause 1, of the United
States Constitution states that ‘‘Congress
shall have power to lay and collect taxes, du-
ties, imposts and excises, to pay the debts
and provide for the common defense and gen-
eral welfare of the United States.’’ [Page
H473]
By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama:
H.R. 2682.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 2683.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 2684.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 3 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. VAN DREW:
H.R. 2685.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 of the Constitution of the United
States of America.
By Ms. WATERS:
H.R. 2686.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 1 of the U.S.
Constitution and Article 1, Section 9, clause
7 of the U.S. Constitution.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H.R. 2687.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. WILSON of Florida:
H.R. 2688.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 36: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. PA-
NETTA, and Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 100: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 129: Mr. LUCAS.
H.R. 154: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 158: Ms. MOORE and Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 249: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Ms.
LEE of California, and Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 307: Mrs. LURIA and Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 312: Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. LYNCH, Ms.
SCANLON, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
KIND, Mr. VARGAS, Ms. DEAN, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Mr.
PANETTA, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H.R. 388: Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 413: Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. MEEKS, Mr.
CLYBURN, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. RICHMOND,
Mr. PAYNE, Mr. LEWIS, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. FUDGE,
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
and Ms. BASS.
H.R. 435: Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 478: Mr. RYAN and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 549: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois and Mr.
CURTIS.
H.R. 555: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 578: Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 586: Mr. FERGUSON, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
CRENSHAW, and Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 594: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 611: Mr. SCALISE.
H.R. 647: Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Ms. WILD, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. COLLINS
of Georgia, Mr. HARDER of California, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, and Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 649: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 652: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 677: Mr. RUSH and Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 693: Mr. CLAY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr.
HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 726: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 730: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 808: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 824: Mr. SWALWELL of California and
Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 832: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 838: Mr. THOMPSON of California and
Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 850: Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 864: Mrs. NAPOLITANO and Mr. KIM.
H.R. 871: Mr. PERLMUTTER and Mrs. LEE of
Nevada.
H.R. 873: Mr. NEAL.
H.R. 877: Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 886: Mr. KATKO and Mr.
RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 906: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H.R. 929: Mr. LARSEN of Washington and
Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 935: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 943: Mrs. TRAHAN, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Ms. WILD, Mrs. TORRES of Cali-
fornia, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. ESHOO, and Mr.
GOODEN.
H.R. 956: Mr. SCALISE.
H.R. 965: Ms. UNDERWOOD, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Ms. MENG, and Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 997: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 1008: Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 1030: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1058: Miss RICE of New York and Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 1092: Mr. KILMER and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 1128: Mr. KILMER and Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1175: Mr. CLAY, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and
Mr. DIAZ-BALART.
H.R. 1220: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 1228: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 1241: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 1309: Mr. SERRANO, Ms. WATERS, and
Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1321: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 1327: Mr. SMUCKER, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr.
YOHO, Mr. WOODALL, and Mr. CLEAVER.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.025 H10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3729
May 10, 2019
H.R. 1342: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 1345: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 1379: Ms. MCCOLLUM and Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 1396: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio,
Ms. FUDGE, Mr. BERA, Ms. ADAMS, Mr.
ALLRED, Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. LEWIS,
Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. PLASKETT,
Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. WALTZ, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. POSEY, Mr. BIGGS, Mr.
PAPPAS, and Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 1398: Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. ARRINGTON,
Mr. WALKER, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. MAST,
Mr. RUTHERFORD, and Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 1406: Mr. SENSENBRENNER and Mr.
WITTMAN.
H.R. 1423: Mr. PETERS, Mr. BUTTERFIELD,
Mr. CLYBURN, Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
and Mr. CASTRO of Texas.
H.R. 1440: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 1444: Mr. PALAZZO and Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina.
H.R. 1452: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1497: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas and Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1526: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER.
H.R. 1530: Mr. PANETTA, Ms. BONAMICI, and
Mr. HECK.
H.R. 1568: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia and Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 1579: Mr. ROSE of New York and Mr.
LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 1605: Mr. BUCK, Mr. SCALISE, Mr. STIV-
ERS, and Mr. GRAVES of Georgia.
H.R. 1632: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 1641: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 1643: Mr. SOTO and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1648: Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 1649: Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 1651: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 1673: Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. PALAZZO,
Mr. COX of California, Mr. CRAWFORD, and
Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 1690: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 1697: Mr. KING of Iowa.
H.R. 1711: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1714: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 1716: Mr. BUCHANAN and Mr. MCGOV-
ERN.
H.R. 1730: Mr. MAST and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1770: Mr. DUFFY, Mr. FLORES, Mr.
WESTERMAN, and Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 1783: Ms. PINGREE, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Ms. NORTON, and Ms. LEE of
California.
H.R. 1805: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1830: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr.
KEATING, Ms. WATERS, Mr. MCADAMS, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Ms.
HILL of California, Ms. PORTER, Ms. DEAN,
Mr. CLAY, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. SARBANES, Ms.
DEGETTE, and Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 1837: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 1864: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 1868: Mr. SWALWELL of California and
Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 1869: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr. ALLRED, Mr.
BIGGS, Mr. CASE, and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 1878: Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
PANETTA, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Mrs. LURIA, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. CORREA, and
Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 1880: Ms. OMAR, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Ms. WILD, Ms. HAALAND, and Ms.
HOULAHAN.
H.R. 1896: Mr. HUDSON, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 1903: Mr. UPTON, Ms. SLOTKIN, and Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 1909: Mrs. RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 1934: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 1956: Mr. CRAWFORD.
H.R. 1981: Mr. CASE and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2013: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 2014: Mr. CRAWFORD.
H.R. 2040: Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 2089: Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, Mr. EMMER, Mrs. HAYES, and Mr. FOS-
TER.
H.R. 2097: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2109: Mr. CISNEROS, Mrs. RADEWAGEN,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2134: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 2142: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 2147: Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas, Mr. DELGADO, Mr. BUTTERFIELD,
Ms. BASS, and Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 2163: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 2178: Mrs. AXNE, Mr. GROTHMAN, and
Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2189: Mr. CRIST and Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico.
H.R. 2195: Ms. SCANLON and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2204: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 2231: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2235: Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. WATERS, and Ms.
FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2249: Mr. SCALISE.
H.R. 2291: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 2293: Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. BOST, Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
ROUDA, Mr. TURNER, Mr. JORDAN, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. GIBBS, and Mr. KING of
Iowa.
H.R. 2294: Mr. BARR.
H.R. 2298: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2315: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 2340: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2344: Mr. COOK.
H.R. 2356: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2358: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 2377: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2382: Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, and Mr. MAST.
H.R. 2384: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. KILMER, and Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land.
H.R. 2408: Mr. KING of Iowa and Mr. THOMP-
SON of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 2409: Mr. LAWSON of Florida and Mr.
GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 2411: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 2415: Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr.
CICILLINE, Ms. DELBENE, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. KIL-
MER, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. LEWIS, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. NADLER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. PETERS, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. RUSH, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Ms. TLAIB, and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 2420: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 2424: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
CISNEROS, and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 2426: Mr. BUDD and Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi.
H.R. 2428: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2443: Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. BRADY,
Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. WALKER, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
GROTHMAN, and Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky.
H.R. 2447: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2474: Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. MEEKS, and
Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 2480: Mr. LANGEVIN and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 2493: Mr. STEUBE and Mr. COLLINS of
New York.
H.R. 2505: Mr. NEWHOUSE and Mr. SMUCKER.
H.R. 2508: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2510: Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 2526: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2527: Mr. COHEN, Ms. ADAMS, Ms. BASS,
Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CLYBURN, Ms. FUDGE,
Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
LEWIS, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MOORE, Mr. PAYNE,
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Ms. PLASKETT, and
Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 2569: Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. NEGUSE, and
Mr. SERRANO.
H.R. 2576: Ms. LEE of California and Ms.
MOORE.
H.R. 2585: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2591: Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 2615: Mr. ESPAILLAT and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2623: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
STEUBE, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr. CROW, and Mr.
GOLDEN.
H.R. 2637: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, and Ms. MOORE.
H.J. Res. 2: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.J. Res. 48: Mr. THOMPSON of California
and Mrs. CRAIG.
H. Con. Res. 36: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H. Res. 49: Mr. COOPER.
H. Res. 100: Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. LEVIN of California, and
Mr. HIMES.
H. Res. 112: Mr. SOTO.
H. Res. 114: Mr. WATKINS and Mr. CALVERT.
H. Res. 146: Mr. MEEKS.
H. Res. 165: Mr. MCKINLEY.
H. Res. 179: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. ROSE of New
York, and Miss RICE of New York.
H. Res. 259: Mr. PANETTA, Mr. QUIGLEY, and
Mrs. TORRES of California.
H. Res. 285: Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. CURTIS, Mr.
MARSHALL, Mr. BOST, Mr. HAGEDORN, and Mr.
ROUDA.
H. Res. 289: Mr. SOTO.
H. Res. 310: Mrs. WAGNER.
H. Res. 316: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. RASKIN.
H. Res. 325: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. SHALALA, and Mr. MEEKS.
H. Res. 334: Mr. CONAWAY and Mr. OLSON.
H. Res. 354: Ms. TLAIB, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. SCHIFF, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Mr. CASE, Ms. WEXTON, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. BROOKS of Ala-
bama, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mrs. WAGNER, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, and Mrs.
HARTZLER.
H. Res. 358: Mr. ENGEL, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. COHEN, and Ms. PINGREE.
H. Res. 364: Ms. NORTON, Mr. HIMES, and
Ms. MOORE.
H. Res. 368: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
f
DISCHARGE PETITIONS—
ADDITIONS AND WITHDRAWALS
The following Members added their
names to the following discharge peti-
tion:
Petition 2 by Mr. HICE of Georgia on
House Resolution 132: Mr. Johnson of Lou-
isiana, Mr. Newhouse, Mr. Wilson of South
Carolina, Mr. Abraham, Mr. Brooks of Ala-
bama, Mr. Johnson of South Dakota, Mr.
Green of Tennessee, Mr. Meadows, Mr.
Grothman, Mr. Simpson, Mr. Stewart, and
Mr. Turner.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:55 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY7.033 H10MYPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E573
May 10, 2019
CONGRATULATING UCI CHAN-
CELLOR HOWARD GILLMAN ON
THE 2019 ELLIS ISLAND MEDAL
OF HONOR
HON. KATIE PORTER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Ms. PORTER. Madam Speaker, I am hon-
ored to recognize Dr. Howard Gillman, Chan-
cellor of the University of California, Irvine
(UCI), as a recipient of the Ellis Island Honors
Society’s 2019 Medal of Honor. In his time
with UCI, Dr. Gillman has been an advocate
and an example for students, working to foster
diversity and inclusion throughout the UC sys-
tem.
Dr. Gillman grew up in Southern California
and was a first-generation college student, an
experience that has guided his work at UCI,
where he has been Chancellor since 2014.
Prior to joining UCI, Dr. Gillman spent more
than two decades at the University of South-
ern California (USC), where he held appoint-
ments in the Departments of Political Science
and History and the Gould School of Law.
From 2007 to 2012 he served as dean of the
Dana and David Dornsife College of Letters,
Arts and Sciences, the largest, oldest, and
most academically diverse unit at USC.
As Chancellor, Dr. Gillman has established
UCI as a trailblazer in creating opportunities
for low-income and minority students. The Uni-
versity of California (UC) system has been
called ‘‘California’s Upward-Mobility Machine,’’
and with Dr. Gillman’s guidance, UCI has
stood out as a leader within the UC system.
The New York Times named UCI the No. 1
University ‘‘doing the most for the American
dream,’’ and College Access Index ranked the
campus as one of the nation’s best in its sup-
port of low-income students. UCI has also
been recognized by the U.S. Department of
Education as a Hispanic Serving Institution
(HSI) and as an Asian American and Native
American Pacific Islander-Serving Institution
(AANAPISI), for its role in serving substantial
populations of these students, the majority of
whom receive federal financial assistance.
The Ellis Island Honors Society was ‘‘cre-
ated on the conviction of its founders that the
diversity of the American people is what
makes this nation great.’’ Today, UCI is
ranked sixth in the nation for awarding bach-
elor’s degrees to minority students in the
2016–2017 school year. I thank Dr. Gillman
for his leadership as Chancellor of UCI and
his work to ensure that UCI provides opportu-
nities for a quality, affordable education to
every student.
HONORING THE LIFE OF DR.
ROBERT SPITZER
HON. BRYAN STEIL
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, this weekend,
we say goodbye to a Burlington legend, a man
who exemplified the Wisconsin spirit. A farm-
er, educator, businessman, president of the
Milwaukee School of Engineering, and UN del-
egate, Dr. Robert Spitzer dedicated his life to
bettering the nation and our Southeast Wis-
consin community.
Dr. Spitzer’s reach and knowledge was not
limited to Wisconsin—or the United States. In
nearly every aspect of his life, Dr. Spitzer’s
commitment to agriculture and education is
evident. Dr. Spitzer served as head of the
U.S. State Department’s Food for Peace pro-
gram in the 70s and later as the U.S. delegate
to the United Nations’ World Food Program.
These programs have helped billions of peo-
ple worldwide gain access to food sources.
Among his many accomplishments, Dr. Spitzer
became the third president of the Milwaukee
School of Engineering. Under his leadership,
MSOE expanded its programs, rose enroll-
ment, and became internationally recognized.
Dr. Spitzer also spent more than two decades
at Murphy Products Co., an agribusiness in
Burlington, Wisconsin.
To Dr. Spitzer’s wife, Delores, his children,
grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, our
prayers are with you. Burlington, our state,
and nation are stronger because of Dr.
Spitzer’s innovative spirit and expertise. His
passion and legacy will be remembered for
generations.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF BILL
BOYLE OF TOLEDO
HON. MARCY KAPTUR
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the extraordinary life of William F.
‘‘Bill’’ Boyle, a lifelong Toledoan, a veteran,
police officer, business owner, civic leader,
and a leading force in Lucas County politics
for the better part of four decades.
On behalf of our entire community, please
let me extend deepest sympathy, comfort, and
gratitude to Bill’s beloved family and friends.
Always a family man and proud of his Irish-
American heritage, he was a compassionate
but stern taskmaster, relishing his role as fa-
ther, grandfather, great grandfather, brother,
uncle, and loyal friend.
Bill was born on June 5, 1930 to Theresa
and Daniel Boyle, who immigrated to America
from Ireland. He attended St. Ann Grade
School and was a proud 1948 graduate of
Central Catholic. He attended Georgetown
University, and then later attended the Univer-
sity of Toledo, receiving his bachelor’s degree
in 1990.
He was gifted. He was patriotic. He was a
strong, fearless, and unrelenting leader on
many levels. He was a dogged fighter for his
beliefs. His toughness could mask a sense of
humor that he royally shared. Rising from the
working class of people, he began his career
in service to America as an Air Force Intel-
ligence Officer, returned home to enlist in the
Toledo Police Division where he was seriously
wounded in a gun battle, losing his right eye,
and then faced recasting his life.
He pursued wide ranging interests, choosing
to lead a community-focused life with innumer-
able generous works. He chose to take the
helm as Chair of the then beleaguered Lucas
County Democratic Party. He built it into the
most successful county party in the state of
Ohio at the time, drawing forth new leadership
down to the precinct level. He recruited a new
generation of idealistic candidates to serve the
region. Bill served as Executive Director of the
Democratic Party from 1967 to 1970 and was
Chairman of the Democratic Party from 1970
to 1984.
Bill then built again—by acquiring the
TolTest Company and transforming it into a
highly successful Toledo company, anchoring
its headquarters in then job-short Downtown
Toledo, just blocks away from where he had
been wounded in the line of duty.
Our community has benefitted
intergenerationally from Bill’s wisdom and
community-minded life. His business acumen
and philanthropy in education and other fields
kept building Toledo forward even during the
toughest economic times.
Bill will be remembered for his dedication to
his family, and we offer his children Mike,
Kathy, Beth, Pat, and Kris, his 14 grand-
children and 7 great-grandchildren, his brother
Regis and sisters Sheila, Theresa and Ann,
and his friends our prayers and hope that they
find comfort in the wonderful memories of
what Bill had meant to so many who treasured
his life and valued his pursuits.
May his loved ones gain strength to endure
from the example he set—to triumph again
and again over adversity. His relentless spirit
and good works now form part of the precious
character of our community.
I thank Bill Boyle for sharing his extraor-
dinary life with us.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 25TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF SAFE KIDS NORTH
CAROLINA
HON. DAVID E. PRICE
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize the 25th anniver-
sary of Safe Kids North Carolina. Housed
within the North Carolina Department of Insur-
ance (NCDOI), Safe Kids was founded in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10MY8.001 E10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E574 May 10, 2019
1994 with the mission of preventing uninten-
tional child injuries, which are the number one
cause of death for children in North Carolina
and the United States.
Today, the organization leads a state-wide
network of 48 local Safe Kids coalitions rep-
resenting children’s hospitals, health depart-
ments, fire departments, EMS services and
non-profits. This network gives Safe Kids
North Carolina a strong presence to provide
injury prevention services to communities
throughout the state. It is the largest Safe Kids
Worldwide state coalition in the United States
One of Safe Kids’ focus is ensuring parents
keep their children safe on the road. Their net-
work of local coalitions held over 100 car seat
check events last year and operates 96 per-
manent car seat inspection stations to make
sure car seats are properly installed and to
educate parents on child passenger safety.
Additionally, last fall, in the aftermath of Hurri-
cane Florence, the organization hosted a se-
ries of Child Passenger Safety Seat Take
Back events to help families replace, free of
charge, car seats damaged by the region’s ex-
tensive flooding. At these events, Safe Kids
North Carolina made over 400 car seats avail-
able to needy families in the hardest-hit parts
of the state.
In addition to car safety, Safe Kids North
Carolina has been a pioneer in drug takeback
measures. The organization works with com-
munities and families to decrease the inci-
dence of childhood unintentional medication
ingestions. Since 2010, Safe Kids North Caro-
lina has joined with the North Carolina Bureau
of Investigation, local law enforcement agen-
cies, and community partners in Operation
Medicine Drop, which has resulted in the safe
disposal of more than 152 million pills of un-
wanted medication. In the years since Oper-
ation Medicine Drop began, the organization
has supported over 3,000 events and helped
to establish 250 permanent disposal locations
across North Carolina. In this program, Safe
Kids North Carolina and NCDOI are a model
for other states to follow.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in commending Safe Kids North Carolina
for its work over the past 25 years to protect
the health and safety of all North Carolina chil-
dren.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MARK
BURKE
HON. JOE NEGUSE
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
because on April 22nd Colorado and our na-
tion lost an invaluable public servant—City
Council Member Mark Burke of Breckenridge,
Colorado.
Mark was renowned throughout his commu-
nity for the many things he did to help the
town grow. During his time in office, he
worked tirelessly to better the city’s education
system and protect the community’s natural
environment. He also led efforts to develop
the city’s infrastructure and helped it to re-
cover following the Great Recession.
In addition to being a devoted leader, Mark
was also a loving friend to all those around
him. Many recall numerous times where he
went out of his way to help those in need, or
even just to brighten someone’s day. To Mark,
lending a hand was not a challenge, but an
opportunity.
Mark’s love of life and those he shared it
with fundamentally changed my home state of
Colorado and our entire nation for the better.
His leadership and devotion to others brought
changes to his community that will be enjoyed
for years to come. I hope others in this body
and throughout this nation will join me in re-
membering Mark and the tremendous service
he gave to his community and country.
f
HONORING JAMES HAMMOND FOR
HIS SELFLESS DEVOTION TO
CIVIL RIGHTS AND SERVICE TO
OUR COUNTRY
HON. KATHY CASTOR
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in admiration and respect to honor
the life of true civil rights champion, James
Hammond. Retired Lt. Col. U.S. Army James
Hammond was born on November 11th—Vet-
erans Day, a fitting beginning for a man who
would give so much to our state and our coun-
try. A pioneering civil rights leader, Mr. Ham-
mond helped shape my hometown of Tampa
and we will remember his legacy for the
stands he took, the differences he made and
the lives he touched.
Born in Tampa, FL, Mr. Hammond grad-
uated from Middleton High School and later
attended Hampton University earning a degree
in electrical engineering. He served his coun-
try in the U.S. Army in Texas, Germany, Eng-
land and Washington, rising all the way to the
rank of lieutenant colonel. While serving in the
Army he created the Hammond Electric Com-
pany. He became Tampa’s first African-Amer-
ican, licensed, class-A electrical contractor. He
would go on to use his experience in business
to help create the Tampa Hillsborough Action
Plan—working to bring affordable housing and
business incubators to underserved areas.
Mr. Hammond served as the First Commis-
sioner of Community Relations for the City of
Tampa. In that role he was tasked with work-
ing towards racial equality during the mid-60s.
He worked to bring people together, while
constantly pushing our community to improve.
His work led to more training and jobs for Afri-
can-Americans in city government. He
partnered with U.S. Congressman Sam Gib-
bons to secure a federal grant to create our
county’s first preschool program. He worked to
integrate Tampa’s downtown businesses.
Where there was discrimination, he worked for
change; where there was injustice, he worked
to overcome it; and where there was an op-
portunity to improve the lives of his neighbors,
he seized on it.
Mr. Hammond’s commitment to education
lasted throughout his life. He and his beloved
wife Evelyne established a scholarship fund at
their alma mater, Hampton University. At the
elementary school named for him, students
and families would often see him at school
events. As Hammond Elementary School prin-
cipal Sheri Norkas described, ‘‘He would tell
the students to repeat after him, and they hap-
pily repeated, ‘I will be somebody.’ ’’
Mr. Hammond was part of the fabric of the
Tampa community, helping improve lives
every day. He served as Chairman of the Civil
Service Board, District Chairman Boy Scouts
of America, Board of Director Member of The
Greater Tampa Urban League, the Greater
Tampa Chamber of Commerce and Commu-
nity Federal Savings and Loan Association.
He was a life member of Kappa Alpha Psi
Fraternity and the NAACP. He has been hon-
ored on this floor before, when my friend Con-
gressman ALCEE HASTINGS proclaimed May
4th as National James A. Hammond Day.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of America, the
citizens of Florida and my neighbors across
Tampa Bay, I am proud to honor James Ham-
mond for his courage and selfless devotion to
the people in our country and our community.
The time and energy he put in to improving
the lives of every person he met are un-
matched. Today, we all pledge to carry on his
work and practice what he preached, the
‘‘Three P’s’’ of patience, persistence and posi-
tive thinking. He lifted up others and inspired
our greater Tampa community to bridge our
differences for the benefit of all. He walked
humbly and was full of grace.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF AMADOR VAL-
LEY HIGH SCHOOL’S ‘‘WE THE
PEOPLE’’ TEAM
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize the students of
Amador Valley High School (AVHS) in my
congressional district, who competed in the
national We the People competition held right
here in Washington, D.C. I am proud to report
that its We the People competition team took
second place out of 56 participating groups.
The We the People competition is held an-
nually. Teams come to Washington, D.C. to
compete in mock congressional hearings that
test the high school students’ knowledge of
U.S. history and the Constitution. I am thor-
oughly impressed with the participation, dedi-
cation, and knowledge of AVHS students re-
garding our history, government, and political
system. The students displayed exceptional
commitment and love of history and civics.
They are truly a model for students across the
country.
I also want to recognize their teacher,
Stacey Sklar, who worked tirelessly to provide
guidance, organize the team and prepare the
students in winning the statewide competition
this winter and place second in the national
competition. And I also want to commend
Cheryl Cook-Kallio for her resounding efforts
as the California state coordinator for the We
the People program.
Madam Speaker, again I congratulate AVHS
and their students from the We the People
program. I want to take this opportunity to list
the members of the team: Shurthi Chandran,
Esha Chawla, Sandra Chen, Emma Garman,
Prerita Govil, Robin Hwang, Kate Inman,
Kavya Katragadda, Quincy Kumfert, Matthew
Lyou, Gabrielle Mirsky, Trent Moca, Nicole
Park, Andrew Pereira, Vanshaj Singhania,
Jessica Stubbs, Emil Tu, Evan Yang, Zoe
Yao, and John Yi.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY8.002 E10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E575
May 10, 2019
RECOGNIZING COACH PATRICK
FAIN DYE FOR HIS SERVICE TO
ALABAMA
HON. BRADLEY BYRNE
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Coach Patrick Fain Dye for his long,
successful career representing our state.
As head coach of the Auburn University
football team from 1981 to 1992, Coach Dye
elevated the program to new heights, com-
piling a record of 99–39–4 and winning South-
eastern Conference championships in 1983,
1987, 1988, and 1989. He received South-
eastern Conference Coach of the Year honors
in 1983, 1987, and 1998. Coach Dye’s 1983
Auburn Tigers team, one of the state’s great-
est in our proud football history, ended the
season ranked No. 1 by the New York Times
after winning its final ten games.
Coach Dye also served as Auburn’s Ath-
letics Director from 1981 to 1991, a tenure
marked by the successful relocation in 1989 of
the annual Iron Bowl to Auburn’s Jordan-Hare
Stadium from Legion Field in Birmingham.
That monumental Iron Bowl, the first played in
Auburn in decades, was a 28–18 victory for
the Tigers. It was appropriate that in 2005 the
field at Jordan-Hare Stadium was renamed
Pat Dye Field in his honor.
During Coach Dye’s head coaching career,
which included early stints at East Carolina
University and the University of Wyoming, he
compiled an overall record of 153–62–5 and a
bowl record of 7–2–1. For his accomplish-
ments, he was inducted into the College Foot-
ball Hall of Fame in 2005.
When interviewing for the head coach posi-
tion at Auburn, Coach Dye was asked how
long it would take him to beat the University
of Alabama, where he had previously served
as an assistant coach under the legendary
Paul ‘‘Bear’’ Bryant. His response of ‘‘60 min-
utes’’ was representative of the confidence
and grit that endeared him to his players and
the Auburn family. His promise came true in
his second season, ending a nine-year Ala-
bama win streak.
The Auburn family’s love for Coach Dye
continues to this day. He was a father figure
to so many of his players over the years, and
his legacy has continued to grow through the
years with his work in the Auburn community
and his philanthropic activities. To this day
Coach Dye remains close with so many of his
players and is a beloved figure in the state of
Alabama and beyond.
I thank Coach Dye for his distinguished
years of service to Auburn University and the
people of Alabama. War Eagle.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF WORLD
LUPUS DAY
HON. ALBIO SIRES
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. SIRES. Madam Speaker, according to
the Lupus Foundation of America, lupus im-
pacts an estimated 1.5 million Americans and
at least five million people globally. Lupus is
an autoimmune disease that disproportionately
affects young women, particularly women of
color, and can be characterized in part by
swelling, fatigue, hair loss, chronic pain, fever,
sores, cognitive impairment, and kidney prob-
lems.
On World Lupus Day, it is important to
renew our commitment to finding a cause and
cure for this often-debilitating disease. The
United States is home to some of the world’s
leading medical research institutions, and con-
tinued investment in these research efforts is
essential to groundbreaking discoveries that
will allow individuals suffering from incurable
diseases, such as lupus, to live more com-
fortable, disease-free lives.
I am happy to bring a greater awareness to
this disease and hope that the international
community can work in coordination towards
gaining a better understanding of the causes,
symptoms, and treatment options for lupus pa-
tients around the world.
f
CONGRATULATING JAIL HILL INN
FOR WINNING FIRST PLACE IN
THE TRAVELERS’ CHOICE
AWARD FOR TRIPADVISOR IN
THE UNITED STATES
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Jail Hill Inn for winning first
place in the Travelers’ Choice Award for
TripAdvisor in the United States, and for being
named second place globally for the bed-and-
breakfast/inn category.
The brick building where Jail Hill Inn oper-
ates today has been around for 140 years and
originally served as a jail until 1977. The Jail
Hill Inn was lovingly restored and revitalized
by its owner, Matthew Carroll, and has been
a hotel for the last 17 years. The hotel has six
luxurious rooms complete with a fireplace, wet
bar, king-size bed, high-end linens and a
Bluetooth-connected sound system. Those
who stay in all six of the rooms are dubbed
‘‘repeat offenders’’ for their frequent visits to
the inn. Galena’s historic Main Street and
downtown area are only a short walk away
and provides guests with easy access to all
Galena has to offer. I commend Matthew Car-
roll for creating an excellent stop for visitors
hoping to catch a glimpse of some of the
beauty our region has to offer and look for-
ward to hearing about the Jail Hill Inn’s future
successes.
It is because of creative entrepreneurs like
Matthew Carroll that I am especially proud to
serve Illinois’ 17th Congressional District.
Madam Speaker, I would like to again formally
congratulate the Jail Hill Inn for its rise to the
top of TripAdvisor’s Travelers’ Choice Awards.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF REV.
TAMMY GARRETT–WILLIAMS
HON. JOE NEGUSE
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I rise today,
because last month the state of Colorado and
our nation suffered the tremendous loss of
Reverend Tammy Garrett-Williams.
Reverend Garrett-Williams was a civil rights
activist whose ceaseless pursuit of justice for
every member of our society made her a hero
and icon in Denver and across Colorado.
Reverend Garrett-Williams spent her life
fighting for criminal justice reform. She was a
leader of the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People, Vice-President
for Political Affairs for the Greater Metro Den-
ver Ministerial Alliance, and founder of the
Above Waters Project which works with in-
mates and former inmates to help them re-
integrate into society after incarceration.
Throughout her life, Reverend Garrett-Wil-
liams put herself forward as a beacon of hope
for her community; an exemplar of all the
good that can come through the pursuit of jus-
tice, and fairness, and wholehearted dedica-
tion to the progress of our society—a progress
which she fought to ensure left no one behind.
She demonstrated a commitment to her com-
munity that placed her on the front lines of
change, and she never shied from the chal-
lenges we face, instead insisting on lifting oth-
ers with her as she climbed.
I send my prayers to the Reverend’s moth-
er, two sons and granddaughter.
May Rev. Tammy Garrett-Williams’ life in-
spire those of us who remain to stand and
fight, as she always did, for a society of hope,
possibility, and prosperity.
f
COMMEMORATING THE CHINESE
RAILROAD WORKERS ON THE
150TH ANNIVERSARTY OF THE
TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILROAD
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Ms. MENG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize and honor the nearly 12,000 Chi-
nese railroad workers who tirelessly worked
on the construction of the First Trans-
continental Railroad.
As you may know, today marks the historic
150th Anniversary of the completion of the
Transcontinental Railroad. The Trans-
continental Railroad has long been considered
one of the most remarkable engineering feats
of the 19th century. After its completion, the
railroad reduced cross-country travel time from
six months to a single week—facilitating a new
era of commerce; bringing the country closer
together in the aftermath of the Civil War; and
unleashing the unlimited potential of our na-
tion.
But, too often in our conversations sur-
rounding it, we emphasis the economic bene-
fits; too often we forget to acknowledge the
nearly 12,000 Chinese immigrants who made
these benefits possible.
Madam Speaker, these workers endured
both the arduous physical labor of constructing
a railroad and the emotional trauma of being
discriminated. They were given the most dif-
ficult, dangerous jobs, and were paid lower
wages than other workers. While working in
the Sierras, Chinese workers hung in baskets,
2,000 feet above raging rivers, to blast into the
impenetrable granite mountain—to make way
for laying the tracks.
Despite these conditions, the Chinese rail-
road workers were considered indispensable
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10MY8.005 E10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E576 May 10, 2019
and were respected for their work ethic and
discipline. Above all, these workers formed
one of the first organized labor movements in
the United States for better living wages and
work conditions, which ultimately opened
doors for future generations.
This is why I introduced a resolution in Con-
gress since 2014 to recognize their important
contributions and the dangerous risks they
faced in the process. It is important for us to
commemorate their efforts and share their sto-
ries, so that their role in America’s history is
not forgotten. After all, their stories helped cre-
ate the space needed for today’s growing con-
versations on Asian American diversity and in-
clusion.
Madam Speaker, I believe today’s celebra-
tion is not only about recognizing the many
contributions the Asian American community
has made—and continues to make—but it is
also a step towards weaving the story of Asian
Americans into the greater American tapestry.
I am thankful for the indelible mark they left in
the growth of our nation—and hope their con-
tributions are further honored for the next 150
years.
f
IN CELEBRATION OF THE 35TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF SAWTOOTHS AND
OTHER RANGES OF IMAGINA-
TION: CONTEMPORARY ART
FROM IDAHO
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the 35th anniversary of Sawtooths
and Other Ranges of Imagination: Contem-
porary Art from Idaho.
In 1983–84, the Smithsonian American Art
Museum (SAAM) featured an exhibition titled
Sawtooths and Other Ranges of Imagination:
Contemporary Art from Idaho that exclusively
showcased artwork by acclaimed Idaho artists.
The exhibition was shown at SAAM and then
at the Boise Art Museum. Curated by Barbara
Shissler Nosanow from the Smithsonian, the
exhibition was realized thanks to the strong in-
fluence of Louise McClure, wife of U.S. Sen-
ator Jim McClure (Idaho).
Louise, Senator McClure, Barbara, and one
of Senator McClure’s staff toured Idaho in a
five-seat plane, stopping in at least five loca-
tions to jury entries submitted by Idaho artists.
The opening reception featured Idaho food, in-
cluding a special potato chip made by Ore-
Idaho and fresh huckleberries.
In 1991, President George H.W. Bush ap-
pointed Louise to the National Council on the
Arts, the body that oversees the National En-
dowment for the Arts. She helped guide the
National Endowment for the Arts through a
challenging period during her six-year term of
service. In addition to this important role in
arts policy, Louise also advanced the arts in
Idaho, including service on the Lionel Hamp-
ton International Jazz Festival Board, Boise
State Public Radio Community Advisory
Board, Boise Philharmonic, Women’s and
Children’s Alliance, and many others. Louise’s
work has supported and fostered a strong arts
culture in the capital city that continues today.
In 2010, Idaho Governor C.L. ‘‘Butch’’ Otter
honored Louise and Jim by bestowing the
Lifetime Achievement Award at the Governor’s
Awards in the Arts.
On May 15, 2019, the James A. and Louise
McClure Center for Public Policy Research,
along with the University of Idaho’s College of
Art and Architecture, will partner with the
Boise Art Museum to host a reception cele-
brating the 35th anniversary of this exhibition
and the policymakers who value and support
the arts, including Louise McClure.
There is no question that Senator McClure
had a huge influence on me and my political
career. I strive every day to represent Idaho in
the manner which he did, and Louise has al-
ways been a close, personal friend of Kathy
and mine. It is truly an honor to recognize her
today and thank her for all she has done for
Idaho.
f
BLACK MATERNAL HEALTH
CAUCUS
SPEECH OF
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, May 9, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, the United
States holds the worst maternal mortality rate
of any country in the developed world: every
year, approximately 700 women die from preg-
nancy-related complications.
This rate is three times as high as Canada’s
and six times as high as Scandinavia’s.
In Great Britain, a man is more likely to die
while his partner is pregnant than she is.
In the United States, however, a woman
today is 50 percent more likely to die in child-
birth than her own mother was.
And the biggest risk factor in dying from
childbirth is being black.
A recent CDC study found that 60 percent
of pregnancy-related deaths in recent years
could have been prevented.
Title X family planning clinics play a key role
in preventing these deaths by helping women
avoid and terminate unwanted pregnancies.
Given the particular danger of pregnancy,
this care saves women’s lives.
However, the administration’s proposed gag
rule would bar Title X providers from offering
comprehensive reproductive healthcare.
If this rule goes into effect, maternal mor-
tality rates will rise.
Racial disparities in healthcare will worsen.
And more families will be needlessly ripped
apart.
f
RECOGNIZING FIRST BAPTIST
BRYAN BUSINESS MEN’S BIBLE
CLASS
HON. BILL FLORES
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. FLORES. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the First Baptist Bryan’s Business
Men’s Bible Class during the 100th anniver-
sary of their organization.
During World War I, Dr. Jonathan Held, the
pastor of First Baptist Church, was encour-
aged by Brazos Valley women to address the
challenges facing the community. On February
9, 1919, Dr. Held assembled a group of 15
men at the Queen Theatre in Downtown Bryan
to share the message of Jesus Christ.
At that time, the precedent for their meet-
ings was set. Beginning with two hymns, the
program is followed by prayer, a lesson, bene-
diction, attendance, and open discussion.
Teaching responsibilities are shared by four
individuals and the Explore the Bible series is
the basis for all the lessons.
In 1927, the group moved to the First Bap-
tist Bryan’s church facilities. As the group ap-
proached its 50th anniversary, the weekly
Bible lessons began to be broadcast on the
radio each Sunday. These broadcasts have in-
creased the reach of the lessons as folks who
are unable to attend can participate by listen-
ing.
Since that time, the Business Men’s Bible
Class has grown to over 300 members of
varying religious denominations committed to
upholding the group’s mission. Meeting every
Sunday, the group gathers to facilitate more
Bible study and share the story of Jesus
Christ to all people and deepen the faith of all
those who know Him.
Madam Speaker, the Business Men’s Bible
Class has had a deep impact in the Brazos
Valley since their organization in 1919. Their
service to our community and commitment to
spreading God’s message cannot be over-
stated.
I have requested that a United States flag
be flown over our Nation’s Capitol to honor the
work and legacy of the First Baptist Bryan
Business Men’s Bible Class.
May God bless its membership and the
United States of America.
As I close today, I urge all Americans to
continue praying for our country, for our vet-
erans, for our military men and women who
protect us, and for our first responders who
keep us safe at home.
f
PIKE COUNTY FARM BUREAU 100
ANNIVERSARY
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the 100th anniversary of the Pike
County Farm Bureau.
On May 10, 1918, leaders in Pike County
met with the goal of helping farmers and our
strong agriculture community in west-central Il-
linois.
Exactly one hundred years later, the Pike
County Farm Bureau continues to thrive sup-
porting rural communities by educating our
farmers and providing them with best practices
to succeed.
It’s a busy time of year for our farmers who
are in the middle of planting season. As we
have seen heavy rains and flooding, the Pike
County Farm Bureau continues to generate
awareness to support those in the agriculture
community who are in need.
With over 2,000 active members, the Pike
County Farm Bureau is engrained in our com-
munity and their commitment and dedication is
clear to our farmers.
As we celebrate the last 100 years, I want
to thank the Pike County Farm Bureau for
their unwavering support of our farmers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10MY8.008 E10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E577
May 10, 2019
Their support and guidance will lead the
Pike County farming community into the next
100 years.
f
RECOGNIZING NURSE FAMILY
PARTNERSHIP
HON. JOE NEGUSE
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in honor of the holidays our nation is recog-
nizing this week—National Nurses Week and
Mother’s Day.
To recognize these auspicious occasions, I
want to highlight the work of an incredible or-
ganization founded in my home state of Colo-
rado—Nurse-Family Partnership.
An evidence-based program, N.F.P. works
in 42 states sending registered nurses to the
homes of vulnerable expectant mothers, from
pregnancy through the child’s second birthday.
Mothers served by N.F.P. in Colorado have
a median annual income of $7,500, dem-
onstrating that this program serves the most
vulnerable of our communities’ mothers. Most
importantly, for every $1 invested in Colorado,
N.F.P. saves nearly $8—that’s a nearly 8
times return on our nation’s investment. And
those results are being duplicated across our
nation, with mothers in Alabama and Oregon,
Oklahoma and Virginia, and nearly every-
where in between.
I want to thank N.F.P. for their commitment
to families, and in particular I want to recog-
nize the nurses who make these partnerships
possible and ensure that our most vulnerable
mothers will be supported this Mother’s Day.
f
IN HONOR OF PURDUE
UNIVERSITY’S 150TH BIRTHDAY
HON. JAMES R. BAIRD
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. BAIRD. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor my alma mater, Purdue University, as
we celebrate 150 years of ‘‘giant leaps’’ and
academic excellence.
Since Purdue’s first classes with six instruc-
tors and 39 students in 1874, upcoming gen-
erations have been equipped to push bound-
aries in innovation and entrepreneurship.
Now, with more than 200 areas of under-
graduate study and over 69 graduate dis-
ciplines, students continue to pave the way for
tremendous advances in medicine, agriculture,
space exploration, engineering, and numerous
other professions.
Through partnerships with world-renowned
programs like NASA and serving the manufac-
turing sector with technical assistance pro-
grams, Purdue’s mission to increase economic
prosperity touches every aspect of life in Indi-
ana and across the nation.
I am proud that this university stands as a
pillar of excellence in our community.
Since its 1869 groundbreaking, Purdue Uni-
versity has evolved in response to a changing
world, but one thing remains the same: a com-
mitment to integrity and service that has been
embodied since the very beginning.
I join all current and former Boilermakers in
wishing Purdue a very happy 150th birthday.
f
WELCOMING THE MT. CARMEL
HIGH SCHOOL BAND TO THE U.S.
CAPITOL
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect and honor that I rise today to
welcome the Mt. Carmel High School Band to
our nation’s capital. They are performing this
afternoon in front of the United States Capitol
to showcase their impressive musical talent,
and drill team. This exemplary group of stu-
dents are a fine representation of Pennsylva-
nia’s legacy of educational and musical excel-
lence.
I have a great appreciation for the hours
these students have dedicated to preparing for
their concert. I am certain that they will im-
press us all and be a highlight for many other
visitors to the Capitol today. On behalf of the
United States House of Representatives, and
the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth Congres-
sional District, I proudly welcome the Mt. Car-
mel High School Band to Capitol Hill and ex-
tend my best to them in their performance.
f
REMEMBERING HUBERT PAUL
ADAMS, SR.
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
remembrance of Hubert Paul Adams, a World
War II veteran who friends and family will miss
dearly.
Mr. Adams was born on April 26, 1921, in
Robstown, Texas. When World War II began,
he proudly defended our nation in the U.S.
Army.
When he returned home, he began his ca-
reer at Questor Drilling. People in the commu-
nity knew Mr. Adams for his dedication to his
profession, and after 42 years, he ended his
career having attained the position of Drilling
Superintendent.
Mr. Adams leaves behind his wife of 47
years, Ruth, along with children, grand-
children, and great grandchildren. His loved
ones will remember him for his sense of
humor and his Texas pride as a Dallas Cow-
boys fan.
During this time of mourning, I would like to
extend my heartfelt condolences to her and
the rest of their loved ones.
f
COMMENDING SHERIFF JASON
ARD
HON. GARRET GRAVES
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to commend Sheriff Jason Ard for
winning the Destination Zero Officer Traffic
Safety Award. Talking about change is easy,
as this body well knows. Making change hap-
pen is a different thing altogether. Sheriff Ard
earned this recognition by taking decisive ac-
tion to solve a real problem affecting the per-
formance of his deputies. In January 2017,
Sheriff Ard was advised that Livingston Parish
Sheriff’s Office had a ‘bad driving’ problem
and that his deputies were spending too much
on vehicle maintenance and repairs, having
at-fault accidents, and dealing with crash inju-
ries and even lawsuit settlements. So he
stepped in and initiated change. First, he iden-
tified those among his deputies with safe driv-
ing records and rewarded them with an extra
week off. He also installed GPS devices on all
Sheriff’s office vehicles and required all depu-
ties to complete the NADA pursuit driving
class—some of his drivers ended up becom-
ing trainers. The result? An immediate 28 per-
cent reduction in at fault crashes, a 62 percent
reduction in damage costs, a 25 percent re-
duction in lawsuits, and an 87 percent reduc-
tion in lawsuit settlement payments. Sheriff
Ard’s leadership and decisive action serve as
a model for law enforcement teams across the
country that may be facing the same issues.
I thank him for his service to our community
and to the State of Louisiana—and for setting
the example.
f
HONORING NATIONAL
CORRECTIONS OFFICERS WEEK
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor our nation’s correctional
workers during National Correctional Officers
Week. Twenty-five years ago this week, Presi-
dent Ronald Reagan issued a proclamation
designating the first week in May as National
Correctional Officers Week. He did so ‘‘in rec-
ognition of the contributions of correctional of-
ficers to our Nation.’’ I believe it is important
to continue to recognize the contributions and
critical work that correctional officers engage
in on a daily basis, often risking their own
safety in the course of carrying out their du-
ties.
It is estimated there are over 2 million peo-
ple incarcerated in jails and prisons throughout
the United States. Correctional officers are
tasked with keeping these inmates and our
communities safe, as well as the thousands of
staff that support the operation of our deten-
tion facilities. Correctional officers are an inte-
gral part of our criminal justice system and
play a key role in helping maintain public safe-
ty.
Equally important are correctional officers’
interactions with prisoners, the vast majority of
whom will be released at some point. Correc-
tional officers are partners in our efforts to re-
duce recidivism by providing prisoners with the
tools and resources that they need to succeed
once released from custody. Correctional offi-
cers are the individuals who spend the most
time with the prisoner population and investing
in them so they can help inmates become pro-
ductive members of society is a worthwhile
endeavor.
I wish to take this opportunity to thank the
over 400,000 correctional officers in the United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10MY8.012 E10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E578 May 10, 2019
States for the often-thankless job that they do.
I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring
these key public servants.
f
RECOGNIZING BASCOM PALMER
EYE INSTITUTE
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, today, I
would like to speak about South Florida’s
Bascom Palmer Eye Institute. Consistently
recognized as the best eye hospital in the na-
tion, Bascom Palmer treats over 250,000 pa-
tients every year at its five centers in Miami,
Coral Gables, Plantation, Naples, and Palm
Beach Gardens.
In addition to serving as a national model
for excellent eye care, Bascom Palmer acts as
the Department of Ophthalmology at the Uni-
versity of Miami.
The center provides students with the op-
portunity to work with world-class doctors and
conduct innovative research to improve patient
care and treatment methods.
Eye care is a delicate science.
The doctors, students, and staff at Bascom
Palmer demonstrate every day not only their
vast knowledge of the constantly developing
field of ophthalmology, but also their enor-
mous compassion for patients who suffer from
blindness, glaucoma, ocular cancer, and other
debilitating conditions.
It was a joy to partner with this stellar team
of medical professionals when I led the Uni-
versity of Miami.
I am grateful to know that the eye health of
South Florida is in good hands with Bascom
Palmer leading the field.
f
CONGRATULATING SBA CAPITAL
REGION SMALL BUSINESS PER-
SON OF THE YEAR CHRIS
MARTELL
HON. PAUL TONKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. TONKO. Madam Speaker, I rise to con-
gratulate Chris Martell, President of Druthers
Brewing Company of Saratoga Springs, on
being named this year’s Small Business Per-
son of the Year by the Syracuse regional of-
fice of the U.S. Small Business Administration.
Founded in 2009, Druthers is a craft beer
success story in New York’s 20th Congres-
sional District. This thriving company has
opened three brew pubs in our region in less
than ten years, serving award-winning beer
and inspiring all who take smart chances and
invest their energy and passion into their work.
On behalf of their many patrons and fans
across New York’s Capital Region, including
those of us who enjoy their beer cheese and
hamburgers, I extend my heartfelt congratula-
tions to Chris and the entire team who make
Druthers Brewing Company so special. I am
honored to share the accomplishments of
Druthers during National Small Business
Week, and I hope that Chris’s passion and vi-
sion ignite in us a renewed appreciation for
supporting our local small business commu-
nity.
f
HIPPIE BOTS OF CLIFTON MIDDLE
SCHOOL, MONROVIA, CALIFORNIA
HON. GRACE F. NAPOLITANO
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Madam Speaker, I con-
gratulate the Hippie Bots of Clifton Middle
School in Monrovia, California, who became
the first middle school robotics team to win the
FIRST Tech Challenge Los Angeles-Southern
California Regional Championship.
This extraordinary accomplishment made
them the first middle school team in our region
to qualify for the World Championship. At the
World Championship in Houston, Texas on
April 17–20, the team faced adversity yet
showed its resolve by battling back into con-
tention on the final day of competition. Al-
though the students did not win, they truly
made Monrovia and our entire San Gabriel
Valley proud with the way they conducted
themselves and represented their city through-
out the season.
We send our many congratulations to So-
phia Adkins, Evan Asti, Lucas Corsi, Christian
Figueroa, Alex He, Ian Hughes, Dylan
Polanco, Caroline Squire, and Miles Wilson,
as well as their teacher, Paul Flores. They
have made us very proud; and we wish them
the very best in the future.
f
H.R. 986, THE PROTECTING AMERI-
CANS WITH PREEXISTING CONDI-
TIONS ACT OF 2019 AND H.R. 2157,
A COMPREHENSIVE SUPPLE-
MENTAL APPROPRIATIONS BILL
TO HELP AMERICAN COMMU-
NITIES RECOVER FROM RECENT
NATURAL DISASTERS
HON. TONY CÁRDENAS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. CÁRDENAS. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to express my support for H.R. 986, the
Protecting Americans with Preexisting Condi-
tions Act. For too long this Administration has
undermined and attacked the care of our most
vulnerable Americans and perpetuated unjust
barriers to treatment. By passing this bill my
colleagues are fulfilling the will of the Amer-
ican people, who used their voice to tell
Washington that these partisan attacks on the
Affordable Care Act were unacceptable.
The American people also care about pro-
tecting the only planet we have. Climate
change continues to threaten the safety of
Americans every year by fueling the frequency
and severity of natural disasters. In my state
of California, the fire season has turned into a
year-long ordeal. People in California have
lost so much as these fires get worse and
worse. We’ve lost lives, homes, communities,
and livelihoods. H.R. 2157 is another step to-
wards recovery. Among other things, it pro-
vides funds for emergency forest restoration,
to farmers struggling with crop and livestock
losses due to wildfires and other disasters,
and for legal services for people who need
legal help during the recovery period. H.R.
2157 provides needed relief for Californians
and all Americans, including those living in
Puerto Rico and other territories devastated by
hurricanes.
Importantly, this bill also prevents Defense
funds from being used to construct an unnec-
essary and ineffective wall along the southern
border. When we have real problems to fix,
we cannot waste a penny on an unnecessary
slogan. Instead, we need to be addressing the
healthcare needs of Americans and ensure
they can get back on their feet in the wake of
natural disasters, as we have done today.
As always, I want to take the time to thank
those who have worked tirelessly to improve
our nation’s healthcare, environment, and re-
sponse to natural disasters.
f
RECOGNIZING THE EXCEPTIONAL
SERVICE AND CONTRIBUTIONS
OF DURAID ANTONE TO THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND ORANGE COUNTY, CALI-
FORNIA
HON. HARLEY ROUDA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the work of my constituent, Duraid
Antone, who recently received an Ellis Island
Medal of Honor for a lifetime of service to our
nation.
Ellis Island Medals of Honor are presented
each year to individuals who have distin-
guished themselves through inspired service
to our nation and accomplishments in their
field. Past recipients of the Ellis Island Medals
of Honor include seven former presidents, Su-
preme Court justices, and many other illus-
trious American leaders.
Mr. Antone was born in Baghdad, Iraq, and
moved to the United States when he was six
years old. As a young man, he was called to
serve as an active-duty intelligence officer in
the United States Army. He later found suc-
cess in the medical device industry, starting a
company in Newport Beach, California, lo-
cated in my congressional district.
Mr. Antone has lived the American Dream.
He has proven, like so many before him, that
if you come to our nation, embrace our ideals,
and work hard, you can build a life here in the
United States of America.
I commend Mr. Antone for his many accom-
plishments in service of our nation and our Or-
ange County community, and I ask all Mem-
bers to join me in congratulating him on his re-
ceipt of a 2019 Ellis Island Medal of Honor.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF JAMIE LAND’S
SERVICE TO KENTUCKY
HON. BRETT GUTHRIE
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. GUTHRIE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Chief Jamie Land of Elizabeth-
town, Kentucky, for his retirement from the
Elizabethtown Police Department. Chief Land
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10MY8.017 E10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E579
May 10, 2019
has honorably served in the Elizabethtown po-
lice force for over 21 years, and he will be
missed when he retires at the end of this
month.
Before joining the Elizabethtown Police De-
partment in 1998, Chief Land served as a mili-
tary policeman in the United States Marine
Corps. Land’s distinguished career at the de-
partment started as a patrol officer, and he
has held many roles at the as he has risen
through the ranks, including detective, a lead-
er of the police department’s special response
team, patrol sergeant, and deputy chief of op-
erations. Throughout his tenure with the Eliza-
bethtown Police Department, Chief Land has
dedicated himself to his community and prov-
en himself to be a trusted leader.
I thank Chief Lind for his years of service to
the Elizabethtown community. I wish Chief
Land and his wife Brandi nothing but the best
in his retirement.
f
RECOGNIZING COMMANDER MARK
GRABOSKI FOR HIS SERVICE IN
THE UNITED STATES COAST
GUARD
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it is my
honor to recognize Commander Mark
Graboski for his retirement as Executive Offi-
cer of the Air Station Traverse City, United
States Coast Guard. Through his exceptional
leadership and steadfast devotion, Mark has
become an indispensable part of Michigan’s
First District.
Mark graduated from the University of Wis-
consin—Madison through the Naval Reserve
Officer Training Corps in 1989 and was com-
missioned as an Ensign in the U.S. Navy. Fol-
lowing deployments in the Western Pacific and
Arabian Gulf, he transitioned to the U.S. Coast
Guard and served in Washington and Ala-
bama. He ultimately landed in Michigan at Air
Station Traverse City, which operates Air Fa-
cilities throughout the Great Lakes region—
performing search and rescue operations and
other critical missions along the entirety of
Lake Michigan and significant portions of
Lakes Superior and Huron.
As Executive Officer and a helicopter pilot,
Graboski led a team of 168 personnel and
three MH–60 helicopters for search and res-
cue operations throughout the Great Lakes
and Midwest. He has accumulated more than
5,600 flight hours, and his decorations include
the Meritorious Service Medal, Air Medal,
three USCG/Navy Commendation Medals, two
USCG Achievement Medals and numerous
unit, campaign, and service awards. His ex-
ceptional leadership skills are reflected in the
excellence of those who have served under
him and the trust placed in him by the people
of Northern Michigan. Commander Graboski’s
constant dedication to the public good is com-
mendable, and the impact of his work on the
people of Northern Michigan cannot be over-
stated.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to recognize
Commander Mark Graboski for his service to
the people of our state. Michiganders can take
great pride in knowing the First District is
home to such a devoted individual. On behalf
of my constituents, I wish Mark all the best in
his future endeavors.
f
HONORING CLAUDIA JACKSON
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and recognize Claudia Jackson, a
Corpus Christi native, for her commitment to
serving Del Mar College and promoting edu-
cation in the community.
Claudia Jackson started her career at Del
Mar College nearly 42 years ago, and in 1977,
became the Director of Public Information. By
2013, thanks to her work ethic and persever-
ance, she rose to become Executive Director
of Strategic Communication and Government
Relations.
During her tenure, the College Relations Of-
fice staff received roughly 100 marketing and
advertising awards, including a Gold Medallion
of Excellence from the National Council for
Marketing and Public Relations.
Ms. Jackson’s leadership was felt through-
out Del Mar College, as she served as a
member of the President’s Executive Team
and was responsible for interacting with local,
state, and national elected officials to discuss
and promote the college’s various needs and
initiatives. Additionally, she represented the
College on the Corpus Christi Chamber of
Commerce Board, and the Mayor’s Inter-
agency Group.
Time and again, Claudia Jackson dem-
onstrated her passion for education, and com-
mitment to the city of Corpus Christi. Ms.
Jackson was named Corpus Christi YWCA
Woman of the Year in Communications in
1993. She received a Distinguished Achieve-
ment Award from the Council for Advance-
ment and Support of Education District IV in
1997.
Claudia Jackson represents the very best of
the 27th District of Texas, and I would like to
extend to her my thanks and appreciation for
her excellent service and devotion to edu-
cation.
f
CELEBRATING AMERICA’S NURSES
FOR NATIONAL NURSE APPRE-
CIATION WEEK
HON. PAUL TONKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. TONKO. Madam Speaker, I rise to cele-
brate National Nurse Appreciation Week.
Since 1993, this week from May 6 through
May 12, ending on Florence Nightingale’s
birthday, has allowed us to express our deep-
est gratitude and admiration toward our
nurses, the beating heart and a major driving
force of America’s healthcare community.
Despite its critical importance to our
healthcare system, nursing continues to face
critical staffing shortages from rapid job growth
and a significant number of nurses approach-
ing retirement—in fact, the American Associa-
tion of Colleges of Nursing projects that we
will need more than 200,000 additional Reg-
istered Nurses by 2026.
Having enough nurses to do the job results
in lower mortality rates, safer conditions for
patients and a decrease in the average stay at
hospitals. The fact is, nurses save lives, make
healthcare safer and more efficient, and pro-
vide us with comfort and compassion during
some of our most painful times.
America’s nurses are also on the front lines
of our nation’s growing opioid epidemic. In
2016, my team and I worked to grant
buprenorphine prescribing privileges to Nurse
Practitioners and Physician Assistants, allow-
ing them to provide needed medication-as-
sisted treatment for opioid use disorder. Since
that expansion, more than 5,000 nurse practi-
tioners and physician assistants have become
waivered providers of medication-assisted
treatment, greatly expanding our treatment ca-
pacity, particularly in rural areas where doctors
can be few and far between. If we invest in
and empower our nursing workforce to their
full potential, they can be powerful agents of
change to help us turn the tide in this epi-
demic.
We must champion and empower our nurs-
ing professionals. This week we celebrate
America’s nurses, whose endless dedication
uplifts our families, heals our neighbors, and
betters our communities.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. NEAL P. DUNN
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I regretfully
missed votes on 5/8. I was forced to return to
my district with the President who was sur-
veying damage from Hurricane Michael. Had I
been present, I would have voted YEA on Roll
Call No. 187, and YEA on Roll Call No. 188.
f
16TH ANNUAL OBSERVANCE OF
WORLD LUPUS DAY
HON. GRACE F. NAPOLITANO
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Madam Speaker, today
marks the 16th annual observance of World
Lupus Day. It serves as a forum for lupus or-
ganizations and advocates to call attention to
the need for increases in funding for medical
research, educational programs, and improved
access to medical care.
Lupus is a chronic inflammatory auto-
immune disease that is highly individualized,
extremely volatile and can affect any organ
system of the body, including the skin, joints,
kidney, brain, heart, lungs, blood and blood
vessels. It currently affects over 300,000
Americans, and there is no known cause or
cure.
There is no limit to lupus and it affects all
nationalities, race, ethnicities, gender and age.
For example, it is the leading cause of kidney
disease, stroke, and premature cardiovascular
disease in young women, and affects woman
9 times more often than men.
With continued commitment to this important
day, I would like to again recognize World
Lupus Day and demonstrate our nation’s con-
cerns for the needs of millions of Americans
and their families affected by lupus.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10MY8.023 E10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E580 May 10, 2019
CONDEMNING ANTI-SEMITIC
VIOLENCE
HON. DUNCAN HUNTER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, May 10, 2019
Mr. HUNTER. Madam Speaker, in the after-
math of the attack at Chabad of Poway on
April 27, 2019, that took place on the last day
of Passover and just months after the attack
at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh, I
rise to strongly condemn antisemitism and to
bring attention to the troubling increase in at-
tacks on Jews.
Just last year, attacks on Jews and Jewish
communities rose to a level that has not been
seen in decades, with offensive language, ac-
tions, damage to property, injuries to people,
and unfortunately, loss of life. There is an in-
crease in anti-Semitic content online and in
print and the rhetoric is becoming more com-
mon place and seemingly more normalized
and accepted by civil society.
Last week was Israel’s recognition of Holo-
caust Remembrance Day. It’s therefore fitting
that we recognize the threat of unchecked
anti-Jewish bigotry and discrimination in light
of one of the world’s worst state sponsored
massacres: the systematic and deliberate,
government-controlled persecution and murder
of six million Jews by the Nazi regime.
At the same time, I stand with the victims of
the attack in Poway and their families, and will
work with those here, and in my community, to
guard against such hateful violence in the fu-
ture.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:30 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10MY8.029 E10MYPT1
D518
Friday, May 10, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
The Senate was not in session and stands ad-
journed until 3 p.m., on Monday, May 13, 2019.
Committee Meetings
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 30 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 2659–2688 and 5 resolutions, H. Res.
372–376 were introduced. Pages H3726–27
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H3728–29
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 1010, to provide that the rule entitled
‘‘Short-Term, Limited Duration Insurance’’ shall
have no force or effect (H. Rept. 116–43, Part 2);
H.R. 1499, to prohibit brand name drug manu-
facturers from compensating generic drug manufac-
turers to delay the entry of a generic drug into the
market, and to prohibit biological product manufac-
turers from compensating biosimilar and inter-
changeable product manufacturers to delay entry of
biosimilar and interchangeable products, and for
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–52, Part 1);
H.R. 987, to amend the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act to provide for Federal Exchange
outreach and educational activities, with an amend-
ment (H. Rept. 116–53, Part 1);
H.R. 312, to reaffirm the Mashpee Wampanoag
Tribe reservation, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–54);
H.R. 965, to promote competition in the market
for drugs and biological products by facilitating the
timely entry of lower-cost generic and biosimilar
versions of those drugs and biological products, with
an amendment (H. Rept. 116–55, Part 1);
H.R. 965, to promote competition in the market
for drugs and biological products by facilitating the
timely entry of lower-cost generic and biosimilar
versions of those drugs and biological products (H.
Rept. 116–55, Part 2);
H.R. 5, to prohibit discrimination on the basis of
sex, gender identity, and sexual orientation, and for
other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–56, Part 1);
H.R. 1500, to require the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau to meet its statutory purpose, and
for other purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–57, Part 1); and
H.R. 299, to amend title 38, United States Code,
to clarify presumptions relating to the exposure of
certain veterans who served in the vicinity of the Re-
public of Vietnam, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–58). Pages H3725–26
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Deutch to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H3685
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Dr. Thomas E. Leuther, Family
Worship Center, Columbia, Missouri. Page H3685
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H3685, H3715
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2019: The
House passed H.R. 2157, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, by a yea-and-nay vote of 257 yeas to 150
nays, Roll No. 202. Pages H3687–H3715
Rejected the Granger motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on Appropriations with instruc-
tions to report the same back to the House forthwith
with an amendment, by a recorded vote of 189 ayes
to 215 noes, Roll No. 201. Pages H3713–14
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10MY9.REC D10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D519
May 10, 2019
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–12, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part B of H. Rept. 116–51, shall
be considered as adopted in the House and in the
Committee of the Whole. The bill, as amended,
shall be considered as an original bill for the purpose
of amendment under the five-minute rule and shall
be considered as read. Pages H3691–H3700
Agreed to:
Radewagen amendment (No. 2 printed in part C
of H. Rept. 116–51) that amends the dollar amount
of nutritional assistance for American Samoa from
$5,000,000 to $18,000,000; Pages H3700–01
Dunn amendment (No. 4 printed in part C of H.
Rept. 116–51) that increases the amount of MilCon
funding for the Air Force by $300,000,000 and the
U.S. Marine Corps and Navy by $385,000,000 to
expedite the rebuild of installations affected by 2018
hurricanes; Pages H3702–03
Cunningham amendment (No. 5 printed in part C
of H. Rept. 116–51) that increases Air Force Oper-
ations and Maintenance by $270 million;
Pages H3703–04
Schrier amendment (No. 7 printed in part C of H.
Rept. 116–51) that limits the matching requirement
for the Specialty Crop Research Initiative;
Pages H3705–06
Axne amendment (No. 9 printed in part C of H.
Rept. 116–51) that increases the Emergency Water-
shed Program by $310 million; Pages H3708–09
Axne amendment (No. 10 printed in part C of H.
Rept. 116–51) that increases the Federal Highway
Administration Emergency Relief Program by $500
million; Pages H3709–10
Perlmutter amendment (No. 1 printed in part C
of H. Rept. 116–51) that increases funding by $5
million for NOAA’s weather forecasting, modeling,
and cloud computing programs, including the Earth
Prediction Innovation Center (by a recorded vote of
247 ayes to 165 noes, Roll No. 197);
Pages H3700, H3710
Sablan amendment (No. 3 printed in part C of H.
Rept. 116–51) that increases funding for waste water
treatment plants impacted by Typhoon Yutu by
$8,800,000 based on EPA cost estimates for repair
and resiliency updated on March 20, 2019 (by a re-
corded vote of 268 ayes to 143 noes, Roll No. 198);
Pages H3701–02, H3710–11
Huffman amendment (No. 6 printed in part C of
H. Rept. 116–51) that prohibits funds in the bill
from being used to enforce regulations requiring
within two years construction of agency relief
projects funded by the Federal Highway Administra-
tion (by a recorded vote of 241 ayes to 168 noes,
Roll No. 199); and Pages H3704–05, H3711–12
Fletcher amendment (No. 8 printed in part C of
H. Rept. 116–51) that shortens the time require-
ment of the publication of rules of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development Community
Development Fund in Public Law 115–123 (by a re-
corded vote of 393 ayes to 20 noes, Roll No. 200).
Pages H3706–08, H3712
H. Res. 357, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 986) and (H.R. 2157) was agreed
to yesterday, May 9th.
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 12 noon on Tuesday, May 14th for Morning Hour
debate. Page H3715
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote and
five recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H3710, H3711,
H3711–12, H3712, H3714, and H3714–15. There
were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 2:08 p.m.
Committee Meetings
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs held a
markup on the State, Foreign Operations, and Re-
lated Programs Appropriations Bill, FY 2020. The
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs
Appropriations Bill, FY 2020 was forwarded to the
full Committee, without amendment.
OPENING UP THE PROCESS:
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MAKING
LEGISLATIVE INFORMATION MORE
TRANSPARENT
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress: Full
Committee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Opening up the
Process: Recommendations for Making Legislative
Information More Transparent’’. Testimony was
heard from Robert Reeves, Deputy Clerk, House of
Representatives; and public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
MAY 13, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10MY9.REC D10MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D520 May 10, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, May 13
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of the nomination of Michael J. Truncale, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas,
and vote on the motion to invoke cloture thereon at 5:30
p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Tuesday, May 14
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: To be announced.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Baird, James R., Ind., E577
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E579
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E575
Byrne, Bradley, Ala., E575
Castor, Kathy, Fla., E574
Cárdenas, Tony, Calif., E578
Cloud, Michael, Tex., E577, E579
Collins, Doug, Ga., E577
Dunn, Neal P., Fla., E579
Flores, Bill, Tex., E576
Graves, Garret, La., E577
Guthrie, Brett, Ky., E578
Hunter, Duncan, Calif., E580
Kaptur, Marcy, Ohio, E573
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E576
Meng, Grace, N.Y., E575
Meuser, Daniel, Pa., E577
Napolitano, Grace F., Calif., E578, E579
Neguse, Joe, Colo., E574, E575, E577
Porter, Katie, Calif., E573
Price, David E., N.C., E573
Rouda, Harley, Calif. E578
Shalala, Donna E., Fla., E576, E578
Simpson, Michael K., Idaho, E576
Sires, Albio, N.J., E575
Steil, Bryan, Wisc., E573
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E574
Tonko, Paul, N.Y., E578, E579
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:03 May 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D10MY9.REC D10MYPT1
