Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H8911
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019 No. 184
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. GOMEZ).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
November 18, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JIMMY
GOMEZ to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
BRING TRANSPARENCY TO DRUG
PRICES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Wisconsin (Mr. STEIL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, families
across southeast Wisconsin are con-
cerned about the rising costs of
healthcare, especially prescription
drug costs. No parent should have to
worry that they cannot afford insulin
or an EpiPen for their child.
We must work together to bring
transparency to drug prices, hold drug
companies accountable, and empower
patients. The Stopping the Pharma-
ceutical Industry from Keeping drugs
Expensive Act, or the SPIKE Act, is a
nonpartisan bill addressing drug pric-
ing.
The SPIKE Act holds drug companies
accountable for their pricing of life-
saving drugs. If a drug manufacturer of
insulin or EpiPens drastically in-
creases its price, the company must
publicly justify its decision to do so.
As a cosponsor of the SPIKE Act, I
will continue fighting to ensure this
bill becomes law.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the House to
bring the SPIKE Act to a vote.
BRING USMCA TO A VOTE
Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, November
30 marks 1 year since President Trump
agreed with Mexico and Canada to cre-
ate the United States-Mexico-Canada
trade agreement, or USMCA.
USMCA is an improved trade agree-
ment with Wisconsin’s largest trading
partners, Canada and Mexico. Mexico
passed USMCA. Canada is ready to rat-
ify it. They are waiting on us.
Generations of Wisconsinites have
dedicated their lives to farming. Our
farmers need our help. Our farmers
need USMCA now more than ever.
Small dairy farms in Wisconsin are
closing. Wisconsin farmers are strug-
gling to cope with low milk prices and
limited access to markets. USMCA
opens dairy markets and allows farm-
ers to sell their milk to Canada.
I have addressed this Chamber mul-
tiple times on the need to get USMCA
across the finish line. Enough is
enough. Bring USMCA to a vote.
TAKE STEPS TO PREPARE BEFORE DISASTER
STRIKES
Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, today, the
House is voting on the Reforming Dis-
aster Recovery Act. This is a non-
partisan bill to help families when dis-
aster strikes.
In Wisconsin, we have seen our fair
share of storms, tornadoes, and flood-
ing. When a storm hits, resources and
assistance must be readily available.
That is why this bill is so important.
We must have a plan in place before
the storm to avoid waste, fraud, and
abuse.
This bill does that. Right now, the
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment, HUD, does not have a codi-
fied process in place to distribute as-
sistance to communities in need. The
bill requires HUD to have a clear proc-
ess in place before disasters strike.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote in favor of the Reforming Disaster
Recovery Act. We cannot always know
where a storm will strike or when it
will hit, but we can take steps to be
prepared and respond.
f
CALL FOR SENATE TO ACT AFTER
FRESNO MASS SHOOTING
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. COSTA) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, it saddens
me once again to hear another mass
shooting has occurred in our country,
this time in my district.
Last night, in Fresno, California, an-
other senseless mass shooting oc-
curred, where four people lost their
lives and six more were injured. This
happened at a family gathering in a
neighborhood not far from the airport
near Fresno, where 35 or more people
were gathered.
Children were present at this mean-
ingless act while they were watching a
football game. While none of the chil-
dren were harmed, certainly their lives
will be changed forever as a result of
the trauma they experienced last
night.
I have reached out to local law en-
forcement, and we are ready to assist
in any way possible. I have spoken with
the mayor and the chief of police.
Certainly, our thoughts and prayers
are with the victims and their families,
but as a community and as a country,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:44 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.000 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8912 November 18, 2019
thoughts and prayers are just not
enough. The daily tragedy of gun vio-
lence continues to inflict terror and vi-
olence on individuals and neighbor-
hoods across our country, and that is a
fact.
The threat to public safety is not
normal, nor should it be seen as accept-
able. It is unacceptable.
My office has been working with
community leaders to identify re-
sources for those affected, such as
counseling, mental health support, vic-
tims’ compensation, and community
outreach.
This is in a neighborhood where a
great deal of Southeast Asian families
live. These are immigrants past and
immigrants present. They came after
the Vietnam war, where they stood
shoulder to shoulder with Americans
fighting in that conflict. They have
been assimilating and contributing to
our community in Fresno and through-
out the valley.
Americans and members of our com-
munity deserve real action to keep
them safe. In February, the House
passed meaningful bipartisan gun safe-
ty legislation that Senator MITCH
MCCONNELL refuses to bring up in the
Senate. This legislation, combined
with State and local efforts, would help
make a difference. It is not a silver
bullet, clearly. Bad term. Let me take
that back because there are way too
many guns and too many bullets out
there.
Republicans and Democrats have
good and different ideas on how to deal
with gun violence in America.
Wouldn’t it be refreshing if the Presi-
dent were to bring us together in a bi-
partisan effort to talk about violence
in America and solutions on how we
deal with violence in America because
no community, no town, no hamlet, re-
gardless of the size, is not impacted by
the gun violence that takes place every
day?
The fact remains that too many
Americans in too many communities
are forced to live in fear. I know. I live
near this downtown community where,
nightly, you can hear guns going off.
Last night, one of the neighbors said
they are fearful of even working on
their car in front of their home or
when people drive by.
Americans should not be forced to
live in that kind of fear in their neigh-
borhoods. It is not right. The Senate
must allow a vote on a bipartisan, com-
monsense gun violence prevention pro-
gram. The House acted on that legisla-
tion 260 days ago—260 days ago.
We must come together in our com-
munity in Fresno. I spoke with the
mayor and talked about figuring out
ways to bring our community together
with local law enforcement agencies
and community organizations to help
us heal.
The question is, how many more
American lives must be lost to sense-
less violence before action is taken?
That is the question we must ask.
I will do everything I can to promote
safety in our neighborhoods.
CELEBRATING MOVE OF USDA TO
HEARTLAND
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, this
past weekend, I had the pleasure of
joining Agriculture Secretary Sonny
Perdue in Kansas City to celebrate the
relocation of two of USDA’s research
agencies to the heartland.
This move will save the country’s
taxpayers hundreds of millions of dol-
lars in rent and upkeep over the next
decade. It will place the agriculture re-
source center within a 3-hour drive of
19 land-grant colleges, creating
synergies in efficiency and research,
thus getting more research to our agri-
culture producers more quickly.
From Columbia, Missouri, to Kansas
City, to Manhattan, Kansas, to Lin-
coln, Nebraska, over 300 animal and pet
health-related companies dot the land-
scape. This area is already known
worldwide as the animal health cor-
ridor and now accounts for over 50 per-
cent of the total worldwide animal
health, diagnostics, and pet food sales.
By relocating the Department of Ag-
riculture’s agriculture research agen-
cies NIFA and ERS to the center of the
animal health corridor, and with
NBAF’s construction in Manhattan,
Kansas, near completion, the Kansas-
Missouri partnership will truly be the
world’s leading corridor for agriculture
research as well.
This relocation places USDA re-
search where it belongs, in the heart of
the world’s agriculture industry and
close to our land-grant colleges, which
all fuel and modernize the agriculture
industry.
I often brag that I represent the larg-
est agriculture-producing congres-
sional district in America, a brag that
I am going to keep repeating until
someone knocks me off that hill. But
today, I want to emphasize how impor-
tant agriculture is to metropolitan
areas like Kansas City.
In the Kansas City metro area, agri-
culture, food, and food processing sup-
port over 100,000 jobs, or 7 percent of
the entire workforce in the area. These
industries provide a total economic
contribution of over $29 billion, rough-
ly 22 percent of the local Kansas City
metro economy.
As an example of the importance of
agriculture to the area, I can point to
the BNSF facility, where we export 10
million pounds of protein every week.
Also, the DeLong Company elevator ex-
ports nearly 300,000 tons of soybeans
and dried distillers grains yearly.
Guess what? All these commodities,
all these products, are grown in my
home district, the big First District of
Kansas.
The Kansas City metro area is home
to several international grain trading
companies, including Bartlett Grain,
ADM, Cargill, Grain Craft, Scoular
Company, and many others. Seaboard
Foods calls Kansas City its home as
well.
A big thanks to Secretary Perdue for
his leadership, for all he does for agri-
culture, for being a voice of hope to all
agriculture producers, and for fighting
to keep new markets open.
And a big thanks to President Trump
for his leadership, for his faith in the
heartland, and for making this bold
move.
Kansas and Missouri will make this
the agriculture research corridor for
the world.
CELEBRATING KANSAS AS WORLD AIR CAPITAL
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, Kan-
sas is known as the air capital of the
world, manufacturing up to 70 percent
of the world’s embedded aircraft fleet,
while creating nearly 50,000 jobs and
approximately $10 billion in economic
output.
Growing up just outside of Wichita, I
was well aware of the impact and im-
portance the aviation industry had in
my State.
Today, as a U.S. Congressman, I have
had the pleasure of seeing the evo-
lution of the aerospace industry in
Kansas and the continued impact this
sector has on our district and the
State.
This week, our office is celebrating
America’s superiority in the aerospace
sector and Kansas’ role in that indus-
try. From the manufacturing of 747s by
Spirit AeroSystems, to aviation safety
research at the National Institute for
Aviation Research at Wichita State
University, to drone technology devel-
opment at the Kansas State Poly-
technic in Salina, communities across
Kansas have benefited from the past,
present, and future needs of the aero-
space industry.
Since the industry’s inception, the
United States has been a world leader
in aviation research and innovation.
But other countries are rapidly gaining
speed. It is essential that we maintain
our competitive advantage, not only
for continued economic growth in Kan-
sas but for our national security and
the sustained evolution of space and
science technologies.
I have seen the impact this sector
has had on my State, and I am proud to
support the many people, businesses,
and organizations involved in making
the aerospace industry so dynamic and
innovative.
b 1215
THANKSGIVING WEEK
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker,
Thanksgiving is only a week away, and
it is good to have a reminder for myself
and everyone to take a moment to rec-
ognize the many blessings we enjoy as
Americans.
Our Founding Fathers bestowed upon
us a Constitution and a Bill of Rights
unlike anything any other country has
created. Americans enjoy not only free-
dom to worship our God, but to enjoy
the protections of life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness.
This country has allowed a Kansas
farm kid like me to live the American
Dream, to not only go to college and to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.002 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8913
November 18, 2019
medical school, but to raise a wonder-
ful family and enjoy a successful career
practicing medicine, serving in our Na-
tion’s military, and, now, serving our
Nation and my hometown and my
home State in our Capitol. America is
a country of opportunity, self-deter-
mination, and the freedom to choose
your own path.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO A GROUP OF
HEROES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. CALVERT) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor and pay tribute to a
group of heroes who went above and be-
yond to save the life of one of my dis-
trict office staff. It is important to
note that my district office is located
at the Corona City Hall, a detail that
was vital in the events that transpired.
On November 4, 2019, at 1:50 p.m., a
member of my staff experienced a med-
ical event that required immediate at-
tention. Jackie Lansing noticed the
event and brought it to the attention
of the other district staff, who re-
sponded quickly and calmly.
While Jackie provided immediate as-
sistance to the staffer, Kathleen
McGravan called 911. Danielle Shade
hurried to a number of offices in city
hall to find on-site medical personal.
At the same time, Shawna Rimke di-
rected our intern, Noah Ritter, who
had previously received CPR training,
to administer chest compressions.
Shawna then ran to retrieve Cari Lee
Smith, a volunteer at city hall who
Shawna knew was also a Corona Fire
Department volunteer. Cari assisted
Noah in CPR compressions but quickly
realized that she needed a defibrillator.
She sprinted off to secure one of city
hall’s AEDs.
While this was taking place, Ryan
Cortez, a Corona city employee and an
off-duty EMT, was in a meeting with
the City Manager’s Office when he re-
ceived an alert on the PulsePoint Re-
spond app. This app notifies certified
personnel of a medical emergency near
them.
While Ryan rushed downstairs to re-
spond, Cari and Noah administered the
first AED shock. Upon revival, Ryan
administered the second AED shock,
which stabilized the staff member.
At 1:56 p.m. the firemen arrived.
Ryan was able to explain to the fire-
men exactly what transpired as well as
brief them on the AED readings.
I am very grateful to say that this
member of my staff, who has been a
dedicated and instrumental part of my
team for many years, is recovering and
doing well.
That day may have ended very dif-
ferently if not for the quick actions of
my staff and the lifesaving techniques
administered by Noah Ritter, Cari Lee
Smith, and Ryan Cortez. To those
three individuals, the entire Calvert
team sends their heartfelt gratitude.
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 18
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. SHALALA) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Eternal God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
Send Your spirit of peace and calm,
that all might have confidence in Your
faithfulness to us, and that no matter
what lies ahead, Your grace is abun-
dantly available.
The issues of this day call upon all
Americans to be mindful of the institu-
tions of our government and their re-
spective places in the experiment of
constitutional democracy.
Bless the Members of this assembly
that they would be mindful of the oath
each has taken to uphold the Constitu-
tion and worthy of the call they have
been given as Members of Congress.
Their responsibilities are monumental;
bless them with a surfeit of courage as
their deliberations proceed.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr.
WILSON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
STOCKS AND JOBS SOAR
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, the October jobs re-
port was strong. The unemployment
rate remains near a 50-year low, at 3.6
percent, and 128,000 jobs were added.
Employment of African Americans,
Asian Americans, and Hispanics are at
record highs.
I am grateful for President Donald
Trump’s actions to create jobs by re-
ducing taxes and regulations. All
Americans have benefited, with stocks
achieving an all-time record high. The
Dow Jones Average has risen to over
28,000, for the first time in history, on
Friday.
With increased liquidity, jobs are
created for small businesses and retire-
ment accounts. The stock market,
under President Donald Trump, has
soared from 18,000 on election day to,
now, over 28,000.
By creating jobs, lowering unemploy-
ment, and consistently working to pro-
mote opportunities, President Trump
is continuing his record of keeping his
promises. Baseless attacks on the
President by Democrats and fake news
try to conceal these successes, but
President Trump is focused to work for
American families and jobs.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, November 18, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on No-
vember 18, 2019, at 10:00 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 2099.
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 3889.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4:15 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 4 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1617
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 4 o’clock and
17 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.005 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8914 November 18, 2019
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
REFORMING DISASTER RECOVERY
ACT OF 2019
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 3702) to authorize the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment to provide disaster assistance to
States, Puerto Rico, units of general
local government, and Indian tribes
under a community development block
grant disaster recovery program, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3702
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Reforming
Disaster Recovery Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK
GRANT DISASTER RECOVERY PRO-
GRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title I of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974 (42
U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 123. CDBG-DISASTER RECOVERY ASSIST-
ANCE.
‘‘(a) AUTHORITY; USE.—The Secretary may
provide assistance under this section to
States, including Puerto Rico, units of gen-
eral local government, and Indian tribes for
necessary expenses for activities authorized
under this title related to disaster relief, re-
siliency, long-term recovery, restoration of
infrastructure and housing, mitigation, and
economic revitalization in the most im-
pacted and distressed areas (as such term
shall be defined by the Secretary by regula-
tion) resulting from a major disaster de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION; COORDINATION.—
‘‘(1) ALLOCATION FOR MITIGATION.—In deter-
mining the amount allocated under this sec-
tion for any grantee, the Secretary shall in-
clude an additional amount for mitigation
that is not less than 45 percent of the
amount allocated for such grantee for unmet
needs.
‘‘(2) DEADLINES FOR ALLOCATION.—Except as
provided in paragraph (3), after the enact-
ment of an Act making funds available for
assistance under this section, the Secretary
shall allocate for grantees, based on the best
available data all funds provided for assist-
ance under this section within 60 days of the
date of the enactment of such Act.
‘‘(3) INAPPLICABILITY OF DEADLINES BASED
ON INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION.—The deadlines
under paragraph (2) for allocation of funds
shall not apply in the case of funds made
available for assistance under this section if
Federal Emergency Management Agency has
not made sufficient information available to
the Secretary regarding relevant unmet re-
covery needs to make allocations in accord-
ance with such deadlines. The Secretary
shall notify the Congress of progress on or
delay in receiving the necessary information
within 60 days following declaration of such
a major disaster and monthly thereafter
until all necessary information is received.
‘‘(4) OBLIGATION OF AMOUNTS BY THE SEC-
RETARY.—Subject to subsection (c)(1), the
Secretary shall provide for the disbursement
of the amounts allocated for a grantee, but
shall require the grantee to be in substantial
compliance with the requirements of this
section before each such disbursement.
‘‘(5) COORDINATION OF DISASTER BENEFITS
AND DATA WITH OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.—
‘‘(A) COORDINATION OF DATA.—The Sec-
retary shall coordinate with other agencies
to obtain data on recovery needs, including
the Administrator of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and the Administrator
of the Small Business Administration, and
other agencies when necessary regarding dis-
aster benefits.
‘‘(B) COORDINATION WITH FEMA.—The Sec-
retary shall share with the Administrator of
the Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy, and make publicly available, all data col-
lected, possessed, or analyzed during the
course of a disaster recovery for which as-
sistance is provided under this section in-
cluding—
‘‘(i) all data on damage caused by the dis-
aster;
‘‘(ii) information on how any Federal as-
sistance provided in connection with the dis-
aster is expended; and
‘‘(iii) information regarding the effect of
the disaster on education, transportation ca-
pabilities and dependence, housing needs,
health care capacity, and displacement of
persons.
‘‘(C) REQUIREMENTS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY
FOR DIRECT ASSISTANCE AND DUPLICATION OF
BENEFITS.—
‘‘(i) COMPLIANCE.—Funds made available
under this subsection shall be used in accord-
ance with section 312 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), as amended by sec-
tion 1210 of the Disaster Recovery Reform
Act of 2018 (Division D, Public Law 115-254),
and such rules as may be prescribed under
such section.
‘‘(ii) PRIORITY.—Households having the
lowest incomes shall be prioritized for assist-
ance under this subsection until all unmet
needs are satisfied for families having an in-
come up to 120 percent of the median for the
area.
‘‘(D) TREATMENT OF DUPLICATIVE BENE-
FITS.—In any case in which a grantee pro-
vides assistance that duplicates benefits
available to a person for the same purpose
from another source, the grantee itself shall
either (i) be subject to remedies for non-
compliance under section 111, or (ii) bear re-
sponsibility for absorbing such cost of dupli-
cative benefits and returning an amount
equal to any duplicative benefits paid to the
grantee’s funds available for use under this
section or to the Community Development
Block Grant Disaster Recovery Reserve
Fund under section 124, unless the Secretary
issues a public determination by publication
in the Federal Register that it is not in the
best interest of the Federal Government to
pursue such remedies.
‘‘(E) PROTECTION OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFI-
ABLE INFORMATION.—In carrying out this
paragraph, the Secretary and the grantee
shall take such actions as may be necessary
to ensure that personally identifiable infor-
mation regarding recipients of assistance
provided from funds made available under
this section is not made publicly available
by the Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment or any agency with which infor-
mation is shared pursuant to this paragraph.
‘‘(c) PLAN FOR USE OF ASSISTANCE.—
‘‘(1) REQUIREMENT.—Not later than 90 days
after the allocation pursuant to subsection
(b)(1) of all of the funds made available by an
appropriations Act for assistance under this
section and before the Secretary obligates
any of such funds for a grantee, the grantee
shall submit a plan to the Secretary for ap-
proval detailing the proposed use of all
funds, which shall include, at a minimum—
‘‘(A) criteria for eligibility for each pro-
posed use of funds, including eligibility lim-
its on income and geography, and a descrip-
tion of how each proposed use of such funds
will comply with all civil rights and fair
housing laws and will address unmet needs
relating to disaster relief, resiliency, long-
term recovery, restoration of infrastructure
and housing, mitigation, and economic revi-
talization in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas, including assistance to im-
pacted households experiencing homeless-
ness as defined by section 103 of the McKin-
ney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 11302) or at risk of homelessness as de-
fined by section 401 of such Act (42 U.S.C.
11360);
‘‘(B) an agreement to share data,
disaggregated by the smallest census tract,
block group, or block possible for the data
set, with Federal agencies and other pro-
viders of disaster relief, which shall include
information the grantee has regarding the
matters described in subsection (b)(4)(B);
‘‘(C) identification of officials and offices
responsible for administering such funds and
processes and procedures for identifying and
recovering duplicate benefits; and
‘‘(D) a plan for ensuring compliance with
the Fair Housing Act, which may include, at
the election of the grantee, providing for
partnerships with local fair housing organi-
zations and funding set-aside for local fair
housing organizations to handle complaints
relating to assistance with amounts made
available for use under this section.
‘‘(2) APPROVAL.—The Secretary shall, by
regulation, specify criteria for approval of
plans under paragraph (1), including approval
of substantial amendments to such plans.
‘‘(3) DISAPPROVAL.—The Secretary shall
disapprove a plan or substantial amendment
to a plan if—
‘‘(A) the plan or substantial amendment
does not meet the approval criteria;
‘‘(B) based on damage and unmet needs as-
sessments of the Secretary and the Federal
Emergency Management Administration or
such other information as may be available,
the plan or amendment does not address eq-
uitable allocation of resources—
‘‘(i) between infrastructure and housing ac-
tivities; and
‘‘(ii) between homeowners, renters, and
persons experiencing homelessness;
‘‘(C) the plan or amendment does not pro-
vide an adequate plan for ensuring that fund-
ing provided under this section is used in
compliance with the Fair Housing Act;
‘‘(D) the plan or amendment does not
prioritize the one-for-one replacement, with
cost adjustment where appropriate, of dam-
aged dwelling units in public housing, in
projects receiving tax credits pursuant to
section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, or in projects assisted under section 202
of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q),
under section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez
National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C.
8013), under the HOME Investment Partner-
ships Act (42 U.S.C. 12721 et seq), under the
community development block grant pro-
gram under this title, or by the Housing
Trust Fund under section 1338 of the Housing
and Community Development Act of 1992 (12
U.S.C. 4568); or
‘‘(E) the plan or amendment does not pro-
vide a process to provide applicants—
‘‘(i) notice by grantee of applicant’s right
to appeal any adverse action or inaction;
‘‘(ii) right to full discovery of applicant’s
entire application file; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.009 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8915
November 18, 2019
‘‘(iii) right to appeal to a court of com-
petent jurisdiction in the vicinage of the ap-
plicant’s residence at the time of the appeal.
‘‘(4) PUBLIC CONSULTATION.— In developing
the plan required under paragraph (1), a
grantee shall, at a minimum—
‘‘(A) consult with affected residents, stake-
holders, local governments, and public hous-
ing authorities to assess needs;
‘‘(B) publish the plan in accordance with
the requirements set forth by the Secretary,
including a requirement to prominently post
the plan on the website of the grantee for
not less than 14 days;
‘‘(C) ensure equal access for individuals
with disabilities and individuals with limited
English proficiency; and
‘‘(D) publish the plan in a manner that af-
fords citizens, affected local governments,
and other interested parties a reasonable op-
portunity to examine the contents of the
plan and provide feedback.
‘‘(5) RESUBMISSION.—The Secretary shall
permit a grantee to revise and resubmit a
disapproved plan or plan amendment.
‘‘(6) TIMING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ap-
prove or disapprove a plan not later than 60
days after submission of the plan to the Sec-
retary. The Secretary shall immediately no-
tify the applicant of the Secretary’s deci-
sion.
‘‘(B) DISAPPROVAL.—If the Secretary dis-
approves a plan, not later than 15 days after
such disapproval the Secretary shall inform
the applicant in writing of (A) the reasons
for disapproval, and (B) actions that the ap-
plicant could take to meet the criteria for
approval.
‘‘(C) AMENDMENTS; RESUBMISSION.—The
Secretary shall, for a period of not less than
45 days following the date of disapproval,
permit amendments to, or the resubmission
of, any plan that is disapproved. The Sec-
retary shall approve or disapprove a plan
amendment not less than 30 days after re-
ceipt of such amendments or resubmission.
‘‘(D) GRANT AGREEMENTS.—Subject to sub-
section (b)(3), the Secretary shall ensure
that all grant agreements necessary for
prompt disbursement of funds allocated to a
grantee are executed within 60 days of ap-
proval of grantee’s plan.
‘‘(d) FINANCIAL CONTROLS.—
‘‘(1) COMPLIANCE SYSTEM.—The Secretary
shall develop and maintain a system to en-
sure that each grantee has and will maintain
for the life of the grant—
‘‘(A) proficient financial controls and pro-
curement processes;
‘‘(B) adequate procedures to ensure that all
eligible families and individuals are ap-
proved for assistance with amounts made
available under this section and that recipi-
ents are provided the full amount of assist-
ance for which they are eligible;
‘‘(C) adequate procedures to prevent any
duplication of benefits, as defined by section
312 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5155), to ensure timely expenditure of funds,
and to detect and prevent waste, fraud, and
abuse of funds; and
‘‘(D) adequate procedures to ensure the
grantee will maintain comprehensive and
publicly accessible websites that make avail-
able information regarding all disaster re-
covery activities assisted with such funds,
which information shall include—
‘‘(i) full and unredacted copies of all re-
quests for qualification for assistance or for
procurement with such funds, however
styled;
‘‘(ii) all responses to such requests, subject
to redactions necessary to protect personal
or proprietary data;
‘‘(iii) the identity of any entity that re-
views, evaluates, scores, or otherwise influ-
ences or determines the disposition of such
requests;
‘‘(iv) all reports, however styled, con-
taining the reviewing individual or entity’s
scores, findings, and conclusions regarding
such requests; and
‘‘(v) any resulting contract, agreement, or
other disposition of such requests; except
that such procedures shall ensure that per-
sonally identifiable information regarding
recipients of assistance provided from funds
made available under this section shall not
be made publicly available.
‘‘(2) EVALUATION OF COMPLIANCE.—The Sec-
retary shall provide, by regulation or guide-
line, a method for qualitatively and quan-
titatively evaluating compliance with the
requirements under paragraph (1).
‘‘(3) CERTIFICATION.—As a condition of
making any grant, the Secretary shall cer-
tify in advance that the grantee has in place
the processes and procedures required under
subparagraphs (A) through (D) of paragraph
(1).
‘‘(e) USE OF FUNDS.—
‘‘(1) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A State, unit of general
local government, or Indian tribe receiving a
grant under this section may use not less
than 7 percent and not more than 10 percent
of the amount of grant funds received, or
within such other percentage as may be es-
tablished pursuant to subparagraph (B), for
administrative costs and shall document the
use of funds for such purpose in accordance
with such requirements as the Secretary
shall establish.
‘‘(B) DISCRETION TO ESTABLISH SLIDING
SCALE.—The Secretary may establish a series
of percentage limitations on the amount of
grant funds received that may be used by a
grantee for administrative costs, but only
if—
‘‘(i) such percentage limitations are based
on the amount of grant funds received by a
grantee;
‘‘(ii) such series provides that the percent-
age that may be so used is lower for grantees
receiving a greater amount of grant funds
and such percentage that may be so used is
higher for grantees receiving a lesser amount
of grant funds; and
‘‘(iii) in no case may a grantee so use more
than 10 percent of grant funds received.
‘‘(2) LIMITATIONS ON USE.—Amounts from a
grant under this section may not be used for
activities—
‘‘(A) that are reimbursable, or for which
funds are made available, by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, including
under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act or the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Program; or
‘‘(B) for which funds are made available by
the Army Corps of Engineers.
‘‘(3) HUD ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—
‘‘(A) LIMITATION.—Of any funds made avail-
able for use under this section by any single
appropriations Act, the Secretary may use 1
percent of any such amount exceeding
$1,000,000,000 for necessary costs, including
information technology costs, of admin-
istering and overseeing the obligation and
expenditure of amounts made available for
use under this section.
‘‘(B) TRANSFER OF FUNDS.—Any amounts
made available for use in accordance with
subparagraph (A)—
‘‘(i) shall be transferred to the account for
Program Office Salaries and Expenses—Com-
munity Planning and Development for the
Department;
‘‘(ii) shall remain available until expended;
and
‘‘(iii) may be used for administering any
funds appropriated to the Department for
any disaster and related purposes in any
prior or future Act, notwithstanding the dis-
aster for which such funds were appro-
priated.
‘‘(4) INSPECTOR GENERAL.—Of any funds
made available for use in accordance with
paragraph (3)(A), 15 percent shall be trans-
ferred to the Office of the Inspector General
for necessary costs of audits, reviews, over-
sight, evaluation, and investigations relating
to amounts made available for use under this
section.
‘‘(5) CAPACITY BUILDING.—Of any funds
made available for use under this section,
not more than 0.1 percent or $15,000,000,
whichever is less, shall be made available to
the Secretary for capacity building and tech-
nical assistance, including assistance regard-
ing contracting and procurement processes,
to support grantees and subgrantees receiv-
ing funds under this section.
‘‘(6) MITIGATION PLANNING.—
‘‘(A) REQUIREMENT.—The Secretary shall
require each grantee to use a fixed percent-
age of any grant funds for comprehensive
mitigation planning.
‘‘(B) AMOUNT.—Such fixed percentage shall
not be less than 15 percent, except that the
Secretary may by regulation establish a
lower percentage for grantees receiving a
grant exceeding $1,000,000,000.
‘‘(C) COORDINATION.—Each grantee shall en-
sure that such comprehensive mitigation
plans are coordinated and aligned with exist-
ing comprehensive, land use, transportation,
and economic development plans, and spe-
cifically analyze multiple types of hazard ex-
posures and risks. Each grantee shall coordi-
nate and align such mitigation planning
with other mitigation projects funded by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency,
the Army Corps of Engineers, the Forest
Service, and other agencies as appropriate.
‘‘(D) USE OF FUNDS.—Such funds may be
used for the purchase of data and develop-
ment or updating of risk mapping for all rel-
evant hazards.
‘‘(E) PRIORITY.—Grantees shall prioritize
the expenditure of mitigation dollars for pro-
grams and projects primarily benefitting
persons of low and moderate income with the
greatest risk of harm from natural hazards.
‘‘(7) BUILDING SAFETY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—After consultation with
the Administrator of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, the Secretary shall
provide that no funds made available under
this section shall be used for installation,
substantial rehabilitation, reconstruction, or
new construction of infrastructure or resi-
dential, commercial, or public buildings in
hazard-prone areas, unless construction com-
plies with paragraph (8) and with the latest
published editions of relevant national con-
sensus-based codes, and specifications and
standards referenced therein, except that
nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit a grantee from requiring higher
standards.
‘‘(B) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in sub-
paragraph (A) shall be construed as a re-
quirement for a grantee to adopt the latest
published editions of relevant national con-
sensus-based codes, specifications, and
standards.
‘‘(C) COMPLIANCE.—Compliance with this
paragraph may be certified by a registered
design professional.
‘‘(D) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this
paragraph, the following definitions shall
apply:
‘‘(i) HAZARD-PRONE AREAS.—The term ‘haz-
ard-prone areas’ means areas identified by
the Secretary, in consultation with the Ad-
ministrator, at risk from natural hazards
that threaten property damage or health,
safety, and welfare, such as floods (including
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.003 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8916 November 18, 2019
special flood hazard areas), wildfires (includ-
ing Wildland-Urban Interface areas), earth-
quakes, tornados, and high winds. The Sec-
retary may consider future risks and the
likelihood such risks may pose to protecting
property and health, safety, and general wel-
fare when making the determination of or
modification to hazard-prone areas.
‘‘(ii) LATEST PUBLISHED EDITIONS.—The
term ‘latest published editions’ means, with
respect to relevant national consensus-based
codes, and specifications and standards ref-
erenced therein, the two most recent pub-
lished editions, including, if any, amend-
ments made by State, local, tribal, or terri-
torial governments during the adoption proc-
ess, that incorporate the latest natural haz-
ard-resistant designs and establish criteria
for the design, construction, and mainte-
nance of structures and facilities that may
be eligible for assistance under this section
for the purposes of protecting the health,
safety, and general welfare of a buildings’s
users against disasters.
‘‘(8) FLOOD RISK MITIGATION.—
‘‘(A) REQUIREMENTS.—Subject to subpara-
graph (B), the Secretary shall require that
any structure that is located in an area hav-
ing special flood hazards and that is newly
constructed, for which substantial damage is
repaired, or that is substantially improved,
using amounts made available under this
section, shall be elevated with the lowest
floor, including the basement, at least two
feet above the base flood level, except that
critical facilities, including hospitals, nurs-
ing homes, and other public facilities pro-
viding social and economic lifelines, as de-
fined by the Secretary, shall be elevated at
least 3 feet above the base flood elevation (or
higher if required under paragraph (7)).
‘‘(B) ALTERNATIVE MITIGATION.—In the case
of existing structures consisting of multi-
family housing and row houses, the Sec-
retary shall seek consultation with the Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency, shall provide for alter-
native forms of mitigation (apart from ele-
vation), and shall exempt from the require-
ment under subparagraph (A) any such struc-
ture that meets the standards for such an al-
ternative form of mitigation.
‘‘(C) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of sub-
paragraph (A), the terms ‘area having special
flood hazards’, ‘newly constructed’, ‘substan-
tial damage’, ‘substantial improvement’, and
‘base flood level’ have the same meanings as
under the Flood Disaster Protection Act of
1973 and the National Flood Insurance Act of
1968 (42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.).
‘‘(f) ADMINISTRATION.—In administering
any amounts made available for assistance
under this section, the Secretary—
‘‘(1) may not allow a grantee to use any
such amounts for any purpose other than the
purpose approved by the Secretary in the
plan or amended plan submitted under sub-
section (c)(1) to the Secretary for use of such
amounts;
‘‘(2) may not permit a grantee to amend a
plan to retroactively approve a beneficiary’s
use of funds for an eligible activity other
than an activity for which the funds were
originally approved in the plan; and
‘‘(3) shall prohibit a grantee from dele-
gating, by contract or otherwise, the respon-
sibility for inherent government functions.
‘‘(g) TRAINING FOR GRANT MANAGEMENT FOR
SUBGRANTEES.—The Secretary shall require
each grantee to provide ongoing training to
all staff and subgrantees.
‘‘(h) PROCUREMENT PROCESSES AND PROCE-
DURES FOR GRANTEES.—
‘‘(1) GRANTEE PROCESSES AND PROCE-
DURES.—In procuring property or services to
be paid for in whole or in part with amounts
from a grant under this section, a grantee
shall—
‘‘(A) follow its own procurement processes
and procedures, but only if the Secretary
makes a determination that such processes
and procedures comply with the require-
ments under paragraph (2); or
‘‘(B) comply with such processes and proce-
dures as the Secretary shall, by regulation,
establish for purposes of this section.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The requirements
under this paragraph with respect to the pro-
curement processes and procedures of a
grantee are that such processes and proce-
dures shall—
‘‘(A) provide for full and open competition
and require cost or price analysis;
‘‘(B) include requirements for procurement
policies and procedures for subgrantees;
‘‘(C) specify methods of procurement and
their applicability, but not allow cost-plus-a-
percentage-of cost or percentage-of-construc-
tion-cost methods of procurement;
‘‘(D) include standards of conduct gov-
erning employees engaged in the award or
administration of contracts; and
‘‘(E) ensure that all purchase orders and
contracts include any clauses required by
Federal Statute, Executive Order, or imple-
menting regulation.
‘‘(3) NONCOMPLIANCE.—In the case of a
grantee for which the Secretary finds pursu-
ant to paragraph (1)(A) that its procurement
processes and procedures do not comply with
paragraph (2), the Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) provide the grantee with specific writ-
ten notice of the elements of noncompliance
and the changes necessary to such processes
and procedures to provide for compliance;
‘‘(B) provide the grantee a reasonable pe-
riod of time to come into compliance; and
‘‘(C) during such period allow the grantee
to proceed with procuring property and serv-
ices paid for in whole or in part with
amounts from a grant under this section in
compliance with the procurement processes
and procedures of the grantee, but only if the
Secretary determines that the grantee is
making a good faith effort to effectuate com-
pliance with the requirements of paragraph
(2).
‘‘(i) TREATMENT OF CDBG ALLOCATIONS.—
Amounts made available for use under this
section shall not be considered relevant to
the non-disaster formula allocations made
pursuant to section 106 of this title (42 U.S.C.
5306).
‘‘(j) WAIVERS.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORITY.—Subject to the other pro-
visions of this section, in administering
amounts made available for use under this
section, the Secretary may waive, or specify
alternative requirements for, any provision
of any statute or regulation that the Sec-
retary administers in connection with the
obligation by the Secretary or the use by the
recipient of such funds (except for require-
ments related to fair housing, non-
discrimination, labor standards, and the en-
vironment and except for the requirements
of this section), if the Secretary makes a
public finding that good cause exists for the
waiver or alternative requirement and such
waiver or alternative requirement would not
be inconsistent with the overall purpose of
this title.
‘‘(2) NOTICE AND PUBLICATION.—Any waiver
of or alternative requirement pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall not take effect before the
expiration of the 5-day period beginning
upon the publication of notice in the Federal
Register of such waiver or alternative re-
quirement.
‘‘(3) LOW- AND MODERATE-INCOME USE.—The
requirements in this Act that apply to
grants made under section 106 of this title
(except those related to the allocation) apply
equally to grants under this section unless
modified by a waiver or alternative require-
ment pursuant to paragraph (1). Notwith-
standing the preceding sentence, the Sec-
retary may not grant a waiver to reduce the
percentage of funds that must be used for ac-
tivities that benefit persons of low and mod-
erate income to less than 70 percent, unless
the Secretary specifically finds that there is
compelling need to further reduce the per-
centage requirement and that funds are not
necessary to address the housing needs of
low- and moderate-income residents.
‘‘(4) PROHIBITION.—The Secretary may not
waive any provision of this section pursuant
to the authority under paragraph (1).
‘‘(k) ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW.—
‘‘(1) ADOPTION.—Notwithstanding sub-
section (j)(1), recipients of funds provided
under this section that use such funds to
supplement Federal assistance provided
under section 402, 403, 404, 406, 407, 408(c)(4),
428, or 502 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may adopt, without re-
view or public comment, any environmental
review, approval, or permit performed by a
Federal agency, and such adoption shall sat-
isfy the responsibilities of the recipient with
respect to such environmental review, ap-
proval, or permit under section 104(g)(1) of
this title (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(1)).
‘‘(2) RELEASE OF FUNDS.—Notwithstanding
section 104(g)(2) of this title (42 U.S.C.
5304(g)(2)), the Secretary may, upon receipt
of a request for release of funds and certifi-
cation, immediately approve the release of
funds for an activity or project assisted with
amounts made available for use under this
section if the recipient has adopted an envi-
ronmental review, approval or permit under
paragraph (1) or the activity or project is
categorically excluded from review under the
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
(42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
‘‘(l) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION; AUDITS
AND OVERSIGHT.—
‘‘(1) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—For each
major disaster for which assistance is made
available under this section, the Secretary
shall collect information from grantees re-
garding all recovery activities so assisted,
including information on applicants and re-
cipients of assistance, and shall make such
information available to the public and to
the Inspector General for the Department of
Housing and Urban Development on a
monthly basis using uniform data collection
practices, and shall provide a monthly up-
date to the Congress regarding compliance
with this section. Information collected and
reported by grantees and the Secretary shall
be disaggregated by program, race, income,
geography, and all protected classes of indi-
viduals under the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act,
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
the Fair Housing Act, the Civil Rights Act of
1964, and other civil rights and non-
discrimination protections, with respect to
the smallest census tract, block group, or
block possible for the data set.
‘‘(2) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.— In
carrying out this paragraph, the Secretary
may make full and unredacted information
available to academic and research institu-
tions for the purpose of research into the eq-
uitable distribution of recovery funds, adher-
ence to civil rights protections, and other
areas.
‘‘(3) PROTECTION OF INFORMATION.—The Sec-
retary shall take such actions and make
such redactions as may be necessary to en-
sure that personally identifiable information
regarding recipients of assistance provided
from funds made available under this section
shall not made publicly available.
‘‘(4) AUDITS AND OVERSIGHT.—In conducting
audits, reviews, oversight, evaluation, and
investigations, in addition to activities de-
signed to prevent and detect waste, fraud,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.003 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8917
November 18, 2019
and abuse, the Inspector General shall re-
view programs of grantees under this section
for providing disaster relief and recovery as-
sistance to ensure such programs fulfill their
agreed-upon purposes and serve all eligible
applicants for disaster relief or recovery as-
sistance.
‘‘(m) BEST PRACTICES.—
‘‘(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall direct the
Office Community Planning and Develop-
ment to collaborate with the Office of Policy
Development and Research to identify best
practices for grantees on issues including de-
veloping the action plan under subsection (c)
and substantive amendments, establishing
financial controls, building grantee tech-
nical and administrative capacity, procure-
ment, compliance with Fair Housing Act
statute and regulations, and use of grant
funds as local match for other sources of fed-
eral funding. The Secretary shall publish a
compilation of such identified best practices
and share with all relevant grantees to fa-
cilitate a more efficient and effective dis-
aster recovery process. The compilation
shall include guidelines for housing and eco-
nomic revitalization programs, including
mitigation, with sufficient model language
on program design for grantees to incor-
porate into action plans. The compilation
shall include standards for at least form of
application, determining unmet need, and in-
come eligibility.
‘‘(2) PROMULGATION.—After publication of
the final compilation, the Secretary shall
issue either Federal regulations, as part of
the final rule for the above authorization or
as a separate rule, or a Federal Register no-
tice that establishes the requirements which
grantees must follow in order to qualify for
expedited review and approval. Such guid-
ance shall establish standard language for
inclusion in action plans under subsection (c)
and for establishing standardized programs
and activities recognized by the Secretary.
Use of best practices shall not preclude
grantees from standard requirements for
public comment, community engagement,
and online posting of the action plan. Use of
promulgated best practices shall allow for an
expedited review process, under which the
Secretary will approve or disapprove such
programs within 30 days. The Secretary shall
publish the draft compilation of best prac-
tices on its website and allow the public 60
days to submit comments. The Secretary
shall review all public comments and publish
a final compilation within one year from the
date of enactment. The Secretary may revise
the requirements for best practices at any
time after a public comment period of at
least 60 days.
‘‘(n) PLAN PRE-CERTIFICATION FOR UNITS OF
GENERAL LOCAL GOVERNMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
carry out a program under this subsection to
provide for units of general local government
to pre-certify as eligible grantees for assist-
ance under this section. The objective of
such program shall be to—
‘‘(A) allow grantees that have consistently
demonstrated the ability to administer funds
responsibly and equitably in similar disas-
ters to utilize in subsequent years plans
which are substantially similar to those the
Department has previously approved; and
‘‘(B) facilitate the re-use of a plan or its
substantially similar equivalent by a pre-
certified grantee for whom the plan has pre-
viously been approved and executed upon.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—To be eligible for pre-
certification under the program under this
subsection a unit of general local govern-
ment shall—
‘‘(A) demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Secretary compliance with the requirements
of this section; and
‘‘(B) have previously submitted a plan or
its substantially similar equivalent and re-
ceived assistance thereunder as a grantee or
subgrantee under this section, or with
amounts made available for the Community
Development Block Grant—Disaster Recov-
ery account, in connection with two or more
major disasters declared pursuant to the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
‘‘(3) APPROVAL OF PLANS.—
‘‘(A) EXPEDITED APPROVAL PROCESSES.—The
Secretary shall establish and maintain proc-
esses for expediting approval of plans for
units of general local government that are
pre-certified under this subsection.
‘‘(B) EFFECT OF PRE-CERTIFICATION.—Pre-
certification pursuant to this subsection
shall not—
‘‘(i) establish any entitlement to, or pri-
ority or preference for, allocation of funds
made available under this section; or
‘‘(ii) exempt any grantee from complying
with any of the requirements under, or es-
tablished pursuant to, subsection (c) or (d).
‘‘(4) DURATION.—Pre-certification under
this subsection shall be effective for a term
of 10 years.
‘‘(o) DEPOSIT OF UNUSED AMOUNTS IN
FUND.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If any amounts made
available for assistance under this section to
grantees remain unexpended upon the earlier
of—
‘‘(A) the date that the grantee of such
amounts notifies the Secretary that the
grantee has completed all activities identi-
fied in the grantee’s plan for use of such
amounts that was approved by the Secretary
in connection with such grant; or
‘‘(B) the expiration of the 6-year period be-
ginning upon the Secretary obligating such
amounts to the grantee, as such period may
be extended pursuant to paragraph (2);
the Secretary may, subject to authority pro-
vided in advance by appropriations Acts,
transfer such unexpended amounts to the
Secretary of the Treasury for deposit into
the Community Development Block Grant
Disaster Recovery Reserve Fund established
under section 124, except that the Secretary
may, by regulation, permit the grantee to re-
tain amounts needed to close out the grant.
‘‘(2) EXTENSION OF PERIOD FOR USE OF
FUNDS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The period under para-
graph (1)(B) shall be extended by not more
than 4 years if, before the expiration of such
6-year period, the Secretary waives this re-
quirement and submits a written justifica-
tion for such waiver to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate that specifies the period
of such extension.
‘‘(B) INSULAR AREA.—For any amounts
made available for assistance under this sec-
tion to a grantee that is an insular area as
specified in section 107(b)(1), the Secretary
may extend the waiver period under subpara-
graph (A) by not more than an additional 4
years, and shall provide additional technical
assistance to help increase capacity within
the insular area receiving such extension. If
the Secretary extends the waiver period pur-
suant to this subparagraph, the Secretary
shall submit a written justification for such
extension to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
the Senate that specifies the period of such
extension.
‘‘(p) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:
‘‘(1) GRANTEE.—The term ‘grantee’ means a
recipient of funds made available under this
section after its enactment.
‘‘(2) SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR.—The term
‘substantially similar’ means, with respect
to a plan, a plan previously approved by the
Department, administered successfully by
the grantee, and relating to disasters of the
same type.
‘‘(3) OTHER TERMS.—Within one year of en-
actment of this section, the Department
shall issue rules to define the following
terms:
‘‘(A) Unmet needs.
‘‘(B) Most impacted and distressed.
‘‘(C) Substantial compliance.
‘‘(D) Full and open competition.
‘‘(E) Cost plus a percentage of cost.
‘‘(F) Percentage of construction cost.
‘‘SEC. 124. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK
GRANT DISASTER RECOVERY RE-
SERVE FUND.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Treasury of the United States an ac-
count to be known as the Community Devel-
opment Block Grant Disaster Recovery Re-
serve Fund (in this section referred to as the
‘Fund’).
‘‘(b) AMOUNTS.—The Fund shall consist of
any amounts appropriated to or deposited
into the Fund, including amounts deposited
into the Fund pursuant to section 123(o).
‘‘(c) USE.—Amounts in the Fund shall be
available, pursuant to the occurrence of a
major disaster declared under the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act, only for providing technical as-
sistance and capacity building in connection
with section 123 for grantees under such sec-
tion that have been allocated assistance
under such section in connection with such
disaster to facilitate planning required under
such section and increase capacity to admin-
ister assistance provided under such section,
including for technical assistance and train-
ing building and fire officials, builders, con-
tractors and subcontractors, architects, and
other design and construction professionals
regarding the latest published editions of na-
tional consensus-based codes, specifications,
and standards (as such term is defined in
secction 123(e)(7)).’’.
(b) REGULATIONS.—
(1) PROPOSED RULE.—Not later than the ex-
piration of the 6-month period beginning on
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment shall issue proposed rules to carry out
sections 123 and 124 of the Housing and Com-
munity Development Act of 1974, as added by
the amendment made by subsection (a) of
this section, and shall provide a 90-day pe-
riod for submission of public comments on
such proposed rule.
(2) FINAL RULE.—Not later than the expira-
tion of the 12-month period beginning on the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
shall issue final regulations to carry out sec-
tions 123 and 124 of the Housing and Commu-
nity Development Act of 1974, as added by
the amendment made by subsection (a) of
this section.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) and the gentle-
woman from Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER)
each will control 20 minutes.
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, I claim
the time in opposition to the motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentlewoman from Missouri opposed to
the bill?
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I am in
support of the bill. However, this is the
jurisdiction of the Financial Services
Committee. I am the vice ranking
member, and I am willing to yield
time. I think we will be speaking in
both opposition and in support of the
bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.003 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8918 November 18, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Accord-
ingly, the gentleman from North Caro-
lina (Mr. ROUZER) will control the time
in opposition.
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 10
minutes to the gentlewoman from Mis-
souri (Mrs. WAGNER), and I ask unani-
mous consent that she may control
that time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from North Carolina?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, for more than 25 years,
the House has failed to formally codify
the vital disaster recovery program
called the Community Development
Block Grant Disaster Recovery, CDBG-
DR, program.
Today, we in this body have it within
our power, through this important
vote, to at least resolve many of the
problems, delays, and inefficiencies for
disaster victims. H.R. 3702, the Reform-
ing Disaster Recovery Act, is a solidly
bipartisan solution to the persistent
long-term disaster recovery crisis that
directly impacts all of our districts.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my cosponsor,
Mrs. WAGNER, for her steadfast com-
mitment to making meaningful re-
forms to the delivery of Federal dis-
aster recovery resources to those who
need it the most.
Mr. Speaker, I also thank Chair-
woman WATERS for her tireless leader-
ship of the Financial Services Com-
mittee. It is due to her visionary lead-
ership that our committee has moved
so much legislation on a bipartisan
basis, including this piece of legisla-
tion.
Additionally, Mr. Speaker, I thank
Ranking Member MCHENRY—the bill
came out of the Financial Services
Committee unanimously—Leader
HOYER, Leader MCCARTHY, and Demo-
cratic and Republican staff.
I would like to thank the Office of
the Inspector General of Housing and
Urban Development; Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development Dr.
Ben Carson; Transportation and Infra-
structure Committee Chair DEFAZIO
and Ranking Member SAM GRAVES; Ap-
propriations Chair LOWEY and Ranking
Member KAY GRANGER; and, of course,
Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner, who
has been a steadfast supporter; Harris
County Judge Lina Hidalgo; Harris
County Commissioner Rodney Ellis;
and Harris County Commissioner Adri-
an Garcia.
H.R. 3702 codifies, for the first time,
the requirements and policy objectives
of the CDBG-DR program. In the wake
of increasing threats from severe
weather events, this is a critical long-
term reform for Federal public policy
on disaster recovery.
As but one example, Houston had
three record-breaking floods in a 3-year
period, the last one being Hurricane
Harvey. A major component of the Fed-
eral response to each of these floods is
CDBG-DR, a program administered by
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development for the past 26 years.
According to findings by HUD’s in-
spector general, this important lifeline
to recovery for so many stricken com-
munities needs to be amended, not
ended. This bears repeating. HUD be-
lieves that this legislation is going to
help mend some of the problems, and
HUD does not desire to see us end the
CDBG-DR program.
The HUD OIG recommended codifica-
tion of the CDBG-DR program require-
ments to achieve four essential objec-
tives.
The first, the creation of a perma-
nent framework for future disasters;
this bill does that.
Reduction of the existing volume of
Federal Register notices; this bill does
that.
Standardization of the rules for all
grantees; this bill does that.
Timely disbursement and closing of
grants; this bill does that as well.
The bill incorporates 21st century
mitigation resiliency standards cham-
pioned by Majority Leader HOYER,
whom I thank, Mr. Speaker, for his
thoughtful contributions to the legisla-
tion and for his commitment to bring-
ing this important measure to the floor
today.
Finally, the bill reflects many hours
of constructive input from the Com-
mittees on Transportation and Infra-
structure as well as Appropriations.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND
INFRASTRUCTURE, HOUSE OF REP-
RESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, November 13, 2019.
Hon. MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman, Committee on Financial Services,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN WATERS: I write con-
cerning H.R. 3702, the Reforming Disaster
Recovery Act of 2019. There are certain pro-
visions in this legislation that fall within
the Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure (‘‘Com-
mittee’’). Since a committee report was not
filed on this bill this Congress, our sequen-
tial referral request will not be adjudicated.
However, H.R. 3702 closely resembles H.R.
4557, the Reforming Disaster Recovery Act of
2017, introduced in the 115th Congress and for
which the Committee did receive a sequen-
tial referral.
According to House Rule X(l)(r), the Com-
mittee’s jurisdiction includes emergency
management, specifically ‘‘Federal manage-
ment of emergencies and natural disasters.’’
As part of this jurisdiction, the Committee
has authority over the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (Stafford Act), and activities re-
lating to the full cycle of emergency man-
agement—preparing for, protecting against,
responding to, recovering from, and miti-
gating against all hazards—whether natural
or man-made. Also falling under the jurisdic-
tion of the Committee are:
‘‘Flood control and improvement of rivers
and harbors’’;
‘‘Construction or maintenance of roads and
post roads’’;
‘‘Public works for the benefit of naviga-
tion, including bridges and dams’’;
‘‘Roads and the safety thereof’’;
‘‘Transportation, including . . . transpor-
tation infrastructure’’; and
Economic development programs.
H.R. 3702 authorizes the Department of
Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD)
Community Development Block Grant–Dis-
aster Recovery (CDBG–DR) program, which
was first funded in 1993. The authority for
the CDBG–DR program has historically been
a construct of appropriations bills. This leg-
islation would formally authorize in statute
for the first time a disaster program in HUD
to provide assistance for ‘‘disaster relief, re-
siliency, long-term recovery, restoration of
infrastructure and housing, mitigation, and
economic revitalization in the most im-
pacted and distressed areas (as such term
shall be defined by the Secretary by regula-
tion) resulting from a major disaster de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act.’’ In the past, the CDBG–DR program has
only been available for some declared disas-
ters and activated via appropriations bills
when disasters have been of such a mag-
nitude that Congress has determined such
additional funding may be needed.
The current Federal authorities for pre-
paring for, responding to, and recovering
from disasters were established in the Dis-
aster Relief Act of 1974 (P.L. 93–288) and sub-
sequently updated by the Stafford Act. Prior
to the establishment of FEMA in 1979, such
programs and activities were scattered
throughout the Federal government. When
FEMA was moved into the Department of
Homeland Security (DHS) in 2002, the au-
thorities and activities of FEMA were dis-
persed throughout the Department. During
these reorganizations, the Committee’s juris-
diction flowed with the subject matter of
emergency management regardless of where
and how such authorities were dispersed.
Then, Congress enacted the Post-Katrina
Emergency Management Reform Act (P.L.
109–295) in 2006, restoring FEMA and estab-
lishing it as the Federal agency with the pri-
mary mission ‘‘to reduce the loss of life and
property and protect the Nation from all
hazards, including natural disasters, acts of
terrorism, and other man-made disasters, by
leading and supporting the Nation in a risk-
based, comprehensive emergency manage-
ment system of preparedness, protection, re-
sponse, recovery, and mitigation’’ (6 U.S.C.
313).
Given that the CDBG–DR program could
directly impact FEMA’s mission and pro-
grams, and potentially conflict with FEMA’s
delivery of disaster assistance and adminis-
tration of recovery programs, codifying this
major disaster assistance program, regard-
less of what department or agency it is
under, should fall within the Committee’s ju-
risdiction over the ‘‘Federal management of
emergencies and natural disasters.’’
There are even more potential conflicts
impacting the Committee’s jurisdiction
given the breadth of the projects and activi-
ties CDBG–DR can fund. In addition to
CDBG–DR funds being used for disaster relief
and long-term recovery, they can also be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.010 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8919
November 18, 2019
used for the restoration of infrastructure,
housing, and economic revitalization. These
activities include rebuilding homes, repair-
ing roads and bridges, rebuilding or replacing
water and wastewater facilities, repairing
public buildings, and economic development.
HUD could potentially establish require-
ments for these activities funded through
CDBG–DR that conflict with the require-
ments and policies the Committee estab-
lishes through our water resources and sur-
face transportation bills.
It is critical to ensure that our Federal
emergency management programs are co-
ordinated, accountable, and effective, and
that oversight of these programs is clear.
Without the lead Committee on Federal
emergency management—the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure—effec-
tively able to carry out oversight of a dis-
aster program, the potential result is con-
flicting requirements and guidance issued
under different disaster programs with little
obligation to coordinate with each other.
The result could be new hurdles to recipients
of Federal assistance and aid at a time when
we’ve seen a significant increase in disasters
impacting so many communities across our
Nation. Because of this, I also ask your co-
operation in working to ensure that future
bills related to CDBG–DR are also referred to
the Committee.
At this time however, in order to expedite
floor consideration of H.R. 3702, the Com-
mittee agrees to forgo action on the bill.
This is conditional on our mutual under-
standing that forgoing consideration of the
bill would not prejudice the Committee with
respect to the appointment of conferees or to
any future jurisdictional claim over the sub-
ject matters contained in the bill or similar
legislation that fall within the Committee’s
Rule X jurisdiction. I also request that you
urge the Speaker to name members of this
Committee to any conference committee
named to consider such provisions.
Please place a copy of this letter and your
response acknowledging our jurisdictional
interest on H.R. 3702 into the Congressional
Record during consideration of the measure
on the House floor. I look forward to work-
ing with the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices as the bill moves through the legislative
process.
Sincerely,
PETER A. DEFAZIO,
Chair.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES,
Washington, DC, November 18, 2019.
Hon. PETER A. DEFAZIO,
Chairman, House Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing to ac-
knowledge your letter dated November 13,
2019, concerning H.R. 3702, the ‘‘Reforming
Disaster Recovery Act of 2019.’’. Noting that
H.R. 3702 differs substantially from H.R. 4557,
introduced in the 115th Congress, the Com-
mittee on Financial Services confirms our
mutual understanding that foregoing action
on H.R. 3702 does not prejudice any future ju-
risdictional claim over the subject matters
contained in the bill or similar legislation,
nor does it prejudice your committee from
seeking the appointment of conferees on the
bill or such legislation.
The Committee on Financial Services fur-
ther acknowledges your request for appoint-
ment of outside conferees from the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
for any provisions within the Committee’s
Rule X jurisdiction should this bill or simi-
lar language be considered in a conference
with the Senate.
Pursuant to your request, I will ensure
that this exchange of letters is included in
the Committee report to H.R. 3702 and the
Congressional Record during Floor consider-
ation of the bill. I appreciate your coopera-
tion regarding this legislation.
Sincerely,
MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman.
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in opposition to H.R. 3702, the
Reforming Disaster Recovery Act.
It gives me no pleasure to be in oppo-
sition to it, but, Mr. Speaker, we all
come to our conclusions based on the
best information we have available to
us and our personal experience.
My home State of North Carolina has
been victimized by four hurricanes in 4
years, and our State and local officials
have seen up close how the Community
Development Block Grant Disaster Re-
covery program administered by HUD
works. The answer is, not well at all.
Instead of fundamentally reforming
the way we fund disaster recovery, this
bill essentially takes a broken process
and makes it permanent. Simply put,
this bill would enshrine into law a reg-
ulatory quagmire.
Since 2017, Congress has appropriated
roughly $37 billion to CDBG-DR. Unfor-
tunately, HUD’s grant compliance and
certification process for this program
are so needlessly complicated that
States are forced to divert money in-
tended for victims of natural disasters
just to navigate the program and inter-
act with HUD.
This is really key: A huge gap be-
tween disaster response and long-term
disaster recovery is the result.
Long waits between disaster relief
and long-term recovery efforts increase
the chance that people will not return
to their homes or communities or re-
open their businesses, the lifeblood of
small towns and rural communities.
Under the current framework, the
one this bill would codify, disaster vic-
tims must make a tough choice. Do
they wait forever for HUD to begin dis-
bursing these funds? Do they abandon
their homes and businesses? Do they
take out a loan they will have to pay
back? Or do they begin the rebuilding
process on their own, forsaking help
from the Federal Government that
their neighbors who wait to begin the
rebuilding process will eventually get?
Mr. Speaker, victims should not have
to make this choice. There should be
continuity between the immediate re-
covery resources that come from
FEMA and long-term recovery funds
that help rebuild communities.
Delays caused by the current frame-
work—the months-long Federal Reg-
ister notice process, the onerous grant
program requirements, the additional
authorities this bill gives the Sec-
retary of HUD to reject grantees’ ac-
tion plans—ensure that there will be a
long wait between immediate disaster
relief and long-term recovery.
Should we accept this fundamentally
broken process as the best? The an-
swer, of course, is we shouldn’t. In-
stead, let’s work together to fundamen-
tally fix how we get funds to our com-
munities and families in need. Let’s
work to ensure taxpayer dollars are
going where they are needed most and
in a timely manner.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
join me in opposing this legislation and
working to overhaul our disaster relief
efforts in a commonsense way.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge my
colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 3702,
the Reforming Disaster Recovery Act,
which I introduced with Congressman
AL GREEN.
Mr. Speaker, before I begin, I want to
take a moment to thank Congressman
GREEN and the majority leader, Mr.
HOYER, and so many others who have
been great partners in this endeavor—
again, unanimous votes out of the Fi-
nancial Services Committee in both
the 115th and the 116th Congresses. I
appreciate their willingness to make
sure that disaster relief is being spent
on the most vulnerable victims of nat-
ural disasters.
When natural disasters strike, the
Federal Government plays a critical
role in delivering emergency aid. Tax-
payer dollars spent on disaster relief
must be allocated wisely and effi-
ciently. Every disaster relief dollar di-
verted to an ineffective or wasteful use
is a dollar that is not going to help
people in need.
Last Congress, the Financial Services
Subcommittee on Oversight and Inves-
tigations began a bipartisan effort to
improve the Community Development
Block Grant Disaster Recovery pro-
gram. Today’s legislation is a product
of that strong bipartisan work.
The Community Development Block
Grant Disaster Recovery program helps
communities start the recovery process
and assists neighborhoods with limited
resources in rebuilding critical infra-
structure after a catastrophic event.
b 1630
According to numerous IG reports
and a hearing that the Oversight and
Investigations Subcommittee held in
2018, major issues have been identified
with the CDBG-DR program. Slow re-
imbursement of disaster-related fund-
ing, delays in funding for our low- to
moderate-income citizens, and the po-
tential duplication of benefits were
just some of the identified difficulties.
While FEMA and other government
agencies provide immediate resources
to victims of disasters, it is HUD that
often distributes the most aid through
the CDBG disaster recovery program.
Although HUD has become a primary
provider of disaster assistance since
1993, this program is not codified in
statute.
HUD uses more than 60 Federal Reg-
ister notices to issue clarifying guid-
ance waivers and alternative require-
ments to oversee at least 113 active dis-
aster recovery program grants, which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.004 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8920 November 18, 2019
total—are you ready for this, Mr.
Speaker?—more than $47 billion of tax-
payer money as of last year.
Codifying the CDBG-DR program
would provide a framework for future
disasters, reduce the overreliance on
Federal Register notices for each dis-
aster, and speed delivery of disaster as-
sistance to grantees and disaster vic-
tims.
The CDBG-DR program must be codi-
fied and reformed to increase oversight
and accountability and ensure that dis-
aster relief dollars go directly and ex-
peditiously to those who need them the
most. Codification provides proper con-
trols that protect against waste, fraud,
and abuse.
In testimony before the Oversight
and Investigations Subcommittee last
Congress, the acting inspector general
of HUD noted that $11.5 billion of
CDBG-DR funds appropriated for disas-
ters, going all the way back for almost
nearly a decade, remain unspent.
H.R. 3702 sets up a mechanism to re-
capture future unused CDBG-DR funds,
an accountability mechanism that we
desperately need to put in reserves for
future disasters. We must do a better
job recouping this lost money for fu-
ture disasters. And, most importantly,
this will help ensure disaster funds are
getting to those who need them most
when they need it.
H.R. 3702 also helps to eliminate the
duplication of benefits that can occur
in the wake of government response to
a natural disaster under our current
multiagency system. It helps protect
taxpayer dollars from being improperly
allocated, from waste, fraud, and
abuse, as was laid out by the inspector
general.
It is about time, Mr. Speaker, that
Congress makes this disaster relief pro-
gram accountable to the people we
serve and to American taxpayers in
every State.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
am honored to yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. HOYER),
the honorable majority leader of the
House.
(Mr. HOYER asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. GREEN and
Mrs. WAGNER for their efforts in a bi-
partisan way. I thank the committee
for reporting it overwhelmingly—in
fact, I think unanimously—out of com-
mittee. And I thank Chairwoman
WATERS of the Financial Services Com-
mittee for her leadership in advancing
this important bill.
In 2017, damage from natural disas-
ters, such as Hurricanes Harvey, Irma,
and Maria, cost our country and its
territories $300 billion—in 1 year alone.
We know that these storms are be-
coming more frequent and more severe,
resulting from a change in climate.
Sadly, our future will look more and
more like 2017 as the climate crisis
worsens. That is why, after visiting
Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands,
and the Florida Keys in the fall of 2017,
I helped lead a bipartisan effort to en-
sure that Federal disaster relief fund-
ing is used to help communities rebuild
to 21st century standards.
In my view, if we fail to help commu-
nities rebuild stronger, they will be
just as vulnerable to future disasters as
they were before. Not only is that an
unwise path to follow, it is a waste of
taxpayer dollars. That is why I am glad
that this bill includes important provi-
sions for climate resilience, hazard
mitigation, and helping communities
rebuild to 21st century standards.
I am proud to bring this bill to the
floor and hope that it will pass with
broad, bipartisan support. This bill au-
thorizes, for the first time, a commu-
nity development block grant disaster
recovery program.
The program has been in use through
appropriations since 1993 to help com-
munities affected by natural disasters,
but it has never been formally author-
ized. That means that the Department
of Housing and Urban Development
must go through extra hurdles before
distributing these emergency funds,
which can delay assistance getting to
the communities that need it.
Mr. GREEN recognizes that, Mrs.
WAGNER recognizes that, and, frankly,
it is the unanimous view of the com-
mittee that this was a step to take.
With this legislation, that process will
be streamlined, and we can do our part
to make the process of rebuilding after
a natural disaster faster and better.
I thank the chair and the sponsors of
the bill for making commonsense
changes to help align it with some of
the reforms we have made to the Staf-
ford Act following the 2017 hurricanes.
Importantly, the bill conditions the
receipt of CDBG disaster funding on
the adoption of the latest building
codes and standards for those commu-
nities that want to rebuild in hazard
zone areas, such as flood zones. That
will ensure that homes, schools, hos-
pitals, and other infrastructure are re-
built stronger and more resilient, mak-
ing them safer for their occupants and,
as I said, protecting taxpayer dollars
that aren’t being used to rebuild these
buildings and infrastructure.
I was pleased that, when we adopted
the amendments to the Stafford Act,
Mr. MCCARTHY, the then-majority lead-
er, and I were the cosponsors of that
legislation. I am pleased that Mr.
MCCARTHY and I have worked together
to try to make this program stronger
and better.
I have talked to my friend GARRET
GRAVES, who knows a lot about this
stuff, and he has a bill himself. I am
going to look carefully at that bill and
try to work with him to make sure
that we do, in fact, do what I think ev-
erybody on this floor wants: make
these programs work, not only for
those who are damaged, not only for
the communities that are ravaged by
natural disasters, but also for the tax-
payers.
None of us want to defend programs
that don’t work, don’t work quickly,
aren’t paid on time or correctly. No-
body wants to defend that. But we have
worked closely—when I say ‘‘we,’’ my
office has worked closely with the
homebuilders to make sure that the
homebuilders thought this was a pro-
gram that they could work with. They
do.
So I urge my colleagues, in a bipar-
tisan fashion, let us not once again
snatch partisanship from bipartisan-
ship moving progress. So often we do
that. It is a shame, particularly when a
bill is reported out of committee
unanimously.
Is this perfect? It may not be perfect.
I don’t know whether GARRET GRAVES’
bill is perfect. I know he knows a lot
about the subject, and I am working to
talk to him.
But let’s pass this bill, not nec-
essarily in lieu of other pieces of legis-
lation that can improve this process,
but pass this bill as a step towards
progress, a step towards a more ration-
al policy, and a step towards making
sure that we apply our moneys in a ra-
tional, effective way for our citizens,
for our communities, and for our coun-
try.
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Lou-
isiana (Mr. GRAVES).
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
North Carolina for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gen-
tleman from Texas, the gentlewoman
from Missouri, and everybody working
on this.
We have had one of the most intense
periods of disasters in American his-
tory in recent years: Hurricanes Har-
vey, Irma, Maria, Michael, and Flor-
ence pounding Texas, North Carolina,
Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
We have seen impacts in South Caro-
lina and Georgia, as well.
But there is not another State that
has been as disaster-impacted as south
Louisiana, there is not another State:
Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Gustav, Ike,
Isaac. We have had record-high water
in the Mississippi River 2011, 2016, 2018,
and, this year, 2019. There is not a more
impacted State, which means there is
not a more experienced State in terms
of dealing with disasters.
Number one, Mr. Speaker, the com-
mittee in this Congress that has juris-
diction over disasters is the Transpor-
tation Committee, and the Transpor-
tation Committee had no consideration
of this bill whatsoever—none.
We made some major reforms just
last year in the Disaster Recovery Re-
form Act that made major changes in
how we handle disasters.
You see people out there advocating
this legislation who do not represent
disaster victims, and I don’t mean that
in a mean way. I am just telling you
that the folks who have actually dealt
with disasters understand this is
flawed, and let me explain why.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.012 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8921
November 18, 2019
In the immediate aftermath of disas-
ters, what happens is the only funds
that are available are FEMA funds.
You have FEMA funds that are avail-
able for disaster response and direct as-
sistance to individuals.
So you may be able to get some im-
mediate money, you may be able to get
some immediate housing assistance,
hotels, or other things, just an imme-
diate small downpayment, then you get
a loan from the SBA, a second agency
we are bringing into it.
Maybe then you pursue your FEMA
claim through flood insurance with a
different division of FEMA. And, at
some point in the future, you may get
these funds, maybe—maybe—appro-
priated by Congress, and this is for the
long-term recovery.
Now, let me give you the timeline
under this bill.
They have 60 days to actually allo-
cate the funds, whatever that means.
The funds that Congress appropriated
is based upon an allocation.
You have 90 days to file a plan. You
have another 60 days, I believe it is, for
consideration of the plan after it is
submitted, for plan approval, and then
another 60 days for the grants.
And then you still have the certifi-
cation of the State’s program. You still
have the actual hiring of a contractor.
You have accepting applications, ap-
proving applications, and actually giv-
ing the grants.
Mr. Speaker, you are talking about a
year after a disaster, at least, under
this bill.
Further, in my home State of Lou-
isiana, where we have received $1.7 bil-
lion from a 1,000-year storm in 2017, we
ended up having to give a contractor
$350 million to hand out $1.2 billion.
That is, roughly, a 22 percent adminis-
trative cost, money that should be
going to disaster victims. This doesn’t
make sense. It just doesn’t make sense.
One of the reasons I am so frustrated
is because we had a bipartisan agree-
ment with leadership that this bill was
going to move in tandem with another
bill, voted out of the Transportation
Committee unanimously in March.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 1 minute to the gentleman.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. It passed
out of the Transportation Committee—
I will say it again, the committee with
disaster experience, with disaster juris-
diction—passed out of that committee
unanimously.
Mr. Speaker, at the end of the day,
what we all need to be focused on is the
disaster victims. That is what we need
to be doing. We need to be focused on
the disaster victims and focused on
getting assistance to them, not re-
victimizing the disaster victims
through our own government ineffi-
ciency—and I am concerned that that
is exactly what this bill does.
Lastly, Mr. Speaker, let me give you
a statistic to prove my point.
We had a hearing a few months ago
where we had the Economic Develop-
ment Administration, through the De-
partment of Commerce, come testify.
They told us in the meeting that, with-
in 1 year, the disaster funds that were
given to them for disaster recovery ac-
tivities, within 1 year, 79 percent of the
money was out the door.
Comparatively—to look at how HUD
has handled this program, and this bill
does nothing to fix it—comparatively,
HUD has only given out 79 percent of
the program after 6 years for 50 percent
of the grants that were issued. They
still have money sitting around for
Hurricane Sandy.
This is not helping disaster victims. I
urge opposition.
b 1645
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. PRICE), the chair
of the Appropriations Committee Sub-
committee on Transportation, and
Housing and Urban Development, and
Related Agencies.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 3702, the Reforming Disaster
Recovery Act of 2019. I want to thank
the bill’s bipartisan sponsors: Mr.
GREEN, and Mrs. WAGNER, and also
Chairwoman WATERS, and Ranking
Member MCHENRY for their leadership.
I approach this as a Representative
of a disaster-prone State. Citizens in
my State of North Carolina have a spe-
cial reason to appreciate this bill. We
have been hit hard by national disas-
ters. Hurricanes Matthew and Florence
made landfall in 2016 and 2018, just 2
years apart.
The storms upended lives, destroyed
homes and businesses, and caused bil-
lions of dollars in damages. Many com-
munities in my State are still recov-
ering more than 3 years after these
storms.
As the chairman of the Appropria-
tions Subcommittee on Transpor-
tation, and Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, and Related Agencies, I have
worked with colleagues in our delega-
tion, and colleagues from other im-
pacted States and territories, to secure
tens of billions of dollars for HUD’s
CDBG-DR program. We have worked on
this for years. We know the need for
this legislation.
These flexible funds help facilitate
long-term recovery. They can be used
to repair and rebuild housing, to im-
prove infrastructure, and to revitalize
local economies. Unfortunately, Con-
gress has never formally authorized
this program but this bill fixes that.
The absence of an authorization has
contributed to lengthy delays and a
complicated patchwork of require-
ments laid out in numerous Federal
Register notices that grantees must
follow anew every time we have a dis-
aster.
This legislation is overdue. It makes
essential reforms to this program. Spe-
cifically, it eliminates the need to
issue those Federal Register notices
and creates clear statutory deadlines
to get the funding out the door as expe-
ditiously as possible.
It ensures that assistance goes to
low- and moderate-income people who
need it the most. It boosts trans-
parency and public input, and it re-
quires HUD and grantees to collect and
use data to improve program outcomes.
I am especially pleased that the leg-
islation will formally incorporate
‘‘mitigation’’ funding that we have in-
cluded in appropriations bills after re-
cent disasters. Mitigation dollars will
allow communities to strengthen resil-
iency and protect against future haz-
ards, which has long been a priority of
mine and North Carolina’s Governor
Roy Cooper.
Again, I want to thank my colleagues
for their leadership and for working
collaboratively and cooperatively with
the Appropriations Committee to ad-
vance this bipartisan legislation.
I urge all Members to support the
bill.
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, may I
inquire how much time I have remain-
ing?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Missouri has 51⁄2 min-
utes remaining.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Arkan-
sas (Mr. HILL), one of our senior mem-
bers of the Financial Services Com-
mittee who is also the ranking member
on the Subcommittee on National Se-
curity, International Development and
Monetary Policy.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Mrs. WAGNER and my friend Mr.
GREEN from Texas for their work on
this legislation. We don’t do perfect in
the House of Representatives. We do
the best that we can in the House of
Representatives.
We have worked on both sides of the
aisle for years to craft something that
has needed to be dealt with for well
over two decades, which is to authorize
the CDBG program for disasters in the
right way. I congratulate Mr. GREEN
and Mrs. WAGNER for their work.
As a volunteer after Katrina working
in the very poor community of
Lacombe, Louisiana, rebuilding houses,
I saw firsthand the good and bad of
Federal assistance as it relates to post-
hurricane recovery and mitigation.
And I fully understand why this legis-
lation is so badly needed.
In 2013, the inspector general found
that $700 million in CDBG disaster
money following Hurricane Katrina
had gone missing and was unaccounted
for. In March of this year, the GAO
issued a report entitled, ‘‘Better Moni-
toring of Block Grant Funds Is Need-
ed.’’
That is why we are here today, Mr.
Speaker, and that is the leadership
that we have gotten from Mrs. WAGNER
and Mr. GREEN, to bring accountability
to an incredibly important program
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.013 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8922 November 18, 2019
that helps people in need after our
worst moments in American history.
I thank the gentlewoman for her
work, and I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, how
much time do I have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from North Carolina has 3 min-
utes remaining.
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I have listened to the
arguments. I have listened to my good
friend, Mr. PRICE from North Carolina.
Obviously, he and I share the same
home State. And I think you just have
to say that we all want the same thing.
We just have a different idea of how to
get there.
Personally, when I look at the fact
that Hurricane Matthew occurred in
2016, Congress appropriated billions of
dollars, and only a fraction of that here
in 2019—almost 2020, by the way—only
a fraction of that has gotten back to
the victims. That is totally unaccept-
able.
We have Hurricane Florence which
hit in 2018. Congress immediately
passed a disaster supplemental bill
that, again, includes billions for CDBG-
DR. Have we seen anything? Not one
bit. Not one dollar.
So why do we want to codify some-
thing that has been such an adamant,
complete total failure? It is kind of
like taking a clunker and repainting it
and saying: Hey, here is the new car. It
is going to work even better than ever.
Mr. Speaker, I suggest that we scrap
this vehicle and go a different route. I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, may I
make an inquiry? Is the gentleman
ready to close? I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
point of inquiry, please, how much
time does the gentleman from North
Carolina have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from North Carolina has 11⁄2
minutes remaining.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
GRAVES).
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, let me just say, at the end of
the day, what we need to be doing is we
need to be looking at this through the
eyes of the disaster victims. We need to
be looking at this through their eyes.
Having a bill that codifies under law,
locks in that you are talking about 270
days, not from the aftermath of a dis-
aster, but 270 days from when the funds
are actually appropriated by the Con-
gress, which could be a year later. It
could be 2 years later. That doesn’t
make sense.
There is no connectivity between a
FEMA hotel program or mobile home
program and getting money in the
bank to actually help disaster victims.
The bill says that the funds have to be
spent in 6 years.
Mr. Speaker, how about if we subject
Members of Congress to being homeless
for 6 years? How about if we make
them be homeless for 270 days? How
about we make them homeless for 27
hours or 270 minutes. I don’t care. This
doesn’t make sense. It is an inefficient
use of taxpayer dollars. The program
has proven to be inefficient.
The agency has proven that they can-
not administer this, and it just doesn’t
make sense. We need to continue to
look at this through the eyes of the
disaster victims. Look at the Govern-
ment Accountability Office report that
found all sorts of flaws in here, and
let’s actually fix the real problems. I
urge opposition to this legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman from North
Carolina has expired.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Those who oppose this bill, the Re-
forming Disaster Recovery Act, they
oppose it because HUD involvement
has been involved in disaster recovery.
Their opposition is so strong that they
would allow waste, fraud, and abuse to
continue to overrun the program in-
stead of codifying and reforming it.
Their opposition is purely philo-
sophical, Mr. Speaker. It is not prac-
tical. HUD has been charged with ad-
ministering this program since 1993
under Democrat and Republican Presi-
dents, under Democrat and Republican
Speakers. No matter the composition
of the House or the Senate, this pro-
gram has continued.
I have seen no national movement to
end this program and bring the gentle-
man’s theoretical vision into being.
Meanwhile, the program continues to
generate waste, fraud, and abuse. The
gentleman would justify this waste and
abuse because they believe some day
they will successfully convince both
Chambers in Congress and the Presi-
dent to pass legislation that would
make FEMA the sole distributor of dis-
aster funds.
The gentlemen have articulated no
feasible path toward ending the pro-
gram. The gentlemen have no interest
in reforming or fixing the program, and
they have no jurisdiction, Mr. Speaker.
During the 115th Congress I served as
the chair of the Oversight and Inves-
tigations Subcommittee of the Finan-
cial Services Committee. I worked with
committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling, a
conservative through and through, to
draft this legislation with my good
friend and colleague, Mr. GREEN, and
address the flaws in this program.
We must pass this bill in order to end
the waste and abuse, and to ensure that
funding goes quickly to those who need
it, and to recapture the unused funds
responsibly. I am dismayed that my
colleagues in opposition will continue
to waste taxpayer dollars simply be-
cause they have an interagency dis-
agreement that falls outside of their
jurisdiction.
This legislation places greater ac-
countability and controls on taxpayer
money spent after disaster through
codification, a clawback provision, du-
plication of benefit reforms, minimum
procurement standards for States, and
other very important provisions.
This bill, Mr. Speaker, is effective
and responsive policy, and I urge all of
my colleagues to support this piece of
legislation. I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
how much time do I have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Texas has 11 minutes re-
maining.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, for 26 years we have had
the circumstances that we are trying
to correct with this bill. This bill is not
perfect, but for 26 years, it has been an
opportunity for those who desire to do
otherwise to bring the cause before the
Congress of the United States of Amer-
ica.
It is ironic that this cause would be
brought to the Congress at the time we
are about to pass significant legisla-
tion that the Governor of North Caro-
lina agrees with.
I have a letter that is signed by many
Governors, one of whom is the Gov-
ernor of North Carolina. I won’t read it
in its entirety, but I do think one line
is salient and important. It reads:
‘‘We’’—all of these Governors—‘‘ask
that Congress pass it as quickly as pos-
sible.’’ Pass it as quickly as possible.
They are talking about this bill, the
Governor of North Carolina.
I would also add, Mr. Speaker, that
FEMA has indicated on the record that
it does not desire to have this bill
under the jurisdiction of FEMA.
In fact, I have a statement from the
associate administrator for response
and recovery, Mr. Jeff Byard, and it
reads: ‘‘I would love to work with the
committee about expanding our au-
thorities . . .’’ he is talking about the
Financial Services Committee. ‘‘. . . to
do a different means of housing, but
not to take on other agencies’ respon-
sibilities or grants.’’ He is talking
about our agency, HUD. They, meaning
FEMA, do not want to take on the re-
sponsibilities that HUD has already
within its wheelhouse, as they say.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I would also add
this: The Committee on Financial
Services is familiar with these kinds of
concerns associated with disaster re-
lief. We have the Community Develop-
ment Block Grant program under our
jurisdiction. We have the National
Flood Insurance Program under our ju-
risdiction.
b 1700
And as a Member, I would tell you
that I was born in Louisiana. I know
what New Orleans is like. I was there
after Katrina. I saw what happened,
and I also saw thousands of people
come to my district in Houston, Texas,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:58 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.016 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8923
November 18, 2019
where they were welcomed. They were
welcomed, and many of them are still
in my district in Houston, Texas.
This is not to say that my colleagues
have done anything wrong. I am mere-
ly indicating that I have some under-
standing about what is happening in
Louisiana. But I also know what is
happening in Texas.
Mr. Speaker, in Texas, within a 3-
year period, we had billion-dollar
floods each year. We had Hurricane
Harvey, the last, and Hurricane Harvey
took lives and inundated our city. It
was like something we have not seen
before and, arguably, the country has
not seen before, but we suffered
through it. And we want to make it
easier for those persons who were vic-
timized, such as the ones who were vic-
timized with Harvey, to have a better
means by which they can acquire long-
term relief.
FEMA deals with immediate relief,
emergency relief. HUD is dealing with
long-term relief. We are dealing with
mitigation. Mitigation can take years
to accomplish because some of the
structures that have to be rebuilt can
be rebuilt in no short order. It takes
time. It takes plans. You have to in-
volve various agencies to rebuild these
structures. We are talking about long-
term relief. That is what this bill pro-
vides.
This bill also is about the business of
making sure—and I must commend Mr.
HOYER for this—that that mitigation
relief that the Governors that I spoke
of wanted is contained in the bill. The
Governors called to our attention the
need for mitigation relief, as did the
builders. And Mr. HOYER, working with
the builders, crafted the mitigation
language that is going to make a dif-
ference in the future.
It is not a perfect bill. We will not
have a perfect bill in this House—un-
less everybody agrees with me, and
that is not likely to happen. It is a
good bill and all of my friends on the
other side are good people, every one of
them. I have an inordinate amount of
respect for them, and I support their
efforts to do more in the area with
FEMA, but I do not support efforts to
remove this program from HUD.
HUD has had it for 26 years—hasn’t
been perfect—but we are trying to per-
fect some of the issues associated with
mitigation, some of the issues associ-
ated with disaster relief. And we are
doing a fairly good job with this bill—
not a perfect bill, but it is a good bill.
And I would hope that my col-
leagues—understanding that over the
last 26 years, we haven’t had a FEMA
bill brought to the floor and passed,
and we now have the opportunity to
pass this HUD bill, my hope is that we
will get it passed. My belief is this is
the right bill for the right time. It not
only makes sense, it makes dollars and
cents. It will save money and it will
save some lives.
Mr. Speaker, I would just mention a
few more entities, if I may, with ref-
erence to endorsement: the National
Housing Resource Center; the National
Fair Housing Alliance; the National
Low Income Housing Coalition; Dis-
aster Housing Recovery Coalition; and,
of course, we have the Consortium for
Citizens with Disabilities Housing Task
Force. Also, Disaster Law Project; En-
terprise Community Partners; Fair
Share Housing Center; and we have the
Hispanic Federation. Also, Local Ini-
tiatives Support Coalition; National
Association of Councils on Develop-
mental Disabilities; National Coalition
for Healthy Housing; National Commu-
nity Development Association; Na-
tional Law Center on Homelessness and
Poverty; Paralyzed Veterans of Amer-
ica; and Texas Low Income Housing In-
formation Service. And many more.
Mr. Speaker, as I bring this to clo-
sure, I include in the RECORD a letter
from the Governors as it relates to this
legislation.
OCTOBER 9, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Majority Leader,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. CHUCK SCHUMER,
Minority Leader,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI, MINORITY LEADER
MCCARTHY, MAJORITY LEADER MCCONNELL,
AND MINORITY LEADER SCHUMER: Our states
are full of determined, tough people. For
generations, our families have weathered
brutal hurricanes, killer tornadoes, sus-
tained flooding, and devastating forest fires.
But recent history tells us there’s a new nor-
mal when it comes to these natural disasters
and if we don’t rise to the challenge, they
will get the best of us.
As these natural disasters continue to in-
crease in frequency and devastation, we ap-
preciate relief and recovery assistance from
the federal government. However, there are
critical reforms needed to ensure long-term
disaster recovery programs function more ef-
ficiently.
Right now, long-term federal disaster re-
covery assistance, in the form of Community
Development Block Grant—Disaster Recov-
ery (CDBG–DR) funding controlled by the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment (HUD), gets passed by Congress
and announced with great fanfare, but af-
fected states are left to wait months—some-
times years—before HUD publishes the Fed-
eral Register. A Federal Register is only the
first required step in a lengthy and bureau-
cratic approval process setting out how that
money can be put into action.
CDBG–DR funds are routinely appropriated
after natural disasters, but the program is
unauthorized, meaning states must wait for
new Federal Register guidelines after each
round of funding is announced. There are
currently over 60 Federal Register Notices
on record for CDBG–DR, with grantees facing
variable, overlapping and even contradictory
details.
Many of us have met with the President,
administration officials, and our Congres-
sional representatives to push for changes.
We need Congress to require HUD to publish
program requirements in the Federal Reg-
ister within a much shorter timeframe. Bet-
ter yet, Congress could get the money to the
people who need it even faster by formally
authorizing the CDBG-DR program so that
Federal Register instructions can be signifi-
cantly standardized and expedited. Bipar-
tisan legislation to do this has been intro-
duced in both the House and the Senate, with
a clear intent to balance speed-to-need and
accountability for public resources. We ask
that Congress pass it as quickly as possible.
Another critical reform would create a uni-
versal application for disaster survivors that
would be shared among FEMA, HUD and the
Small Business Administration so people
busy with recovery only need to fill out one
application. Combining this with seamless
interagency data sharing would enable sig-
nificantly better communication and coordi-
nation, as well as faster disbursement of
funds and improved oversight and account-
ability.
We must all keep fighting for survivors re-
covering from these disasters, working to re-
build their lives and protect themselves from
the next catastrophe. We owe it to them to
deliver on our mission for stronger, smarter,
more resilient communities.
Sincerely,
GOVERNOR ROY COOPER,
State of North Caro-
lina.
GOVERNOR JB PRITZKER,
State of Illinois.
GOVERNOR MIKE PARSON,
State of Missouri.
GOVERNOR TONY EVERS,
State of Wisconsin.
GOVERNOR KAY IVEY,
State of Alabama.
GOVERNOR ERIC HOLCOMB,
State of Indiana.
GOVERNOR RALPH
NORTHAM,
State of Virginia.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
with this said, I thank my colleagues
again. I consider them all honorable
people, and I beg that my colleagues
would support this legislation that is
26 years in the making. If it fails, I
know not when we will stand in this
position again.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I am providing
this statement to explain the Reforming Dis-
aster Recovery Act of 2019 (H.R. 3702), as
ordered reported to the House of Representa-
tives by the Committee on Financial Services,
along with additional amendments made since
committee consideration:
The Community Development Block Grant
(CDBG), administered by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD), is
the federal government’s largest and most
widely available source of financial assist-
ance for state and local government-directed
neighborhood revitalization, housing reha-
bilitation, and economic development activi-
ties. One of the national objectives of the
CDBG program allows communities and
states to use program funds to address seri-
ous and immediate public health and safety
threats. Accordingly, Congress has used the
CDBG program’s framework to provide addi-
tional assistance (CDBG–DR) for state and
local recovery activities in the wake of
presidentially-declared disasters. In response
to a disaster, Congress must pass each sup-
plemental CDBG-DR appropriation on a case-
by-case basis. To date, Congress has appro-
priated $87 billion in CDBG–DR assistance.
CDBG–DR grants are generally governed
by the underlying Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974, (42 U.S. 5301 et. seq)
(‘‘CDBG statute’’) and rules and the relevant
supplemental appropriation act. A supple-
mental appropriation act providing disaster
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.018 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8924 November 18, 2019
assistance typically identifies the amount
appropriated, the period covered, the eligible
uses of funds (to the extent that they are dif-
ferent from the underlying CDBG statute
and rules), and the certifications required for
assistance. For each supplemental appropria-
tion, HUD publishes a corresponding Federal
Register notice establishing the allocation of
funds to eligible grantees and describing the
rules, statutes, waivers, and alternative re-
quirements that apply to allocations under
the notice.
In July 2018, the HUD Office of Inspector
General (HUD OIG) found that HUD’s use of
multiple Federal Register notices to admin-
ister CDBG–DR assistance created challenges
for grantees. Specifically, HUD OIG found,
among other challenges, that grantees had
to navigate confusing and sometimes dupli-
cative requirements contained in multiple
notices. HUD OIG recommended that HUD
codify the CD BG–DR program to: (1) estab-
lish a permanent framework for future disas-
ters; (2) reduce the existing volume of Fed-
eral Register notices; (3) provide a standard-
ized set of rules for all grantees; and (4) en-
sure that grants are closed in a timely man-
ner. Further, the GAO has found that his-
torically, disaster relief has been inequitably
distributed among people of different races
and ethnicities, economic classes, and home-
ownership status. As a result, some of the
largest HUD fair housing settlements have
come after major disasters, as states and lo-
calities receiving disaster recovery grants
often did not serve affected families equi-
tably.
H.R. 3702 adopts the HUD OIG rec-
ommendations by permanently authorizing
the CDBG–DR program, as well as addressing
concerns that have been raised about the ad-
ministration of the program. Among other
requirements, the bill would mandate that:
(1) HUD allocate CDBG–DR funds within 60
days of a Congressional appropriation; (2)
HUD coordinate with FEMA, and the Small
Business Administration (SBA) to better im-
prove data sharing; and (3) any CDBG–DR
funded new construction, repair, or rehabili-
tation utilize minimum federal standards for
flood risk mitigation and storm water pro-
tection as well as utilizing the latest na-
tional consensus-based building codes and
standards for construction in hazard-prone
areas. Additionally, H.R. 3702 would allow
cities and counties with well-developed dis-
aster relief resources to become precertified
to receive funding more quickly and estab-
lish a reserve fund to be used to provide
technical assistance and capacity building to
help communities develop their action plans.
The bill would also require HUD develop best
practices that communities can use for dis-
aster recovery.
The act includes two sections:
Section 1 states that the title of the bill is
the Reforming Disaster Recovery Act of 2019.
Section 2 is entitled the. ‘‘Community De-
velopment Block Grant Disaster Recovery
Program.’’ This section amends Title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) by adding a new
sections 123 and 124 to permanently author-
ize the CDBG–DR program and establish a
CDBG–DR reserve fund.
The new section 123 is entitled ‘‘CD BG-
Disaster Recovery Assistance.’’ Subsection
(a) of the new section 123 authorizes the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) to provide Community Development
Block Grant-Disaster Recovery (CDBG–DR)
assistances to States, including Puerto Rico,
units of general local government, and In-
dian tribes for necessary expenses for au-
thorized activities related to disaster relief,
resiliency, long-term recovery, restoration
of infrastructure and housing mitigation,
and economic revitalization in the most im-
pacted and distressed areas affected by Presi-
dentially-declared disasters.
Subsection (b) of the new section 123 pro-
vides that when allocating funding, the Sec-
retary of HUD is required to include an addi-
tional amount of funding for mitigation that
is not less than 45 percent of the amount al-
located to a grantee for unmet needs. The
Secretary of HUD must allocate funds to
grantees within 60 days of the date of enact-
ment of an Act making funds available for
disaster assistance. The deadline for alloca-
tion of CD BG-DR funds shall not apply if the
Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) has not made sufficient information
available to the Secretary of HUD regarding
relevant unmet recovery needs to make allo-
cations in accordance with the deadline. The
Secretary of HUD must notify Congress of
progress on or delay in receiving the nec-
essary information within 60 days following
the declaration of a major disaster and
monthly thereafter until all necessary infor-
mation is received. The Secretary of HUD is
required to disburse funding allocated to a
grantee, but only if the grantee is in sub-
stantial compliance with the requirements
of this section.
The new subsection (b) also requires the
Secretary of HUD to coordinate with other
agencies, including FEMA, and the SBA, to
obtain data on recovery needs when nec-
essary regarding disaster benefits, and share
with FEMA and make publicly available, all
data collected, possessed, or analyzed during
the course of a disaster recovery for which
assistance was provided.
This new subsection (b) also requires that
funds made available must be used in accord-
ance with section 312 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act, as amended by section 1210 of the
Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 (Divi-
sion D, Public Law 115–254), and such rules as
may be prescribed. Households having the
lowest incomes must be prioritized for as-
sistance under this section until all unmet
needs are satisfied for families having an in-
come of up to 120 percent of the median for
the area. In any case in which a CDBG-DR
grantee provides assistance that duplicates
benefits, the new subsection (b) requires that
the grantees bear responsibility for absorb-
ing such cost of any duplicative assistance
and return that amount to the grantee’s ac-
count or be subject to remedies for non-
compliance under Section 111 of the Housing
and Community Development Act of 1974. In
carrying out this subsection, the Secretary
of HUD shall protect personally identifiable
information.
Subsection (c) of the new section 123 pro-
vides that no later than 90 days after the al-
location of funds, the grantee must submit a
plan to the Secretary of HUD for approval
detailing the proposed use of all funds, which
shall include how the funds will be used to
address disaster relief, identification of offi-
cials administering the disaster funds, an
agreement to share data with Federal agen-
cies, and a plan for ensuring compliance with
the Fair Housing Act. The new subsection (c)
also requires the Secretary of HUD to specify
criteria for approval of a grantee’s disaster
assistance plan, including approval of sub-
stantial amendments to the plan. The Sec-
retary of HUD shall disapprove a plan if (1)
the Secretary determines that the plan does
not meet the approval criteria, (2) the Sec-
retary determines that the plan does not
provide equitable allocation of resources be-
tween infrastructure and housing projects or
between homeowners, rents and persons ex-
periencing homelessness, (3) the Secretary
determines that the plan does not provide a
credible plan for ensuring compliance with
the Fair Housing Act, (4) the Secretary de-
termines that the plan does not prioritize
the one-for-one replacement of damaged fed-
erally subsidized affordable housing, or (5)
the Secretary determines the plan does not
provide applicants for assistance notice by
the grantee of the applicant’s right to appeal
any adverse action or inaction.
In developing the action plan, the new sub-
section (c) provides that grantees, at a min-
imum, must (1) consult with affected stake-
holders, including residents, local govern-
ments, and public housing authorities, to as-
sess needs, (2) publish the plan, including on-
line for at least 14 days, (3) ensure equal ac-
cess to individuals with disabilities or with
limited English proficiency, and (4) publish
the plan in a way that allows stakeholders a
reasonable opportunity to review and pro-
vide feedback on the plan. In the event of a
disapproved plan, the Secretary of HUD shall
permit a grantee to revise and resubmit its
plan. The Secretary of HUD shall approve or
disapprove a plan within 60 days of the plan
being submitted. If a plan is disapproved,
within 15 days after the disapproval, the Sec-
retary shall inform the applicant of the rea-
sons for disapproval and the actions the ap-
plicant could take to meet the criteria for
approval. Applicants have 45 days following
the date of the disapproval to submit amend-
ments or resubmit the action plan to the
Secretary of HUD. The Secretary of HUD has
30 days to approve or disapprove the plan
amendment or resubmission. The Secretary
of HUD shall ensure that all grant agree-
ments are executed within 60 days of ap-
proval of the grantee’s plan.
Subsection (d) of the new section 123 re-
quires the Secretary of HUD to develop and
maintain a system to ensure that each
grantee has an approved process for financial
controls and procurement, and adequate pro-
cedures to ensure all eligible families and in-
dividuals are approved for and provided as-
sistance, as well as to prevent duplication of
benefits and detect waste, fraud and abuse,
and to maintain publicly accessible websites
that make available information regarding
all disaster recovery activities. The Sec-
retary must provide, by regulation or guide-
line, a method for qualitatively and
quantitively evaluating compliance. As a
condition of making any grant, the Sec-
retary of HUD shall certify in advance that
the grantee has the proper financial proc-
esses and procedures in place.
Subsection (e)(I) of the new section 123 pro-
vides that a grantee may not use less than
seven percent but no more than 10 percent of
its grant funds for administrative fees. The
Secretary of HUD may establish a series of
percentage limitations on a grantee’s admin-
istrative fees, but only if such limitations
are based on the amount of grant funds re-
ceived, such series limitation is lower for
grantees receiving a greater amount of grant
funds and higher for grantees receiving a
lesser amount of grant funds, and in no case
may a grantee use more than 10 percent of
grant funds for administrative fees. Sub-
section (e)(2) provides that amounts under
this section may not be used for activities
reimbursable by FEMA or the Army Corps of
Engineers.
The new subsection (e)(3) also provides
that the Secretary of HUD may use one per-
cent of CD BG–DR appropriated amounts ex-
ceeding $1 billion for administrative costs, of
which, under new subsection (e)(4), 15 per-
cent of that amount shall be transferred to
the HUD IG for audits, reviews, oversight,
evaluation, and investigations relating to
amounts made available for use under this
section. The new subsection (e)(5) authorizes
the lesser of 0.1 percent or $15 million for ca-
pacity building and technical assistance.
This new subsection (e)(6) provides that
each grantee shall use not less than 15 per-
cent of funds for comprehensive mitigation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.008 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8925
November 18, 2019
planning, except that the Secretary may es-
tablish a lower percentage for grantees re-
ceiving a grant exceeding $1 billion. Under
the new subsection (e), each grantee must
ensure that comprehensive mitigation plans
are coordinated and aligned with existing
comprehensive, land use, transportation, and
economic development plans, and specifi-
cally analyze multiple types of hazard expo-
sures and risks. Each grantee must also co-
ordinate and align mitigation planning with
other mitigation projects funded by FEMA,
the Army Corps of Engineers, the Forest
Service, and other relevant agencies. Mitiga-
tion planning funds can be used to purchase
data and development or updating of risk
mapping for all relevant hazards. The new
subsection (e)(6) also directs Grantees to
prioritize the expenditure of mitigation dol-
lars for programs and projects primarily ben-
efitting low- and moderate-income house-
holds with the greatest risk of harm from
natural disasters.
The new subsection (e)(7) provides that
after consultation with the FEMA Adminis-
trator, the Secretary of HUD shall make no
CDBG–DR funds available for the construc-
tion, reconstruction, or installation of any
infrastructure or residential, commercial or
public buildings in hazard-prone areas that
does not, at a minimum, comply with the
lasts published editions of relevant national
consensus-based codes, and specifications
and standards referenced therein, except
that the new subsection (e) provides that
nothing that in the new section 123 prohibits
grantees from requiring higher standards.
The new subsection (e) provides that compli-
ance with this section may be certified by a
registered design professional.
The new subsection (e)(7) also provides a
number of definitions of key terms used.
‘‘Hazard-prone areas’’ are defined as areas
identified by the Secretary of HUD, in con-
sultation with the FEMA Administrator, at
risk from natural hazards that threaten
property damage or health, safety, and wel-
fare, such as floods, wildfires, earthquakes,
tornados and high winds. The Secretary may
consider future risks and the likelihood such
risks may pose to protecting property, and
health, safety, and general welfare when de-
termining or modifying a hazard-prone area.
‘‘Latest published editions’’ is defined, with
respect to national consensus-based codes,
and specifications and standards referenced
therein, the two most recent published edi-
tions, including amendments that were
adopted by State, local, tribal, or territorial
governments to incorporate the latest haz-
ard-resistant designs and establish criteria
for the design, construction, and mainte-
nance of structures for the purpose of pro-
tecting the health, safety and general wel-
fare of people against disasters.
The new subsection (e)(8) provides that the
Secretary of HUD shall require than any
structure that is located in a special flood
hazard area, and that is newly constructed or
substantially improved using CDBG–DR
funds must be elevated with the lowest floor,
including the basement, at least two feet
above the base flood level, except that crit-
ical facilities, including hospitals, nursing
homes, and other public facilities providing
social and economic lifelines (as defined by
the Secretary of HUD), must be elevated 3
feet above the base flood level or higher if re-
quired by the previous section. The new sub-
section (e)(8) also provides that for existing
structures consisting of multi-family hous-
ing and row houses, the Secretary of HUD
shall consult with the FEMA Administrator
and provide for alternative forms of mitiga-
tion (apart from elevation) and shall exempt
flood level requirements for those structures
that meet the standards of the alternative
form of mitigation.
Subsection (f) of the new section 123 pro-
vides that in administering any CDBG–DR
funds, the Secretary of HUD may not allow a
grantee to use its funds outside the scope of
its original application, may not permit a
grantee to amend a plan to retroactively ap-
prove a beneficiary’s use of funds other than
for approved activities, and shall prohibit a
grantee from delegating the responsibility
for inherent government functions.
Subsection (g) of the new section 123 pro-
vides that the Secretary shall require each
grantee to provide ongoing training to its
staff and sub-grantees regarding grant man-
agement.
Subsection (h) of the new section 123 pro-
vides that in procuring property or services
paid for with CDBG–DR funds, a grantee
shall follow its own procurement processes
and procedures or must comply with such
processes or procedures established through
regulation by the Secretary of HUD. A
grantee’s processes and procedures must (1)
provide for a full and open competition and
require cost or price analysis, (2) include re-
quirements for sub-grantees, (3) specify
methods of procurement and their applica-
bility, (4) include standards of conduct for
employees, and (5) ensure that all purchase
orders and contracts include any clause re-
quired by Federal Statute, Executive Order,
or implementing regulation. The new sub-
section (h) provides that if the Secretary of
HUD finds that a grantee’s procurement
processes and procedures do not comply with
this section, the Secretary shall provide the
grantee with specific written notice of the
elements of noncompliance, provide the
grantee a reasonable period of time to come
into compliance, and allow the grantee to
proceed with procuring property and services
only if the Secretary determines the grantee
is making a good faith effort to effectuate
compliance with this section.
Subsection (i) of the new section 123 pro-
vides that funding made available under this
section shall not be considered relevant to
the non-disaster CDBG formula allocations.
Except for those statutes that relate to fair
housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards
and the environment, subsection (j) of the
new section 123 authorizes the Secretary of
HUD to waive or specify alternative require-
ments for any statute or regulation when the
Secretary makes a public finding that there
is good cause that the waiver or the alter-
native requirement would be consistent with
the overall goal of CDBG–DR. The new sub-
section (j) provides that any waiver shall not
take effect before the expiration of the five-
day period beginning upon the publication of
notice in the Federal Register of such waiv-
er, and that the Secretary of HUD shall not
reduce the percentage of CDBG–DR funds
that must be used for activities that benefit
persons of low and moderate income to less
than 70 percent, unless the Secretary speci-
fies that there is compelling need and that
funds are not necessary to address the hous-
ing needs of low- and moderate-income resi-
dents.
Subsection (k) of the new section 123 pro-
vides that grantees may adopt, without re-
view or public comment, any environment
review approved by a Federal agency
Subsection (l) of the new subsection 123
provides that for each major disaster for
which CDBG–DR assistance is made avail-
able under this section, the Secretary of
HUD shall collect information regarding all
recovery efforts and shall make the informa-
tion available to the public, while ensuring
personally identifiable information is not
made publicly available. Under this sub-
section, the Secretary of HUD may make full
and unredacted information available to aca-
demic and research institutions to study the
equitable distribution of recovery funds, ad-
herence to civil right protections, and other
areas.
Subsection (m) of the new subsection 123
provides that the Secretary of HUD shall di-
rect the Office of Community Planning and
Development to collaborate with the Office
of Policy Development and Research to iden-
tify best practices for grantees on issues re-
lated to disaster recovery to be published by
the Secretary of HUD as a compilation. After
disseminating the compilation, the Sec-
retary of HUD must issue regulations that
establishes requirements grantees must fol-
low when using best practices to qualify for
expedited review and approval. The guidance
must establish standard language grantees
can include in their action plans and stand-
ardized programs and activities based on
best practices.
Subsection (n) of the new section 123 re-
quires the Secretary of HUD to establish a
program under this subsection to pre-certify
eligible grantees for assistance. To be eligi-
ble for precertification, a locality shall dem-
onstrate compliance with the requirement of
this section and shall have previously re-
ceived CDBG–DR assistance in connection
with two or more Presidentially-declared
disasters. The pre-certification shall be ef-
fective for a term of 10 years.
Subsection (o) of the new section 123 re-
quires the Secretary of HUD to recapture
any unused CDBG–DR funds if the grantee
notifies the Secretary that it has completed
all activities provided under the grant or the
grantee has not spent all or part of the ap-
propriated funds within 6 years. Under the
new subsection (o) the Secretary of HUD
may, subject to authority provided in ad-
vance by appropriations Act, transfer unused
funds to the Secretary of the Treasury for
deposit into the Community Development
Block Grant Disaster Recovery Reserve
Fund established under section 124, except
that the Secretary of HUD may permit the
grantee to retain amounts needed to close
out the grant. Under the new subsection (o),
the Secretary of HUD is required to extend
the time period by not more than four years
if the Secretary of HUD waives the six-year
time requirement and submits a written jus-
tification to the House and Senate Commit-
tees on Appropriations. Under the new sub-
section (o), after the initial extension period,
the Secretary may provide an additional ex-
tension of no more than four years to insular
areas and shall provide additional technical
assistance to help increase capacity within
the insular area receiving the extension and
submit a written justification for the exten-
sion to the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations.
Subsection (p) of the new section 123 pro-
vides a number of definitions applicable to
the new section.
New section 124 is entitled ‘‘Community
Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery
Reserve Fund.’’ This section establishes the
Community Development Block Grant Dis-
aster Recovery Reserve Fund, which shall
consist of amounts appropriated to the Re-
serve Fund or recaptured funds as specified
under this section. Funds shall be available
only for providing technical assistance and
capacity building for grantees to facilitate
disaster recovery planning and increase ca-
pacity to administer assistance.
New section 124 also provides that the Sec-
retary of HUD shall issue proposed rules to
carry out sections 123 and 124 within six
months of H.R. 3702 being enacted, and issue
final regulations within 12 months of H.R.
3702 being enacted.
H.R. 3702 is an important step in putting
forward a framework for HUD to address dis-
asters that affect communities across the
United States. I commend Representative
Green and Representative Wagner for their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.008 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8926 November 18, 2019
dedicated efforts to bring this bill before the
House, and I urge all members to support
this legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, H.R. 3702, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
TRIBAL ACCESS TO HOMELESS
ASSISTANCE ACT
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4029) to amend the McKinney-
Vento Homeless Assistance Act to en-
able Indian Tribes and tribally des-
ignated housing entities to apply for,
receive, and administer grants and sub-
grants under the Continuum of Care
Program of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4029
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Tribal Ac-
cess to Homeless Assistance Act’’.
SEC. 2. PARTICIPATION OF INDIAN TRIBES AND
TRIBALLY DESIGNATED HOUSING
ENTITIES IN CONTINUUM OF CARE
PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title IV of the McKinney-
Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
11360 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 401 (42 U.S.C. 11360)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (10)
through (33) as paragraphs (12) through (35),
respectively;
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (8) and (9)
as paragraphs (9) and (10), respectively;
(C) by inserting after paragraph (7) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(8) FORMULA AREA.—The term ‘formula
area’ has the meaning given the term in sec-
tion 1000.302 of title 24, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, or any successor regulation.’’;
(D) in paragraph (9), as so redesignated, by
inserting ‘‘a formula area,’’ after ‘‘non-
entitlement area,’’; and
(E) by inserting after paragraph (10), as so
redesignated, the following:
‘‘(11) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘Indian
Tribe’ has the meaning given the term ‘In-
dian tribe’ in section 4 of the Native Amer-
ican Housing Assistance and Self-Determina-
tion Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103).’’; and
(2) in subtitle C (42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.), by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 435. PARTICIPATION OF INDIAN TRIBES
AND TRIBALLY DESIGNATED HOUS-
ING ENTITIES.
‘‘Notwithstanding any other provision of
this title, for purposes of this subtitle, an In-
dian Tribe or tribally designated housing en-
tity (as defined in section 4 of the Native
American Housing Assistance and Self-De-
termination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103))
may—
‘‘(1) be a collaborative applicant or eligible
entity; or
‘‘(2) receive grant amounts from another
entity that receives a grant directly from
the Secretary, and use the amounts in ac-
cordance with this subtitle.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of contents in section
101(b) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless As-
sistance Act (Public Law 100–77; 101 Stat. 482)
is amended by inserting after the item relat-
ing to section 434 the following:
‘‘Sec. 435. Participation of Indian Tribes and
tribally designated housing en-
tities.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) and the gentle-
woman from Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise in support of H.R. 4029, the Tribal
Eligibility for Homeless Assistance
Grants Act of 2019, which makes Tribes
and tribally designated housing enti-
ties eligible to receive McKinney-
Vento Homeless Assistance Grant fund-
ing.
Mr. Speaker, Native Americans and
Alaska Natives face some of the worst
housing and living conditions in the
United States. They face high poverty
rates, unemployment, overcrowding.
Standard housing conditions are not
something that they enjoy; in fact,
they enjoy substandard conditions.
And they have unique issues for devel-
oping housing.
As a result, Native Americans tend
to be overrepresented among the home-
less population. Despite the prevalence
of homeless in Native communities,
Tribes and tribally designated housing
entities are not currently eligible to
compete for HUD McKinney-Vento
Continuum of Care grants.
Current housing assistance for Na-
tive communities fall substantially
short of meeting their affordable hous-
ing needs, and this bill would direct
more housing resources to address
homelessness on Tribal lands. I am
proud to see that Members have
worked together to put forth a bipar-
tisan bill to better address homeless-
ness among Native Americans and
Alaska Natives.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from Washington (Mr. HECK) for intro-
ducing this important legislation that
is aimed to help address Tribal home-
lessness. I urge all Members to vote
‘‘yes’’ on this important legislation,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4029, the Tribal Eligibility for Home-
less Assistance Grants Act of 2019.
According to a study from the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment, homelessness on Tribal
lands often looks different from many
other areas of the country. Tribal
homelessness often results in over-
crowding in housing that is already in
short supply and rapidly aging and de-
teriorating.
Sadly, 16 percent of households in
Tribal areas are overcrowded compared
to just 2 percent nationally. These
overcrowded conditions hide the prob-
lem of homelessness throughout these
communities.
In 1996, the Native American Housing
Assistance and Self-Determination Act
was passed to give Tribes one larger
and more flexible block grant to meet
their housing needs. As a result, Tribes
are ineligible for HUD’s individual
housing assistance programs.
H.R. 4029 would allow Tribal commu-
nities to be eligible to apply for and re-
ceive HUD’s local Continuum of Care
grants. Making Tribes eligible recipi-
ents for homeless assistance grants is a
first step towards fixing Tribal housing
issues and solving this hidden crisis of
homelessness on Tribal lands.
Mr. Speaker, I applaud the sponsors
of H.R. 4029, Mr. HECK, and our former
colleague, Mr. Duffy. I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
Washington (Mr. HECK), a member of
the Financial Services Committee and
the sponsor of this legislation.
Mr. HECK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in strong support of H.R. 4029, the bi-
partisan Tribal Access to Homeless As-
sistance Act.
As Congress is working to alleviate
our national housing crisis, we also
need to make sure our Federal assist-
ance is getting to those that are hard-
est hit. And Indian country is facing a
severe pervasive housing crisis. There
is a widespread lack of affordable hous-
ing.
Mr. Speaker, 38 percent of Native
American households are considered
cost-burdened by high housing costs.
Insufficient stock of affordable safe
housing in Indian country also results
in increased homelessness. A study
commissioned by HUD—I presume the
same one referred to by my friend from
Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER)—found that
there are between 42,000 and 85,000
homeless Native Americans living on
Tribal lands. That is several times the
number of people who are homeless in
Seattle and in San Francisco com-
bined. And unfortunately, both cities
are known for having significant home-
less populations.
On Tribal lands, homelessness also
leads to overcrowding. Families double
up by taking in friends and loved ones
who can no longer afford their housing.
And as has been indicated, 16 percent of
Native American and Alaskan Native
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:58 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.009 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8927
November 18, 2019
households experience overcrowding. It
is worth repeating—16 percent com-
pared to 2 percent in the general popu-
lation.
So, here is the thing about homeless-
ness and overcrowding that we all
know intuitively but it behooves us to
be reminded of it: When you are home-
less or in an overcrowded cir-
cumstance, it is nearly impossible to
find a meaningful job or go to school or
otherwise engage in the community.
When you are constantly worried about
shelter, you are unable to deal with
whatever other issues you are con-
fronted with in your life, whether it is
health or holding down a job or sub-
stance abuse.
I have also considered that one of the
most important duties I have as a
Member of Congress is ensuring the
sovereignty of the four Tribes in the
district I have a privilege to represent
and the 29 Tribes in my State, and to
help them as they work to help their
Tribal members on a range of issues,
including combatting homelessness in
Indian country. I know you all feel the
same way.
That is our Federal trust responsi-
bility, and that is why I introduced
this legislation.
Despite the prevalence of homeless-
ness in Indian country, Tribes and
Tribally designated housing entities
simply cannot access the homeless as-
sistance grants offered by HUD, includ-
ing the Continuum of Care program,
and this bill fixes that.
By establishing Tribal eligibility to
compete for HUD McKinney-Vento
Continuum of Care grants, this bill
would improve Tribes’ ability to com-
bat homelessness and, frankly, poten-
tially help tens of thousands of people.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman
YOUNG who is also a part of this bipar-
tisan deal, and former Congressman
Duffy, for joining me in introducing
this bill.
I hope all my colleagues will join me
in supporting H.R. 4029 today. And fi-
nally, let us note, this bill is an impor-
tant first step to fulfill our obligations
to Indian country, but to be clear, this
is not the last step.
I hope to soon introduce a bill to re-
authorize and update the Native Amer-
ican Housing Assistance and Self-De-
termination Act—we call it NAHASDA
for short. NAHASDA is a critically im-
portant program that helps provide
safe and affordable housing to Tribes
and their members.
I look forward to working with Chair
WATERS in the full committee on a bi-
partisan NAHASDA bill as we continue
to discuss how we can continue or keep
our obligations to Indian country.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
as much time as he may consume to
the gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. BISHOP).
Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman,
Congresswoman WAGNER, for yielding.
As the Representative of North Caro-
lina’s Ninth Congressional District, I
am proud to represent 55,000 members
of the Lumbee Tribe.
When I served in the North Carolina
General Assembly, just before this spe-
cial election in September, I cospon-
sored legislation clarifying North Caro-
lina’s recognition of the Lumbee.
It became law just in July.
b 1715
H.R. 4029 would allow the Lumbee to
apply directly for homeless assistance
grants instead of having to rely on
nonprofits or other governmental enti-
ties.
This commonsense proposal will em-
power the Lumbee to act directly to
provide shelter and other services to
their own members and will not cost
the Federal Government one penny.
The Lumbee are in the best position
to help their own Tribal members, and
this bill will empower them to do so.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 4029.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I urge
my colleagues once again to support
H.R. 4029, the Tribal Eligibility for
Homeless Assistance Grants Act of
2019, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I, too, thank all of my
colleagues for the bipartisan support
this bill has received. I thank the spon-
sor of this legislation, Mr. HECK, again,
for bringing it forward. It is an impor-
tant piece of legislation.
I would like to say this: Native
Americans and Tribal communities
have, for too long, suffered from a lack
of funding for housing and homeless-
ness assistance despite the growing
need for safe, decent, and affordable
homes on Tribal lands.
Mr. Speaker, this is a bill that will
bring some relief. It is not perfect. Mr.
HECK has said it is a first step.
I urge my colleagues to join me, Mr.
HECK, and Mrs. WAGNER in supporting
this piece of legislation, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, H.R. 4029, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
IMPROVING CORPORATE GOVERN-
ANCE THROUGH DIVERSITY ACT
OF 2019
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 5084) to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to require the
submission by issuers of data relating
to diversity and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 5084
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Improving
Corporate Governance Through Diversity
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. SUBMISSION OF DATA RELATING TO DI-
VERSITY BY ISSUERS.
Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(s) SUBMISSION OF DATA RELATING TO DI-
VERSITY.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection—
‘‘(A) the term ‘executive officer’ has the
meaning given the term in section 230.501(f)
of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, as in
effect on the date of enactment of this sub-
section; and
‘‘(B) the term ‘veteran’ has the meaning
given the term in section 101 of title 38,
United States Code.
‘‘(2) SUBMISSION OF DISCLOSURE.—Each
issuer required to file an annual report under
subsection (a) shall disclose in any proxy
statement and any information statement
relating to the election of directors filed
with the Commission the following:
‘‘(A) Data, based on voluntary self-identi-
fication, on the racial, ethnic, and gender
composition of—
‘‘(i) the board of directors of the issuer;
‘‘(ii) nominees for the board of directors of
the issuer; and
‘‘(iii) the executive officers of the issuer.
‘‘(B) The status of any member of the
board of directors of the issuer, any nominee
for the board of directors of the issuer, or
any executive officer of the issuer, based on
voluntary self-identification, as a veteran.
‘‘(C) Whether the board of directors of the
issuer, or any committee of that board of di-
rectors, has, as of the date on which the
issuer makes a disclosure under this para-
graph, adopted any policy, plan, or strategy
to promote racial, ethnic, and gender diver-
sity among—
‘‘(i) the board of directors of the issuer;
‘‘(ii) nominees for the board of directors of
the issuer; or
‘‘(iii) the executive officers of the issuer.
‘‘(3) ALTERNATIVE SUBMISSION.—In any 1-
year period in which an issuer required to
file an annual report under subsection (a)
does not file with the Commission a proxy
statement relating to the election of direc-
tors or an information statement, the issuer
shall disclose the information required under
paragraph (2) in the first annual report of
issuer that the issuer submits to the Com-
mission after the end of that 1-year period.
‘‘(4) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 18
months after the date of the enactment of
this subsection, and annually thereafter, the
Commission shall submit to the Committee
on Financial Services of the House of Rep-
resentatives and to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Sen-
ate and publish on the website of the Com-
mission a report that analyzes the informa-
tion disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (1), (2),
and (3) and identifies any trends in such in-
formation.
‘‘(5) BEST PRACTICES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Of-
fice of Minority and Women Inclusion of the
Commission shall, not later than the end of
the 3-year period beginning on the date of
the enactment of this subsection and every
three years thereafter, publish best practices
for compliance with this subsection.
‘‘(B) COMMENTS.—The Director of the Office
of Minority and Women Inclusion of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.021 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8928 November 18, 2019
Commission may, pursuant to subchapter II
of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code,
solicit public comments related to the best
practices published under subparagraph
(A).’’.
SEC. 3. DIVERSITY ADVISORY GROUP.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Securities and
Exchange Commission shall establish a Di-
versity Advisory Group (the ‘‘Advisory
Group’’), which shall be composed of rep-
resentatives from the government, aca-
demia, and the private sector.
(b) STUDY AND RECOMMENDATIONS.—The
Advisory Group shall—
(1) carry out a study that identifies strate-
gies that can be used to increase gender, ra-
cial, and ethnic diversity among members of
boards of directors of issuers; and
(2) not later than 9 months after the estab-
lishment of the Advisory Group, submit a re-
port to the Commission, the Committee on
Financial Services of the House of Rep-
resentatives, and the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Sen-
ate that—
(A) describes any findings from the study
conducted pursuant to paragraph (1); and
(B) makes recommendations of strategies
that issuers could use to increase gender, ra-
cial, and ethnic diversity among board mem-
bers.
(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 1 year
following the submission of a report pursu-
ant to subsection (b), and annually there-
after, the Commission shall submit a report
to the Committee on Financial Services of
the House of Representatives and the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs of the Senate that describes the status
of gender, racial, and ethnic diversity among
members of the board of directors of issuers.
(d) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS.—The
Commission shall make all reports of the Ad-
visory Group available to issuers and the
public, including on the website of the Com-
mission.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—For the purposes of this
section:
(1) ISSUER.—The term ‘‘issuer’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 3 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(2) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) and the gentle-
woman from Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 5084, the Improving Corporate
Governance Through Diversity Act of
2019.
I thank the chair of our Sub-
committee on Consumer Protection
and Financial Institutions, the Honor-
able GREGORY MEEKS, and the chair of
the Subcommittee on Investor Protec-
tion, Entrepreneurship, and Capital
Markets, the Honorable CAROLYN
MALONEY, for this incredibly important
piece of legislation.
According to Deloitte’s 2017 board di-
versity survey, 90 percent of companies
surveyed agreed that increased board
diversity will improve their company’s
ability to innovate as well as their
overall business performance.
Given the impact on performance, in-
vestors have an interest in the extent
to which companies include diverse
perspectives and people in their board-
rooms and senior executive ranks.
Despite the acknowledgment by com-
panies that the highest levels of their
organizations should reflect the diver-
sity of their shareholders, consumers,
and America at large, the Alliance for
Board Diversity reported that, among
Fortune 500 companies, 80.7 percent of
new board directors in 2017 were White
men.
To address the lack of transparency
and to shine a light on the lack of rep-
resentation of women and minorities in
corporate boardrooms and in the C-
suite, H.R. 5084 would require public
companies to annually disclose the vol-
untarily self-identified gender, race,
ethnicity, and veteran status of their
board of directors and nominees and
senior executive officers.
This bill would also establish a diver-
sity advisory group at the Securities
and Exchange Commission and require
the agency’s Office of Minority and
Women Inclusion to publish best prac-
tices for compliance with diversity re-
porting requirements.
We must ensure that the leadership
of corporate America reflects the grow-
ing diversity of our Nation. Trans-
parency and disclosure are two actions
that allow progress toward racial and
gender parity at the highest levels of
corporations.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 5084, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this Congress, our com-
mittee has held multiple hearings fo-
cused on strengthening diversity and
inclusion in our financial system and
beyond, including a full committee
hearing examining America’s board-
rooms.
Witness testimony makes clear that
women and minorities are underrep-
resented in leadership positions
throughout the financial services sec-
tor. This bill will help move companies
in the right direction.
We know that women hold just 26
percent of senior management posi-
tions and only 15 percent of executive
positions in the finance industry.
These figures have stayed relatively
flat over the past decade.
Corporate leaders know the value of
having a wide range of perspectives and
experiences in the boardroom and are
being proactive in their efforts to di-
versify leadership in the financial serv-
ices industry. Last year, 91 percent of
board directors reported taking steps
to increase diversity. Just last month,
Citigroup announced the promotion of
Jane Fraser to lead Citigroup’s global
consumer banking, setting her up to be
the first female CEO of a major bank.
The private sector is working
proactively to achieve more diversity,
and this bill will give us even more
data to measure progress, including
with respect to hiring veterans. Com-
panies should also work to help our
servicemen and -women reacclimate
into civilian life. This bill will rein-
force the work that industry is already
doing to help employ our veterans.
Witnesses who testified before the
committee believe that the disclosures
in this bill are a step in the right direc-
tion, in part because a large percentage
of companies already do it annually. In
fact, more than 40 percent of publicly
traded companies already disclose in-
formation related to the gender, race,
and ethnic makeup of their boards.
I thank Congresswoman MALONEY
and Congressman MEEKS for working
on this bill. I am grateful to the rank-
ing member and the chairman of the
Committee on Financial Services. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. MEEKS), the chair of our
Subcommittee on Consumer Protection
and Financial Institutions.
Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, today, I
am especially proud to rise in support
of a bill that has been worked on very
hard.
I want to first thank Chairwoman
WATERS and Ranking Member
MCHENRY; of course, my colleague, the
chair of the Subcommittee on Investor
Protection, Entrepreneurship, and Cap-
ital Markets, CAROLYN MALONEY;
Chairwoman BEATTY; and, of course,
the gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs.
WAGNER) for all of their support in
working to pull this bill together, the
Improving Corporate Governance
Through Diversity Act of 2019.
This legislation is the culmination of
years of methodical work and the con-
tinuation of priorities dating back to
our Wall Street reform work following
the financial crisis. Indeed, as my col-
leagues who were here in Congress in
2009 and 2010 will remember well, many
of us, in the wake of the financial cri-
sis, were vocal about how the lack of
diversity and inclusion across
corporate America and, in particular,
at senior levels and on boards of finan-
cial institutions helped contribute to
the financial crisis.
Corporate America should reflect the
diversity of the markets they seek to
serve. This is the right thing to do and
the smart business decision to make.
H.R. 5084, the Improving Corporate
Governance Through Diversity Act, fo-
cuses on disclosures and transparency.
I firmly believe that transparency is
the first step to accountability.
Specifically, the bill does the fol-
lowing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.007 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8929
November 18, 2019
Public companies will be required to
publish diversity data annually in their
proxy statements, based on voluntary
self-identification, on the racial, eth-
nic, and gender composition of their
board of directors, the nominees for the
board of directors, and executive offi-
cers. Similarly, companies will publish
data on those who voluntarily self-
identified as veterans. Public compa-
nies will also have disclosure require-
ments on the adoption of any board
policy, plan, or strategy to promote di-
versity.
The bill directs the Director of the
Office of Minority and Women Inclu-
sion of the SEC to publish, every 3
years, best practices for compliance
with the disclosure requirements of
this bill, including Federal solicitation
of public comments. The bill also di-
rects the Office of Minority and Women
Inclusion to establish an advisory
council, which includes issuers and in-
vestors, to advise on these best prac-
tices.
This is a simple, effective, and
impactful bill that, through trans-
parency and reporting, informs mar-
kets, investors, and employees about
the status of diversity and inclusion
across corporate America.
This bill has earned support that is
very broad, from civil rights groups,
such as the NAACP and the National
Urban League, as well as from the
Chamber of Commerce, the Council of
Institutional Investors, and LPL Fi-
nancial, the Nation’s largest inde-
pendent broker-dealer.
It is rare for a bill to have such broad
support from civil rights groups, cor-
porate America, and the investment
community, but this broad support is
evidence of the urgency and common-
sense nature of this legislation. This
bill will also gain the support of many
of our Republican colleagues across the
aisle, both in the committee and here
on the floor.
Mr. Speaker, I ask, therefore, that all
Members vote in support of this bill.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
from New York (Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY), the chair of the Sub-
committee on Investor Protection, En-
trepreneurship, and Capital Markets.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman for leading and for yielding me
the time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 5084, and I thank my good
friend and colleague, Congressman
MEEKS, for his tremendous leadership
on this bill. We have been working to-
gether on it for a long time, and I am
proud to be an original cosponsor.
I also thank Chairwoman WATERS for
her longtime leadership on these issues
and for working with me and Mr.
MEEKS on this bill.
The bill is very simple, but the goal
is extremely important: increasing di-
versity in corporate leadership.
One of the key pieces of this, I be-
lieve, is getting more women and mi-
norities in corporate leadership posi-
tions. Leaders set the tone, and they
set the priorities.
I asked the GAO to study this issue
in 2015. They found that women were
badly underrepresented on corporate
boards. They also found that, if the
current trends continue, it would take
more than 40 years for women to reach
parity with men on corporate boards.
Clearly, something needs to change.
Let’s be clear. Increasing diversity in
corporate leadership is not just a social
issue; it is good business, too. Study
after study has shown that companies
with greater gender, racial, and ethnic
diversity on their boards perform bet-
ter financially.
This bill would help investors accom-
plish this by requiring public compa-
nies to report the gender, racial, and
ethnic composition of their boards in
their annual reports.
The bill would also establish a diver-
sity advisory group at the SEC, which
would study strategies to increase gen-
der, racial, and ethnic diversity on cor-
porate boards, because the truth is
that making meaningful progress on
corporate diversity is going to require
a range of different policies in addition
to the improved disclosures in this bill.
b 1730
I want to be sure to thank Ranking
Member MCHENRY and my good friend
and colleague ANN WAGNER for their
strong support. Their leadership on the
other side of the aisle has been instru-
mental in getting bipartisan support
for this very important bill that has
wide support across the community.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I urge
all my colleagues to support H.R. 5084,
the Improving Corporate Governance
Through Diversity Act of 2019.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I,
too, encourage my colleagues to please
support this important piece of legisla-
tion. It will make meaningful change.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, H.R. 5084.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
INVESTOR PROTECTION AND
CAPITAL MARKETS FAIRNESS ACT
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4344) to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to allow the Secu-
rities and Exchange Commission to
seek and Federal courts to grant
disgorgement of unjust enrichment,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4344
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Investor
Protection and Capital Markets Fairness
Act’’.
SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL RELIEF.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 21(d) of the Secu-
rities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u(d))
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(7) ADDITIONAL RELIEF.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In any action or pro-
ceeding brought or instituted by the Com-
mission under any provision of the securities
laws, the Commission may seek, and any
Federal court may grant the following addi-
tional relief:
‘‘(i) Disgorgement in the amount of any
unjust enrichment obtained as a result of the
act or practice with respect to which the
Commission is bringing such an action or
proceeding.
‘‘(ii) Injunctions, including officer and di-
rector bars.
‘‘(B) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Additional
relief sought under this paragraph may not
be construed to be a civil fine, penalty, or
forfeiture subject to chapter 163 of part VI of
title 28, United States Code.
‘‘(C) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—A Federal
court may not issue relief under this para-
graph if the action or proceeding brought or
instituted by the Commission was com-
menced more than 14 years after the alleged
violation.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by this section shall apply with respect
to any actions or proceedings pending or
commenced on or after the date of the enact-
ment of this section.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 10 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Securities Exchange Commission shall
submit to Congress data about each enforce-
ment action brought by the Commission in
the 10 years following the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
(2) CONTENTS.—In submitting data pursu-
ant to paragraph (1), the Commission shall—
(A) with regard to each enforcement ac-
tion—
(i) categorize the type of enforcement ac-
tion;
(ii) categorize the type of issuer involved
in the enforcement action;
(iii) identify the approximate duration of
the misconduct that gave rise to the enforce-
ment action; and
(iv) identify the approximate duration of
the investigation; and
(B) identify the 10 enforcement actions
with the longest durations of misconduct
that gave rise to enforcement actions.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.026 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8930 November 18, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) and the gentle-
woman from Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 4344.
I would like to start by commending
my colleagues, Representatives
MCADAMS and HUIZENGA, for crafting
this bipartisan solution to a problem
that, in just 2 years, has cost investors
approximately $1.1 billion.
In 2017, the Supreme Court, in
Kokesh v. SEC, held that the authority
of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, SEC, to recover for investors
the wrongful gains of securities law
violators, known as disgorgement, is
effectively a penalty. As a result, the
SEC’s authority to obtain
disgorgement is time limited by the
general Federal statute of limitations
for penalties so that the SEC must
bring its case within 5 years of the vio-
lation.
This ruling was a boon to white-col-
lar criminals like Bernie Madoff and
Allen Stanford, who are now able to de-
fraud investors for a decade and keep
their profits.
Even worse, the SEC is currently in
litigation before the Supreme Court
over whether it even has the authority
to obtain disgorgement for investors.
I am pleased that H.R. 4344 would en-
sure that the SEC has the tools it
needs to hold bad actors accountable
and to return funds to harmed inves-
tors by clarifying that the SEC does in-
deed have disgorgement authority, and
its authority reasonably extends to 14
years following the date of violation.
This longer time limit would ensure
that the SEC has enough time to de-
tect and sue the Bernie Madoffs of the
world.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to recog-
nize the gentleman from Utah (Mr.
MCADAMS) and the ranking member of
the Investor Protection, Entrepreneur-
ship, and Capital Markets Sub-
committee, Mr. HUIZENGA, for their
diligent efforts on this bipartisan bill.
This bill is the result of the Supreme
Court’s Kokesh decision, which re-
stricted the SEC’s disgorgement au-
thority to 5 years.
SEC Chairman Jay Clayton almost
never advocates for Congress to legis-
late on a particular issue; however, the
issue before us today is the exception,
as Chairman Clayton has expressed
concern that a 5-year statute of limita-
tions allows bad actors to hold on to
their ill-gotten gains obtained outside
of that 5-year window.
As Chairman Clayton has pointed
out: Many long-running frauds go
longer and, in some cases, well longer
than 5 years; and it is just plain wrong
to allow a fraudster to keep money
made from their fraud simply because
he or she was good at concealing the
wrongful behavior.
Today’s bill is responsive to Chair-
man Clayton’s concerns in a thoughtful
and balanced way. Statutes of limita-
tions are important procedural protec-
tions intended to strike the balance be-
tween ensuring wrongdoers are not re-
warded for bad behavior and protecting
shareholders, who are ultimately re-
sponsible for paying large penalties for
violations they did not commit in the
event of an SEC judgment.
I know there is concern that the 14-
year statute of limitations in the bill is
too long. I share concerns that the SEC
could be slow to bring a case when cer-
tainty and swiftness should be the pri-
ority when pursuing enforcement ac-
tions. However, the reality is this: A
14-year statute of limitations is a rea-
sonable first attempt to strike the ap-
propriate balance in the disgorgement
context.
I say ‘‘first attempt’’ because the bill
also requires the SEC to report to Con-
gress with data on cases where the SEC
has sought disgorgement. These re-
ports will be useful in allowing Con-
gress to evaluate the effectiveness of
the statute of limitations and fine-tune
it, if appropriate.
This bipartisan bill carefully bal-
ances the benefits of statutes of limita-
tions with the downside of fraudsters
potentially holding on to significant
amounts of their gains.
Again, I thank the gentlemen from
Utah and Michigan for their thoughtful
draft bipartisan legislation, which I
support, and I urge all my colleagues
to join me in supporting this common-
sense bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
Utah (Mr. MCADAMS), the sponsor of
the legislation.
Mr. MCADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 4344, the Investor Pro-
tection and Capital Markets Fairness
Act, bipartisan legislation that I intro-
duced with my friend from Michigan,
Congressman HUIZENGA, the ranking
member of the Investor Protection, En-
trepreneurship, and Capital Markets
Subcommittee.
I also want to recognize my friend
Representative CAROLYN MALONEY for
her work on this bill as well.
Utah is frequently discussed as one of
the top States for fraud and Ponzi
schemes. A Deseret News article earlier
this year noted that Utah ranked sixth
in most number of Ponzi schemes from
2008–2018, despite being only 31st in
population.
In that decade alone, Utah investors
lost over $1.5 billion to Ponzi schemes,
or $502 per person, plus an additional
$500 million in other types of fraud: $2
billion, overall, taken from hard-
working Utahns; $2 billion that won’t
be there for retirement, that won’t be
there to pass along to our children and
to our grandchildren.
As a result of a couple of recent court
cases, that problem may become much
worse, leaving Utahns less protected,
and leaving fraudsters empowered.
Mr. Speaker, Charles Kokesh opened
a firm that provided investment advice
to business development companies.
Over the course of roughly 14 years,
Charles Kokesh misappropriated tens
of millions of dollars from these com-
panies, funding a lavish lifestyle for
himself and, in the process, defrauding
the investors out of millions of dollars.
Mr. Kokesh was found guilty of mis-
appropriating these investors’ funds,
and the district court ordered Mr.
Kokesh to pay a civil penalty, as well
as disgorgement, totaling roughly $35
million.
The facts of this case are not in dis-
pute, but what comes next has upset
the delicate balance that keeps our
markets fair and keeps our investors
protected.
In 2017, the Supreme Court ruled that
the SEC’s disgorgement authority, the
ability of the SEC to seek repayment
of a defendant’s ill-gotten gains, that
that authority is subject to a 5-year
statute of limitations. The Supreme
Court further hinted, in an obscure
footnote, that the SEC may not be able
to seek disgorgement of ill-gotten
gains at all.
What did this Supreme Court ruling
mean for Charles Kokesh? In the end,
he was only ordered to pay $5 million
in disgorged profits, keeping roughly
$30 million for himself: $30 million that
he was able to keep that he attained
through nefarious means, $30 million in
profits from illegal activity, but, most
importantly, $30 million that won’t
find its way back to the investor vic-
tims.
He keeps $30 million and he loses $5
million—not a bad decade’s work for a
fraudster.
And what did the Supreme Court de-
cision mean for the SEC? The SEC esti-
mates that, in the 2 years since the
Kokesh decision, they have had to
forgo over $1.1 billion in disgorged
funds. That is over $1 billion of ill-got-
ten gains that bad actors can now keep
that don’t get returned to investors.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield the gentleman from Utah an addi-
tional 1 minute.
Mr. MCADAMS. In addition to the
over $1.1 billion in forgone funds, the
SEC is increasingly spending time and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.029 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8931
November 18, 2019
staff resources fighting new legal chal-
lenges from bad actors claiming that
the SEC shouldn’t be able to seek
disgorgement at all.
SEC Chairman Jay Clayton, nomi-
nated for that position by President
Donald Trump, has lamented the im-
pact of the Kokesh decision on the
SEC’s ability to appropriately protect
harmed investors and the amount of
losses they aren’t able to recover for
these investors. As he told me at a re-
cent hearing: ‘‘You shouldn’t reward
somebody for concealing a fraud for a
long time.’’
In a letter to the House, he also said
that the SEC’s disgorgement authority
is ‘‘particularly important in cir-
cumstances where retail investors have
been the victims of long-running, well-
conceived frauds, including Ponzi
schemes. For these victims, an action
by the SEC seeking disgorgement may
be the only practical means of re-
course.’’
And now to pivot back to that foot-
note in the Kokesh decision, that foot-
note said that the SEC may not have
the authority to seek disgorgement at
all—within or outside that 5-year stat-
ute of limitations. And just this past
month, the Supreme Court granted
cert on a challenge to that very ques-
tion. So, within the next year, the Su-
preme Court will hear arguments and
possibly decide to remove any
disgorgement action from the SEC, ab-
sent further action from Congress.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has again ex-
pired.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield the gentleman from Utah an addi-
tional 30 seconds.
Mr. MCADAMS. That would be cata-
strophic for the ability to protect in-
vestors and to keep our capital mar-
kets fair, which is where this legisla-
tion kicks in and why I think it is so
necessary.
This legislation would reverse the
Kokesh decision, specifically authorize
disgorgement as a remedy that the
SEC can seek, and give the SEC up to
14 years to seek disgorgement of ill-
gotten gains. So, in essence, this legis-
lation seeks to fix the Kokesh decision
and would address the recent case the
Supreme Court agreed to hear about
whether the SEC has disgorgement au-
thority at all.
Chairman Clayton says: ‘‘H.R. 4344
will ensure that sophisticated
fraudsters who carry out some of the
most harmful frauds, including Ponzi
schemes that can defraud investors for
long periods of time before being un-
covered, cannot keep their victims’
money.’’
Further, he says: ‘‘H.R. 4344 is an im-
portant response to real harm suffered
by innocent victims.’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has again ex-
pired.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield the gentleman from Utah an addi-
tional 10 seconds.
Mr. MCADAMS. Our capital markets
are the envy of the world, but they
don’t work to the extent that investors
have faith that bad actors can’t profit
off wrongdoing.
I urge support for H.R. 4344.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Michigan (Mr.
HUIZENGA), the ranking member of the
Investor Protection, Entrepreneurship,
and Capital Markets Subcommittee.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 4344, the Inves-
tor Protection and Capital Markets
Fairness Act.
In June of 2017, as has been discussed,
the Supreme Court ruled unanimously
in the Kokesh v. Securities and Ex-
change Commission that the SEC’s
disgorgement remedy constitutes a
penalty, and, as a result, the Supreme
Court found that the SEC’s
disgorgement authority—in other
words, their ability to go collect those
dollars—was subject to a 5-year statute
of limitations.
That may be how the law is currently
reads. That is why we are here today to
try to change that.
As a result of the Kokesh case, the
Supreme Court decision has signifi-
cantly limited the SEC’s ability to ob-
tain disgorgement in certain long-run-
ning frauds.
b 1745
According to the most recent SEC
enforcement division’s annual report,
it is estimated that due to this Kokesh
ruling, the SEC is forced to forgo more
than $1.1 billion in ill-gotten gains
from wrongdoers at the expense of
Main Street investors.
H.R. 4344 would grant the SEC the
authority to seek and for Federal
courts to grant disgorgement within 14
years. Additionally, the bill would fur-
ther clarify that disgorgement may not
be construed as a civil fine, penalty, or
forfeiture. Lastly, the bill requires the
SEC to submit a report to Congress on
the length of certain fraud actions that
they have encountered, including the
10 longest-running frauds that led to
Commission action.
So ideally, I would like to see a
shorter statute of limitations. There
was discussion about matching it with
some other Federal statutes, but I also
recognize that many securities frauds
are complex and take significant time
to uncover and investigate. For exam-
ple, in this particular case, Charles
Kokesh, over the course of nearly 14
years, quietly committed well con-
cealed and elaborate fraud by mis-
appropriating nearly $35 million. And
to add insult to injury, because of the
Supreme Court decision, Kokesh was
allowed, the fraudster was allowed to
keep nearly $30 million of what he stole
from small-dollar Main Street inves-
tors. I don’t think any of us can look at
that and feel good about that current
situation.
This bipartisan bill attempts to
strike a delicate balance by ensuring
that the SEC has the necessary re-
sources and tools to go after bad actors
and to make sure that these sophisti-
cated fraudsters may not keep any of
the money that they have stolen from
everyday investors like teachers and
military service personnel, the elderly,
and religious-affiliated groups.
SEC Chairman, Jay Clayton stated,
‘‘H.R. 4344 is an important response to
real harms suffered by innocent vic-
tims of the worst types of securities
frauds. These are frauds that under-
mine the public confidence in our mar-
kets that the 4,400 women and men of
the SEC strive to preserve every day.’’
I would like to thank my colleague,
the gentleman from Utah (Mr.
MCADAMS), for closely working with
me on this important issue to help pro-
tect millions of Main Street investors.
H.R. 4344 provides the SEC with the
necessary tools to ensure sophisticated
criminals who defraud everyday inves-
tors for long periods of time that they
are prevented from keeping their vic-
tims’ money.
So I urge all of my colleagues to vote
in favor of this overwhelmingly bipar-
tisan investor protection legislation.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
submit for the RECORD a letter on this
legislation from the Chair of the SEC,
Mr. Clayton.
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION,
Washington, DC, November 17, 2019.
Re H.R. 4344, the Investor Protection and
Capital Markets Fairness Act.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Republican Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADER MCCAR-
THY, I write concerning the importance to
our investors and our markets of the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission’s (SEC or
Commission) authority to seek disgorgement
of unjust enrichment from those who have
violated the federal securities laws. This au-
thority is particularly important in cir-
cumstances where retail investors have been
the victims of long-running, well-concealed
frauds, including Ponzi schemes. For these
victims, an action by the SEC seeking
disgorgement may be the only practical
means of recourse.
The recent Supreme Court decision in
Kokesh v. SEC, 137 S. Ct. 1635 (2017), signifi-
cantly limited the SEC’s authority to seek
disgorgement. In Kokesh, the Supreme Court
found our use of the disgorgement remedy
operated as a penalty, which subjected that
remedy to a five-year statute of limitations
from the date of the misconduct. As a result,
our ability to address well-concealed frauds
has been significantly restricted, including
in situations where our Main Street inves-
tors need us most. More recently, the SEC’s
ability to seek disgorgement in any district
court action has been questioned.
With deference to your judgment regarding
the appropriate length for the statute of lim-
itations and other terms, I respectively re-
quest that you act to ensure that we are able
to seek disgorgement to the extent appro-
priate to protect our investors and our mar-
kets. Prompt congressional action also
would remove the uncertainty regarding our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:58 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.030 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8932 November 18, 2019
general authority to seek disgorgement in
district court.
Fortunately, the U.S. House of Representa-
tive is considering H.R. 4344, the Investor
Protection and Capital Markets Fairness
Act, which would amend the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to explicitly provide the
Commission with authority to seek
disgorgement of unjust enrichment in dis-
trict courts. I greatly appreciate this bipar-
tisan, bicameral work underway to address
this important issue and welcome the oppor-
tunity to continue to work with Congress to
ensure defrauded retail investors can get
their investment dollars back while being
true to the principles embedded in statutes
of limitations.
IMPORTANCE OF DISGORGEMENT AS A REMEDY
The SEC’s longstanding ability to obtain
disgorgement of ill-gotten gains in federal
district court is an important tool for our
enforcement program and has allowed the
agency to return billions of dollars to inno-
cent investors victimized by perpetrators of
fraud. For many—if not most—of these vic-
tims, disgorgement awards in SEC cases are
the only practical way to recoup what was
stolen from them. The Commission is com-
mitted to returning money to harmed inves-
tors promptly and has worked hard to im-
prove the effectiveness of our distribution
program over recent years. Since the begin-
ning of Fiscal Year 2017, the hard work of the
women and men of the SEC has led to the re-
turn of over $3 billion to harmed investors.
IMPACT OF KOKESH ON MAIN STREET INVESTORS
Notwithstanding these successes, the Su-
preme Court’s decision in Kokesh has im-
pacted the SEC’s ability to return funds
fraudulently taken from Main Street inves-
tors. In Kokesh, the Supreme Court found
our use of the disgorgement remedy operated
as a penalty, which subjected the Commis-
sion’s ability to seek disgorgement of ill-got-
ten gains to a five-year statute of limita-
tions.
The Kokesh case itself highlights this prob-
lem in stark terms. Of the $34.9 million that
Charles Kokesh misappropriated, $29.9 mil-
lion fell outside of the 5-year statute of limi-
tations. The SEC was unable to collect that
$29.9 million from him for distribution to his
victims, who largely consisted of small-dol-
lar Main Street investors.
Overall, since Kokesh was decided, at least
$1.1 billion in ill-gotten gains has been un-
available for possible distribution to harmed
investors. Much of this is tied to losses by
investors.
IMPORTANCE OF STATUTES OF LIMITATIONS
The SEC’s authority to seek disgorgement
should not be unbounded. I agree that stat-
utes of limitations serve important functions
in our legal system, and as a general matter,
our remedial authority should be subject to
reasonable limitations periods. However, as I
look across the scope of misconduct we en-
counter, including most notably Ponzi
schemes and affinity frauds, I believe a pe-
riod longer than five years from the date of
the misconduct is appropriate in various cir-
cumstances. This is especially the case in
our private, retail markets where there are
fewer causes of action and safeguards avail-
able compared to the public capital markets.
Further, we often see fraudsters target cer-
tain categories of investors. These inves-
tors—notably teachers, military service per-
sonnel, the elderly, and religious-affiliated
groups—need and deserve legal protection
and the SEC’s attention, particularly in the
case of private, targeted frauds.
H.R. 4344, THE INVESTOR PROTECTION AND
CAPITAL MARKETS FAIRNESS ACT
H.R. 4344 would address two important
issues. First, the bill addresses the result of
the Supreme Court’s ruling in Kokesh that
SEC disgorgement claims are subject to a
five-year statute of limitations. The Court’s
holding has had the anomalous effect of al-
lowing the most ‘‘successful’’ perpetrators of
fraud—those who prevent the discovery of
their schemes for longer than the limitations
period—to keep their ill-gotten gains. H.R.
4344 will ensure that sophisticated fraudsters
who carry out some of the most harmful
frauds, including Ponzi schemes that can de-
fraud investors for long periods of time be-
fore being uncovered, cannot keep their vic-
tims’ money.
Second, some perpetrators of fraud have
tried to keep their ill-gotten gains arguing
that district courts lack the power to order
disgorgement in any Commission action. The
primary objective of disgorgement is to re-
turn circumstances to the pre-fraud status
quo. The Supreme Court recently granted
certiorari to address this question in Liu v.
SEC, No. 18–1501. H.R. 4344 would confirm and
ratify district courts’ authority to do what
they have been doing for decades—order vio-
lators to surrender the money they obtained
by breaking the securities laws so that vic-
tims have a chance to be compensated.
H.R. 4344 is an important response to real
harms suffered by innocent victims of the
worst types of securities frauds. These are
frauds that undermine the public confidence
in our markets that the 4,400 women and
men of the SEC strive to preserve every day.
Thank you for your continuing commit-
ment to America’s investors and our mar-
kets.
Very truly yours,
JAY CLAYTON,
Chairman.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from New York (Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY), who happens to be the
chairperson of the Subcommittee on
Investor Protection, Entrepreneurship,
and Capital Markets.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman for yielding and for his leader-
ship on this issue and so many others.
I want to thank Mr. MCADAMS for all
of his work on this crucial issue. I also
want to thank Ranking Member
HUIZENGA, who has been a leader on
this issue for a long time. And I want
to thank the chairwoman and the
ranking member for getting this bipar-
tisan deal done.
Proper enforcement of the securities
laws helps maintain investor con-
fidence in our markets. Investors need
to know that if a bad actor is caught,
and the SEC proves that the bad actor
committed fraud, then the investors
will get their money back.
Unfortunately, the 2017 Supreme
Court decision in Kokesh versus SEC
significantly damaged the SEC’s abil-
ity to return funds to harmed inves-
tors, by holding that SEC claims for
disgorgement of ill-gotten profits are
subject to a 5-year statute of limita-
tions. This means that for long-run-
ning frauds like Bernie Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme, the SEC would not be able to
claw back all of the bad actor’s profits.
The Kokesh decision has already cost
investors about $900 million in
disgorgement of illegal profits accord-
ing to the SEC.
Mr. MCADAMS’ bill would fix this
issue and would lengthen the statute of
limitations from 5 years to 14 years.
This is only fair. So I strongly urge a
‘‘yes’’ vote on this bill that my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle sup-
port, which will claw back bad actor’s
money and put money back in inves-
tors’ pockets.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I urge
support of this bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
I, too, urge support of this bill, spe-
cifically because it would protect the
SEC’s longstanding authority to re-
cover for investors the unjust enrich-
ment from defendants and set a reason-
able time limit to do so. I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, H.R. 4344, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker,
on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE PRO-
GRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT
OF 2019
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4634) to reauthorize the Ter-
rorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4634
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Terrorism
Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. 7-YEAR EXTENSION OF TERRORISM RISK
INSURANCE PROGRAM.
(a) TERMINATION DATE.—Section 108(a) of
the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (15
U.S.C. 6701 note) is amended by striking
‘‘2020’’ and inserting ‘‘2027’’.
(b) TIMING OF MANDATORY RECOUPMENT.—
Section 103(e)(7)(E)(i) of the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 6701 note) is
amended—
(1) in subclause (I)—
(A) by striking ‘‘2017’’ and inserting ‘‘2022’’;
and
(B) by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2024’’;
(2) in subclause (II)—
(A) by striking ‘‘2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2023’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2024’’;
and
(C) by striking ‘‘2024’’ and inserting ‘‘2029’’;
and
(3) in subclause (III)—
(A) by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2024’’;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.020 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8933
November 18, 2019
(B) by striking ‘‘2024’’ and inserting ‘‘2029’’.
(c) ONGOING REPORTS REGARDING MARKET
CONDITIONS FOR TERRORISM RISK INSUR-
ANCE.—Paragraph (2) of section 104(h) of the
Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (15
U.S.C. 6701 note) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraphs (B)
through (E) as subparagraphs (C) through
(F), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following new subparagraph:
‘‘(B) an evaluation of the availability and
affordability of terrorism risk insurance,
which shall include an analysis of such avail-
ability and affordability specifically for
places of worship;’’.
(d) STUDY AND REPORT ON CYBER TER-
RORISM.—Not later than the expiration of the
180-day period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall conduct a
study and report to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs of the Senate, which
shall—
(1) analyze and address—
(A) overall vulnerabilities and potential
costs of cyber attacks to the United States
public and private infrastructure that could
result in physical or digital damage;
(B) whether State-defined cyber liability
under a property and casualty line of insur-
ance is adequate coverage for an act of cyber
terrorism;
(C) whether such risks can be adequately
priced by the private market; and
(D) whether the current risk-share system
under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of
2002 is appropriate for a cyber terrorism
event; and
(2) set forth recommendations on how the
Congress could amend such Act to meet the
next generation of cyber threats.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go-Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MCHENRY) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased that
we are considering H.R. 4634 to reau-
thorize the Terrorism Risk Insurance
Act, or TRIA, for 7 years. This is a bi-
partisan bill that passed unanimously
out of our committee.
I would like to thank Chairwoman
MALONEY, Chairman CLAY, and Chair-
man CLEAVER for their efforts to bring
this bill to the floor today. I would also
like to thank Ranking Member
MCHENRY for working with me to en-
sure the availability of affordable ter-
rorism risk insurance coverage across
our country for small businesses, non-
profit organizations, hospitals, and
educational institutions to name just a
few of the entities that rely on this
Federal program.
The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act
was enacted in the aftermath of the
tragic September 11 terrorist attacks,
which resulted in the largest insured
losses on record from a nonnatural
event. Insurance and reinsurance com-
panies reeled from the losses, and ter-
rorism risk insurance became unavail-
able or extremely expensive, compli-
cating the recovery efforts due to the
importance of insurance in many busi-
ness transactions.
Congress passed TRIA to ensure that
the terrorism risk insurance coverage
would remain available and affordable,
and since that time, the program has
been effective at doing just that. Treas-
ury data show the program has been
successful with nearly 80 percent of all
TRIA-eligible policies, including ter-
rorism risk coverage, and policyholders
paying an average of only 2.5 percent of
their total premiums for terrorism risk
coverage. Treasury data also dem-
onstrates that TRIA is important
across America and not just in densely
populated urban areas. In fact, the
take-up rate is higher in the Midwest
than it is in the northeast.
This bill is supported by a broad coa-
lition of over 300 organizations, includ-
ing the American Property Casualty
Insurance Association, the Reinsurance
Association of America, the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, and the Amer-
ican Bankers Association.
I understand that the Senate Bank-
ing Committee is considering identical
legislation this week, and I hope that
we can act quickly to get this bill
signed into law. I would urge all my
colleagues to support this important
legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support
of H.R. 4634, the Terrorism Risk Insur-
ance Program Reauthorization Act of
2019.
For the last 17 years, TRIA has pro-
vided an important Federal backstop
for businesses that insure against the
large-scale devastation caused by ter-
rorist attacks. This Federal backstop
provides much needed stability for the
private terrorism risk insurance mar-
ket, ensuring that small and large
businesses alike have access to afford-
able coverage.
Without Federal involvement, the
private market cannot adequately
price for this type of risk, causing in-
surers to exit the market, and leaving
businesses without coverage. That
would be a market failure, and it ne-
cessitates us acting in order to ensure
that that market failure does not per-
sist. That is why we have this impor-
tant program.
That bipartisanship continues today
with Democrats and Republicans alike
agreeing on the need to reauthorize the
TRIA program for an additional 7
years. This long-term extension will
give certainty to insurance markets,
businesses and the broader American
economy. A wide range of businesses
have come to rely on the protections
included in this act.
From real estate to manufacturing to
entertainment, H.R. 4634 will help
these companies insure against acts of
terrorism. In addition, the bill takes
the first step in understanding how the
TRIA program can be modernized to
meet the advances made by our adver-
saries in the 21st century.
When we began our bipartisan con-
versations regarding the TRIA reau-
thorization, I emphasized the need to
study how this program would react in
the aftermath of a wide-scale
cyberattack. We generally know what
the threats are broadly, but how the
threats will evolve over the next 7
years we need to know. What we do
know is that America’s public and pri-
vate infrastructure is currently under
attack every single day. And so we
want to make sure that we are broadly
set for this next generation of attack.
In the aftermath of 9/11, insurance
companies and policymakers quickly
became aware of the hidden risks that
acts of terrorism could pose to their
balance sheets. It was a hidden risk
then. Insurers also realized that they
would be unable to adequately price
this risk, spurring the need for Federal
assistance.
What I am concerned about is this: I
am concerned a large-scale
cyberattack could pose these same hid-
den risks to insurers and to the mar-
ket, since we don’t fully understand
the effects of a large-scale cyberattack
and how that would play out today.
Moreover, the digital capabilities of
our adversaries only continue to grow.
Just look at Russia. In 2015, a Russian
cyberattack shut down Ukraine’s
power grid for as long as 6 hours. If it
is not Russia, it is China, Iran, North
Korea. State sponsors of terror want to
cause as much damage to the United
States as they can. And that is not just
the government’s fear or utilities, it is
every part of our economy.
It is our duty to make sure that this
program is adaptable to respond to any
event that could become a reality.
I appreciate Chairwoman WATERS
agreeing to this additional language in
the bill, as well as her work for a long-
term reauthorization. I commend her
work here to ensure that this is a bi-
partisan product here on the House
floor. And from time to time we may
not agree, but on this important bill
we do see eye to eye. So bipartisanship
is not always dead here in Washington.
I believe this bill, when enacted, will
give our economy certainty and will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.013 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8934 November 18, 2019
show that we can respond to threats
and we can talk across the aisle and
come to rational conclusions.
b 1800
Mr. Speaker, again, I thank Chair-
woman WATERS for engaging in this bi-
partisan, collaborative process to reau-
thorize this important program.
I am also glad to know the Senate
will be marking up a similar version of
the bill this week. That is an encour-
aging sign. I am optimistic it will be-
come law once it goes to the Presi-
dent’s desk in short order.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, to the
Members, I cannot express how pleased
I am at the effort that was put to-
gether by Mr. MCHENRY to make this a
bipartisan bill. I am very appreciative
of that.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from New York (Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY), the chairwoman
for the Subcommittee on Investor Pro-
tection, Entrepreneurship, and Capital
Markets.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for yielding and for her leader-
ship on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 4634, which would reauthorize
the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, or
TRIA, for 7 years.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairwoman
WATERS and Ranking Member
MCHENRY for working together to
reach a compromise on this critically
important bill that can get broad bi-
partisan support. I also thank my col-
leagues, Congressmen CLAY and
CLEAVER, for holding field hearings and
for their tremendous support.
This issue is deeply personal to me
because I represent New York City, and
I remember all too well the terrorist
attack of 9/11. After that terrible at-
tack, the market for terrorism insur-
ance completely shut down. Without
terrorism insurance, all construction
stopped, and thousands of jobs were
lost. We could not insure anything.
In response, Congress came together
in a bipartisan way and passed the Ter-
rorism Risk Insurance Act, which pro-
vides a government backstop for ter-
rorism insurance. The goal of TRIA
was to make terrorism insurance both
available and affordable. That is ex-
actly what has happened because of
this bill, and all of this has come at no
cost, not one cost whatsoever, to our
taxpayers.
This bill would reauthorize TRIA for
7 years without any changes to the un-
derlying program. I am pleased that
there is broad agreement that the pro-
gram doesn’t need any additional
changes.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter with a listing of over 300 major
business leaders from every State in
our country that are supporting this
important legislation.
SEPTEMBER 17, 2019.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITED STATES
CONGRESS: The undersigned organizations,
representing a wide variety of business inter-
ests, urge Congress to work swiftly to pass a
long-term reauthorization of the Terrorism
Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) which is cur-
rently set to expire at the end of 2020.
The tragic terrorist attacks on September
11, 2001, fundamentally changed the land-
scape for insuring against the risk of ter-
rorism in the United States. Struck with an
inability to model frequency, location, and
the potentially devastating scale of modern
terrorism, insurers were forced to pull out of
the marketplace, and in the months fol-
lowing the attacks, the inability of insur-
ance policyholders to secure terrorism risk
insurance contributed to a paralysis in the
economy, especially in the construction,
travel and tourism, and real estate finance
sectors.
Since its initial enactment in 2002, TRIA
has served as a vital public-private risk shar-
ing mechanism, ensuring that private ter-
rorism risk insurance coverage remains
available to commercial businesses, edu-
cational institutions and non-profit organi-
zations at virtually no cost to the taxpayer.
According to a 2019 Marsh study, the edu-
cation, media, financial institutions, real es-
tate, hospitality and gaming, and health
care sectors had the highest ‘take-up’ rates
among the 17 industry segments surveyed—
all above 70%. TRIA fosters certainty in the
marketplace and allows all of these inter-
connected elements of the economy to con-
tinue to move forward.
In 2018, the Treasury Department reported
that ‘‘the Program has made terrorism risk
insurance available and affordable in the
United States, and the market for terrorism
risk insurance has been relatively stable for
the past decade.’’ Absent TRIA, there is not
sufficient insurance and reinsurance capital
available to provide comprehensive ter-
rorism coverage to U.S. insurance buyers.
To this end, the undersigned organizations
urge Congress to promptly enact a ‘‘clean’’
long-term extension of this vital program.
Previous reforms to the program have mini-
mized taxpayer exposure making further re-
forms unnecessary. In fact, the key ‘‘dials’’
are already effectively indexed to premium
growth at both the company and industry
level, and the federal share will continue to
decrease in future years even if Congress
makes no changes to the program beyond a
simple change of the expiration date.
Making changes to the TRIA mechanism
to increase insurer retentions could affect
the ability of many insurers, particularly
smaller and mid-sized companies, to write
risks or markets altogether, which ulti-
mately impacts the ability of policyholders
to secure adequate coverage. Maintaining a
workable federal terrorism insurance mecha-
nism is vital for our nation’s economic secu-
rity, and without adequate coverage, our
ability to mitigate further economic fallout
in the event of an attack would be greatly
impaired. There is no homeland security
without economic security.
The American business community re-
members all too well the twelve-day lapse in
the program in early 2015 and the disruption
that lapse played in a variety of markets. We
urge Congress to help provide much needed
certainty by passing a long-term reauthor-
ization of this important program without
delay.
Sincerely,
A.I.M. Mutual Insurance Companies, ACIG
Insurance Company, Alliance Security,
Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty, Amer-
ican Association of Port Authorities, Amer-
ican Bankers Association, American Council
of Engineering Companies, American Council
on Education, American Family Insurance,
American Gaming Association, American
Property Casualty Insurance Association,
American Public Power Association, Amer-
ican Resort Development Association, Amer-
ican Short Line and Regional Railroad Asso-
ciation, Anderson Area Chamber of Com-
merce, Aon, Apache Junction Chamber of
Commerce and Visitor Center, ARCTRUST.
Argo Group, Arrow Mutual Liability Insur-
ance Company, Associated General Contrac-
tors of America, Associated Wire Rope Fab-
ricators, Association of American Railroads,
Atlantic Charter Insurance Company,
AvalonBay Communites Inc., AXA XL,
Ballard Spahr LLP, Barron Mutual Insur-
ance Company, Barton Mutual Insurance
Company, Beacon Capital Partners, LLC,
Beaver Creek Mutual Insurance Company,
Benton Mutual Insurance Association, Black
Hawk Mutual Insurance Company, Bloom-
field Mutual Insurance Company, Boise
Metro Chamber, Bolingbrook Area Chamber
of Commerce, Boston Properties.
Bradford Victor-Adams Mutual Insurance
Company, Bremer Mutual Insurance Associa-
tion, Broad Reach Retail Partners, LLC,
Brookfield Properties, Broome Co-operative
Insurance Company, Brotherhood Mutual In-
surance Company, Buckeye Valley Chamber
of Commerce, Bucksbaum Properties, Build-
ers Mutual Insurance Company, California
Association of Boutique & Breakfast Inns,
California Hotel & Lodging Association,
Camarillo Chamber of Commerce,
CapSpecialty, CCIM Institute, Celina Mutual
Insurance Company, Central Illinois Mutual
Insurance Company, Century Mutual Insur-
ance Association, Chautauqua Patrons Insur-
ance Company.
Chester County Chamber, Chubb, CM
Group, CNA Financial, Coalition to Insure
Against Terrorism (CIAT), Columbia Insur-
ance Group, Community Associations Insti-
tute, Community Insurance Company, Co-op-
erative Insurance Companies, Corporate Of-
fice Properties Trust, Cousins Properties,
Decatur Chamber of Commerce, CRE Fi-
nance Council, CSX, Cumberland Mutual
Fire Insurance Company, CUNA Mutual
Group, Cushman & Wakefield Inc., Davis
Chamber of Commerce.
Donahue Schriber Realty Group, Draper
Area Chamber of Commerce, Dundee Mutual
Insurance Company, Dunham & Chemung
Mutual Insurance Company, East Tennessee
Mutual Insurance Company, Eastern Iowa
Mutual Insurance Association, EastGroup
Properties, Edison Electric Institute,
Edwardsville/Glen Carbon Chamber of Com-
merce, El Centro Chamber of Commerce, El
Dorado County Chamber of Commerce, Elec-
tric Insurance Company, Erie Insurance,
Essex Property Trust, Inc., Extra Space
Storage, Falls City Mutual Insurance Com-
pany Inc. Farmers Home Fire Insurance
Company of West Virginia, Inc., Farmers
Home Insurance Company, Farmers Insur-
ance Company of Flemington, Farmers Mu-
tual Fire Insurance Company of Marble.
Farmers Mutual Insurance Company,
Farmers Mutual Insurance Company Man-
chester, Farmers Pioneer Mutual Insurance
Company, Farmers Protective Mutual Insur-
ance Company, Farmers Union Mutual Insur-
ance Company (AR), Farmers Union Mutual
Insurance Company (ND), Farmers’ and Me-
chanics’ Mutual Insurance Company, Farm-
land Partners Inc., First Maxfield Mutual In-
surance Association, Food Marketing Insti-
tute, Foodservice Equipment Distributors
Association (FEDA), Forreston Mutual In-
surance Company, Forward Mutual Insur-
ance Company, Frankenmuth Mutual Insur-
ance Company, Frederick Mutual Insurance
Company, Gallagher Real Estate & Hospi-
tality Services, General Reinsurance Cor-
poration, German-American Farm Mutual
Insurance Company, Gilroy Chamber of Com-
merce, Governmental Interinsurance Ex-
change.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.035 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8935
November 18, 2019
Grange Insurance, Great American Insur-
ance Group, Greater Boca Raton Chamber of
Commerce, Greater Coachella Valley Cham-
ber of Commerce, Greater Conejo Valley
Chamber of Commerce, Greater Flagstaff
Chamber of Commerce, Greater New York
Mutual Insurance Company, Greater Phoenix
Chamber of Commerce, Greater Springfield
Chamber of Commerce, Greater Yakima
Chamber of Commerce, Grinnell Mutual Re-
insurance Company, Hamel Mutual Insur-
ance Company, Hamlet Mutual Insurance
Company, Hanover Area Chamber of Com-
merce, Harding & Perkins Farm Mutual In-
surance Company, Harford Mutual Insurance
Company, Hawaii Employers Mutual Insur-
ance Company, Heritage Mutual Insurance
Association, Hilton, Hochheim Prairie Farm
Mutual Insurance Association, Horse Prairie
Mutual Insurance Company, Host Hotels &
Resorts.
Hotel Association of Los Angeles, House-
hold & Commercial Products Association,
Hueneme Chamber of Commerce, Humboldt
Mutual Insurance Association, Hutensky
Capital Partners, International Council of
Shopping Centers (ICSC), IFG Companies, Il-
linois Association of Mutual Insurance Com-
panies, Illinois Chamber of Commerce, IMT
Insurance Company, Independence Realty
Trust, Independent Insurance Agents & Bro-
kers of America, Indiana Chamber of Com-
merce, Innovative Signal Analysis, Inter-
national Franchise Association, Inter-
national Speedway Corporation, Inter-
national Safety Equipment Association, Is-
land Insurance Companies, Jo Daviess Mu-
tual Insurance Company, Kane County Mu-
tual Insurance Company.
Kilroy Realty Corporation, Kite Realty,
Lake Havasu Area Chamber of Commerce,
Lamar Advertising Company, Lansing Re-
gional Chamber of Commerce, LaPrairie Mu-
tual Insurance Company, Laredo Chamber of
Commerce, Las Vegas Metro Chamber of
Commerce, Lexington Chamber of Com-
merce, Liberty Mutual Insurance, Liberty
Property Trust, Lincoln City Chamber of
Commerce, Lititz Mutual Insurance Com-
pany, Livingston Mutual Insurance Com-
pany, Lloyd’s of London, Lodi Chamber of
Commerce, Loews Hotels & Co, Long Beach
Area Chamber of Commerce, Long Beach
Hospitality Alliance, Los Angeles Area
Chamber of Commerce.
Lubbock Chamber of Commerce, LWD Inc.,
Major League Baseball (MLB), Marana
Chamber of Commerce, Marriott Inter-
national, Marshalltown Area Chamber of
Commerce, Medical Properties Trust, Inc.,
Mendota Mutual Insurance Company, Men-
nonite Mutual Insurance Company, Mer-
chants Mutual Insurance Company, Mesa
Chamber of Commerce, MetLife, MFS Mu-
tual Insurance Company, MGM Resorts
International, Mid-State Farmers Mutual In-
surance Company, Millers Mutual Group,
Monmouth Real Estate Investment Corpora-
tion, Mortgage Bankers Association, Mound
Prairie Mutual Insurance Company, Mower
County Farmers Mutual Insurance Company.
MS & AD Insurance Group, Munich Rein-
surance America, Inc., Muscatine Mutual In-
surance Association, Mutual of Indiana In-
surance Company, Mutual of Wausau Group,
NAMA—The National Automatic Merchan-
dising Association, National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts (Nareit), Na-
tional Apartment Association, National As-
sociation for Stock Car Auto Racing
(NASCAR), National Association of College
and University Business Officers (NACUBO),
National Association of Home Builders, Na-
tional Association of Mutual Insurance Com-
panies (NAMIC), National Association of
Professional Employer Organizations, Na-
tional Association of REALTORS®, National
Association of Surety Bond Producers, Na-
tional Association of Wholesaler-Distribu-
tors, National Black Chamber of Commerce,
National Electrical Contractors Association,
National Fire & Casualty Company, National
Fire & Indemnity Exchange.
National Hockey League, National Inves-
tor Relations Institute, National Multi-
family Housing Council, National Res-
taurant Association, National Retail Federa-
tion, National Rural Electric Cooperative
Association, National Waste & Recycling As-
sociation, Nationwide Mutual Fire Insurance
Company, New Prague-Ceska-Louisville Mu-
tual Insurance Company, New Vienna Mu-
tual Insurance Association, Nonprofits In-
surance Alliance, Norfolk & Dedham Mutual
Fire Insurance Company, North Country
Chamber of Commerce, North Orange County
Chamber, North Star Mutual Insurance Com-
pany, Northern Finnish Mutual Insurance
Company, Norwegian Mutual Insurance As-
sociation, Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI),
Oakwood Mutual Insurance Company, Ohio
Mutual Insurance Group.
OneBeacon Insurance Group, LLC,
Orthopaedic Research Society, Oxnard
Chamber of Commerce, Palm Desert Area
Chamber of Commerce, Park Hotels & Re-
sorts, Partnership for New York City, Pasa-
dena Chamber of Commerce, Patriot Insur-
ance Company, Pella Mutual Insurance Com-
pany, Penn Charter Mutual Insurance Com-
pany, Penn National Insurance, Pennsyl-
vania Chamber of Business and Industry,
Pennsylvania Lumbermens Mutual Insur-
ance Company, Peoples Mutual Insurance
Association, Peru Waltham Mutual Insur-
ance, Pharmacists Mutual Insurance Group,
Pioneer State Mutual Insurance Company,
PMA Companies, Poweshiek Mutual Insur-
ance Association, Prescott Valley Chamber
of Commerce.
Prophetstown Farmers Mutual Insurance
Company, Rayonier, Inc., Real Estate Board
of New York, Regional Chamber of Com-
merce—San Gabriel Valley, Reinsurance As-
sociation of America, Reno + Sparks Cham-
ber of Commerce, Restoration Risk Reten-
tion Group, Inc., Riverton Chamber of Com-
merce, Rockford Mutual Insurance Company,
Rolling Meadows Chamber, Rudin Manage-
ment Company, Inc., Safety National Cas-
ualty Corp., Safety Specialty Insurance
Company, San Gabriel Valley Economic
Partnership, Schuylkill Chamber of Com-
merce, Seaview Investors LLC, SeaWorld
Parks & Entertainment, SECURA Insurance
Companies, Selma and Dallas County Cham-
ber of Commerce and Tourism, Information
Seneca, Sigel Mutual Insurance Company.
Sentry Insurance, Shelbyville Mutual In-
surance Company, Shelter Insurance, Shop-
ping Center Interests, LLC, Sierra Vista
Area Chamber of Commerce, Securities In-
dustry and Financial Markets Association
(SIFMA), Society Insurance, A Mutual Com-
pany, South Jordan Chamber of Commerce,
Southeast Mutual Insurance Company,
Southern Company, Southwest California
Legislative Council, Southwest Iowa Mutual
Insurance Association, Spirit Realty Capital,
Spring Vale Mutual Insurance Company,
Starr Companies, Steele Traill County Mu-
tual Insurance Company, Stephenson County
Mutual Insurance Company, Sterling Insur-
ance Company, Stirling Properties, LLC,
STORE Capital.
Surprise Regional Chamber of Commerce,
Svea Mutual Insurance Company, Sverdrup
Mutual Insurance Company, Swiss Re Amer-
icas, Tama County Mutual Insurance Asso-
ciation, Taubman Centers, Tenaska, Texas
Hospital Insurance Exchange, The Building
Owners and Managers Association (BOMA)
International, The Chamber of Medford/
Jackson County, The Council of Insurance
Agents and Brokers, The Durst Organization,
The Gray Insurance Company, The Hanover
Insurance Company, The Hartford, The
Macerich Company, The MEMIC Group, The
Philadelphia Contributionship, The Port Au-
thority of New York, New Jersey, The Real
Estate Roundtable.
The Taubman Company, The Travelers
Companies, Inc., The Victor Chamber of
Commerce, The Walt Disney Company, Tor-
rance Area Chamber of Commerce, Tucson
Metro Chamber, Tulsa Regional Chamber,
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, U.S. Travel As-
sociation, UDR, Inc., UJA-Federation of New
York, United Mutual Insurance Company,
University Risk Management and Insurance
Association, Inc. (URMIA), Upland Mutual
Insurance, Inc. Utica First Insurance Com-
pany.
Utica National Insurance Group, Valley
Mutual Insurance Association, W.R. Berkley
Corporation, Watseka Mutual Insurance
Company, Wayne Mutual Insurance Com-
pany, Weingarten Realty Investor,
Welltower, Inc., Western Iowa Mutual Insur-
ance Association, Western National Mutual
Insurance Company, Westfield, Westfield In-
surance Company, Westminster American In-
surance Company, Wholesale & Specialty In-
surance Association, Wisconsin Association
of Mutual Insurance Companies, Zurich
North America.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, again, I thank
Chairwoman WATERS for her leadership
and Ranking Member MCHENRY for
working with us in good faith to come
up with a bipartisan compromise.
This bill is incredibly important to
our economy. I support it completely.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to support this
bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. MEEKS), the chair of our
Consumer Protection and Financial In-
stitutions Subcommittee.
Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 4634, the Ter-
rorism Risk Insurance Program Reau-
thorization Act of 2019.
Mr. Speaker, let me take my hat off
to Chairwoman WATERS and Ranking
Member MCHENRY for working closely
together to make sure that this is a bi-
partisan bill, bringing us all together
in that regard, as well as the other
chairs of the subcommittees that
worked very hard on this bill.
Terrorism risk remains real and
present. It is a present risk.
This is especially true for my beloved
city of New York, which terrorists seek
to target not only for its large popu-
lation and notable landmarks but also
because they seek to disrupt the New
York capital markets, which are the fi-
nancial nervous system of America and
the world.
In October, I had the privilege to par-
ticipate in a New York Police Depart-
ment counterterrorism unit briefing on
the continuing terrorism threats to
New York City. There have been dozens
of foiled plots and a handful of realized
attacks. We cannot let our guard down.
TRIA deserves, and in the House has
won, broad bipartisan support.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.016 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8936 November 18, 2019
Companies and residents of cities and
States that are at risk of terrorism ur-
gently need Congress to finalize pas-
sage of a clean, long-term reauthoriza-
tion of TRIA to provide the certainty
that they need for long-term planning.
That is exactly what the chair and
ranking member have worked so hard
to accomplish.
As we consider this legislation, it is
critical to keep in mind that terrorism
insurance is a covenant in many busi-
ness and real estate loans and con-
tracts. As such, as we saw after the 9/
11 attacks on New York, any lapse
risks triggering defaults or freezing
commerce and housing markets.
Capital markets and insurance poli-
cies are typically written on long-term
contracts, so new insurance policies
are already being written today that
extend beyond the potential expiration
date of the current TRIA authoriza-
tion.
As we look at the U.S. economy, we
must make sure to not allow any lapse
in TRIA, which could exacerbate a
slowdown by freezing funding in the
real estate market and funding to busi-
ness and markets considered most at
risk, such as in New York.
Mr. Speaker, I close by simply say-
ing, as I started, to the chairwoman,
who relentlessly worked together with
Mr. MCHENRY to make sure that this is
a bill that we could work closely to-
gether on, because this is a bill that
benefits all of us in the United States
of America, that that job is a job well
done, and I thank the chair and rank-
ing member very much for pulling us
together and getting this bill across
the finish line.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
as much time as he may consume to
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ZELDIN).
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the ranking member and my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle for their pas-
sionate advocacy on behalf of this im-
portant issue.
Listening to my colleague, GREGORY
MEEKS, I will remind everyone, as he
heads toward the back of the Chamber,
I represent the greatest congressional
district in New York, the First Con-
gressional District of New York.
We as New Yorkers, but really all of
us in this Chamber as Americans, Re-
publicans and Democrats, have worked
together and need to continue to work
together.
Ranking Member MCHENRY has had a
great open door for Republicans, to
hear our feedback and concerns on this
important issue, to make sure there is
not a lapse.
Mr. Speaker, I am rising in support
of H.R. 4634, the Terrorism Risk Insur-
ance Program Reauthorization Act of
2019, which builds on our continued ef-
forts to keep our promise to the vic-
tims of terrorism through the Never
Forget the Heroes Act, which was
signed into law earlier this year.
The U.S. continues to face one of the
most challenging threat environments,
and terrorists will try to find any way
to instill fear and destroy the Amer-
ican values and way of life that we hold
dear, love, and cherish.
For the terrorists, their efforts in-
clude destabilizing our financial mar-
kets and economy.
We must combat terrorism through
every means possible. The Terrorism
Risk Insurance Act is a critical insur-
ance backstop that provides important
protections for construction jobs,
venues, and regional economies across
America in the event of a catastrophic
terrorist attack.
Failure to reauthorize this program
could cause major market disruption,
which is why I am proud to cosponsor
this important legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this bill to bolster
both our national and economic secu-
rity. I rise not just as a New Yorker
but with my colleagues together as
Americans.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the chair and
the ranking member for bringing this
bill to the floor.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, and to the Members, we
heard Mr. MEEKS a moment ago, and
we heard from Mrs. MALONEY. I can’t
tell everyone how much time and effort
they have put into making sure that
we get TRIA reauthorized.
What is interesting about what hap-
pened in our committee, aside from the
fact that Mr. MCHENRY and I worked
well together, we had the East and the
Midwest working very well together.
We had roundtables by Mr. MEEKS and
Mrs. MALONEY in New York, and then
in Missouri, we had Mr. CLEAVER and
Mr. CLAY working together.
This has been a wonderful oppor-
tunity for all of us to work together to
see to it that we do the right thing as
it relates to responding to the possi-
bility of terrorism and how we handle
that.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Missouri (Mr. CLAY),
the chair of the Subcommittee on
Housing, Community Development and
Insurance.
Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairwoman WATERS and Ranking
Member MCHENRY for getting us to this
day.
The Terrorism Risk Insurance Pro-
gram before us this afternoon is one of
the most important bills in the ongo-
ing fight against terror.
TRIA helps to support the private
market in providing coverage for ter-
rorism risks by providing Federal rein-
surance in the event of catastrophic
losses from terrorism. The lack of pub-
lic data on the scope and nature of ter-
rorism risk makes it very difficult for
private companies to model these
risks, and as a result, a Federal back-
stop is important and necessary.
When businesses in my State of Mis-
souri can purchase terrorism risk in-
surance, it provides confidence, pro-
motes public safety, and undergirds the
overall economy. TRIA also protects
key healthcare and research facilities
in St. Louis that not only work on life-
saving cures but also employ thousands
of our constituents.
Overall, the TRIA program has been
extremely successful in ensuring eco-
nomic stability in the post-9/11 envi-
ronment and has done so at virtually
no cost to the taxpayer due to its cost-
sharing structure.
In 2019, the threat of terrorism has
not abated, and insurers still face chal-
lenges in underwriting risk with such a
high potential loss. Without TRIA,
many policyholders in Missouri and
elsewhere would lose terrorism cov-
erage; commercial lending would be
significantly diminished; and the Fed-
eral Government would likely be called
upon to provide assistance at great
cost to taxpayers in the event of an at-
tack.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote for this critical piece of legisla-
tion.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, this is a very good bill.
This is a constructive conversation we
have had from the Republicans on the
Financial Services Committee and the
Democrats on the Financial Services
Committee.
This is a priority that Chairwoman
WATERS set out in our first conversa-
tion about her agenda for the com-
mittee this Congress and an area where
I offered to be supportive. So I am
grateful that we are, in this policy set,
a year ahead of time. It is a rare cir-
cumstance where Congress has acted so
early on a key reauthorization. It is a
rare thing, especially given the import
of this Terrorism Risk Insurance Act.
We are 1 year ahead of schedule in re-
porting this bill off the House floor,
and I expect a wide bipartisan vote,
thankfully. I am grateful that in the
committee markup process, we had
great bipartisan support.
The New York delegation, having ex-
perienced 9/11, with four key policy-
makers from the city and the New
York metro area, was very active in
the original construct of this bill.
b 1815
Mr. MEEKS, Mrs. MALONEY, and Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ on the Democrat side, and
Mr. KING on the Republican side, the
combination of their expertise and also
their legislative history, that they
were here and helped construct the
original act that we are reauthorizing
now, today, is quite helpful. And their
experience in the immediate reaction
of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on New
York City as well as the Pentagon
across the street from us, or across the
river from us, here, today, and the loss
in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, that im-
mediate reaction was swift by Congress
and bipartisan.
Today, we are carrying on that leg-
acy, and I am grateful for it. I think
the American people are grateful when
we are able to act in that accord. This
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.037 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8937
November 18, 2019
is a very good day of bipartisanship
that has taken months to bring us to
this type of conclusion.
I thank Chairwoman WATERS for her
willingness. When you are in the ma-
jority, you have got more votes than
the minority. That is obvious with
being in the majority. It is not all the
time that you reach across the aisle
when you are in the majority; I under-
stand that. But in this act, Chair-
woman WATERS said it is imperative
that we work together, and we have.
We have got a good result here today.
I think it shows the Financial Services
Committee, when brought together,
can do big and important things. This
is certainly a big and important thing
that will have a lasting impact on the
American economy.
We are hopeful that we will never
have to use this piece of law in re-
sponse to a terrorist attack; but, if we
are, the work that we have done on the
Financial Services Committee, the ex-
pertise that we have had on the com-
mittee, we believe, means that this act
will work in response to some cata-
clysmic event.
We are hopeful, and we plan to ensure
that no further terrorist attacks hap-
pen or befall our country and our peo-
ple like happened on 9/11. However, we
are also in the disaster planning busi-
ness, as well, and it is important and
imperative that Members of Congress
are engaged in that.
So the Financial Services Committee
in this House has come to a good con-
clusion on a good piece of law, and we
have a very good reauthorization. Mr.
Speaker, I encourage a ‘‘yes’’ vote by
all Members, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am so pleased and so
proud that we are on the floor today on
a bipartisan bill, and I certainly expect
the support from both sides of the
aisle.
America stands united against ter-
rorism and the hatred and violence
that it represents, and we are stronger
as a country when we take steps to en-
sure that our country can quickly re-
spond to terrorism. By reauthorizing
TRIA, we are helping to do just that.
Again, I thank Ranking Member
MCHENRY for working with me on this
important bill, as well as all of the
members on the committee who have
shown real leadership on this issue. We
heard from some of them today, par-
ticularly Representative MALONEY,
who has worked for a long time on this
legislation. This was so important to
her.
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CLAY, and Mr.
MEEKS have contributed mightily to
the organizing of this bill, to work on
any difficulties that we may have had,
and I am very pleased about that.
Once again, I must say to Mr.
MCHENRY, we have shown that it is
possible. Despite the fact that we may
not agree on a lot of other things, we
came together on this legislation. We
agreed, we worked together, and we
provided leadership and inspiration to
others, understanding that this was
possible.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
piece of legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4634, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
FOSTERING STABLE HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES ACT OF 2019
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass bill
(H.R. 4300) to provide Federal housing
assistance on behalf of youths who are
aging out of foster care, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4300
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Fostering
Stable Housing Opportunities Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF FAMILY.
Subparagraph (A) of section 3(b)(3) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437a(b)(3)(A)) is amended—
(1) in the first sentence—
(A) by striking ‘‘(v)’’ and inserting ‘‘(vi)’’;
and
(B) by inserting after ‘‘tenant family,’’ the
following: ‘‘(v) a youth described in section
8(x)(2)(B),’’; and
(2) in the second sentence, by inserting ‘‘or
(vi)’’ after ‘‘clause (v)’’.
SEC. 3. HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHERS FOR FOS-
TERING STABLE HOUSING OPPORTU-
NITIES.
(a) ASSISTANCE FOR YOUTH AGING OUT OF
FOSTER CARE.—Section 8(x) of the United
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(x))
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘subject
to paragraph (5),’’ after ‘‘(B)’’;
(2) in paragraph (3)—
(A) by striking ‘‘(3) ALLOCATION.—The’’ and
inserting the following:
‘‘(3) ALLOCATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(B) ASSISTANCE FOR YOUTH AGING OUT OF
FOSTER CARE.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the Secretary shall, subject
only to the availability of funds, allocate
such assistance to any public housing agen-
cies that (i) administer assistance pursuant
to paragraph (2)(B), or seek to administer
such assistance, consistent with procedures
established by the Secretary, (ii) have re-
quested such assistance so that they may
provide timely assistance to eligible youth,
and (iii) have submitted to the Secretary a
statement describing how the agency will
connect assisted youths with local commu-
nity resources and self-sufficiency services,
to the extent they are available, and obtain
referrals from public child welfare agencies
regarding youths in foster care who become
eligible for such assistance.’’;
(3) by redesignating paragraph (5) as para-
graph (6); and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(5) REQUIREMENTS FOR ASSISTANCE FOR
YOUTH AGING OUT OF FOSTER CARE.—Assist-
ance provided under this subsection for an
eligible youth pursuant to paragraph (2)(B)
shall be subject to the following require-
ments:
‘‘(A) REQUIREMENTS TO EXTEND ASSIST-
ANCE.—
‘‘(i) PARTICIPATION IN FAMILY SELF-SUFFI-
CIENCY.—In the case of a public housing
agency that is providing such assistance
under this subsection on behalf of an eligible
youth and that is carrying out a family self-
sufficiency program under section 23, the
agency shall, subject only to the availability
of such assistance, extend the provision of
such assistance for up to 24 months beyond
the period referred to in paragraph (2)(B),
but only during such period that the youth is
in compliance with the terms and conditions
applicable under section 23 and the regula-
tions implementing such section to a person
participating in a family self-sufficiency pro-
gram.
‘‘(ii) EDUCATION, WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT,
OR EMPLOYMENT.—In the case of a public
housing agency that is providing such assist-
ance under this subsection on behalf of an el-
igible youth and that is not carrying out a
family self-sufficiency program under sec-
tion 23, or is carrying out such a program in
which the youth has been unable to enroll,
the agency shall, subject only to the avail-
ability of such assistance, extend the provi-
sion of such assistance for two successive 12-
month periods, after the period referred to in
paragraph (2)(B), but only if for not less than
9 months of the 12-month period preceding
each such extension the youth was—
‘‘(I) engaged in obtaining a recognized
postsecondary credential or a secondary
school diploma or its recognized equivalent;
‘‘(II) enrolled in an institution of higher
education, as such term is defined in section
101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1001(a)) and including the institutions
described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of
section 102(a)(1) of such Act (20 U.S.C.
1002(a)(1)); or
‘‘(III) participating in a career pathway, as
such term is defined in section 3 of the Work-
force Innovation and Opportunity Act (29
U.S.C. 3102).
Notwithstanding any other provision of this
clause, a public housing agency shall con-
sider employment as satisfying the require-
ments under this subparagraph.
‘‘(iii) EXCEPTIONS.—Notwithstanding
clauses (i) and (ii), a public housing agency
that is providing such assistance under this
subsection on behalf of an eligible youth
shall extend the provision of such assistance
for up to 24 months beyond the period re-
ferred to in paragraph (2)(B), and clauses (i)
and (ii) of this subparagraph shall not apply,
if the eligible youth certifies that he or she
is—
‘‘(I) a parent or other household member
responsible for the care of a dependent child
under the age of 6 or for the care of an inca-
pacitated person;
‘‘(II) a person who is regularly and actively
participating in a drug addiction or alcohol
treatment and rehabilitation program; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.039 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8938 November 18, 2019
‘‘(III) a person who is incapable of com-
plying with the requirement under clause (i)
or (ii), as applicable, due to a documented
medical condition.
‘‘(iv) VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.—The
Secretary shall require the public housing
agency to verify compliance with the re-
quirements under this subparagraph by each
eligible youth on whose behalf the agency
provides such assistance under this sub-
section on an annual basis in conjunction
with reviews of income for purposes of deter-
mining income eligibility for such assist-
ance.
‘‘(B) SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.—
‘‘(i) ELIGIBILITY.—Each eligible youth on
whose behalf such assistance under this sub-
section is provided shall be eligible for any
supportive services (as such term is defined
in section 103 of the Workforce Innovation
and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102)) made
available, in connection with any housing as-
sistance program of the agency, by or
through the public housing agency providing
such assistance.
‘‘(ii) INFORMATION.—Upon the initial provi-
sion of such assistance under this subsection
on behalf of any eligible youth, the public
housing agency shall inform such eligible
youth of the existence of any programs or
services referred to in clause (i) and of their
eligibility for such programs and services.
‘‘(C) APPLICABILITY TO MOVING TO WORK
AGENCIES.—Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the requirements of this para-
graph shall apply to assistance under this
subsection pursuant to paragraph (2)(B)
made available by each public housing agen-
cy participating in the Moving to Work Pro-
gram under section 204 of the Departments of
Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban De-
velopment, and Independent Agencies Appro-
priations Act, 1996 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note), ex-
cept that in lieu of compliance with clause
(i) or (ii) of subparagraph (A) of this para-
graph, such an agency may comply with the
requirements under such clauses by com-
plying with such terms, conditions, and re-
quirements as may be established by the
agency for persons on whose behalf such
rental assistance under this subsection is
provided.
‘‘(D) TERMINATION OF VOUCHERS UPON TURN-
OVER.—A public housing agency shall not re-
issue any such assistance made available
from appropriated funds when assistance for
the youth initially assisted is terminated,
unless specifically authorized by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(E) REPORTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall re-
quire each public housing agency that pro-
vides such assistance under this subsection
in any fiscal year to submit a report to the
Secretary for such fiscal year that—
‘‘(I) specifies the number of persons on
whose behalf such assistance under this sub-
section was provided during such fiscal year;
‘‘(II) specifies the number of persons who
applied during such fiscal year for such as-
sistance under this subsection, but were not
provided such assistance, and provides a
brief identification in each instance of the
reason why the public housing agency was
unable to award such assistance; and
‘‘(III) describes how the public housing
agency communicated or collaborated with
public child welfare agencies to collect such
data.
‘‘(ii) INFORMATION COLLECTIONS.—The Sec-
retary shall, to the greatest extent possible,
utilize existing information collections, in-
cluding the voucher management system
(VMS), the Inventory Management System/
PIH Information Center (IMS/PIC), or the
successors of those systems, to collect infor-
mation required under this subparagraph.
‘‘(F) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary shall
consult with the Secretary of Health and
Human Services to provide such information
and guidance to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services as may be necessary to fa-
cilitate such Secretary in informing States
and public child welfare agencies on how to
correctly and efficiently implement and
comply with the requirements of this sub-
section relating to assistance provided pur-
suant to paragraph (2)(B).’’.
(b) COORDINATION BETWEEN PHAS AND PUB-
LIC CHILD WELFARE AGENCIES.—
(1) APPLICABILITY TO FOSTERING STABLE
HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES PROGRAM.—Subpara-
graph (A) of section 8(x)(4) of the United
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437f(x)(4)(A)) is amended by inserting before
the semicolon at the end the following: ‘‘and
establishing a point of contact at public
housing agencies to ensure that public hous-
ing agencies receive appropriate referrals re-
garding eligible recipients’’.
(c) PHA ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.—Sub-
section (q) of section 8 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(q)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new paragraph:
‘‘(5) SUPPLEMENTS FOR ADMINISTERING AS-
SISTANCE FOR YOUTH AGING OUT OF FOSTER
CARE.—The Secretary may provide supple-
mental fees under this subsection to the pub-
lic housing agency for the cost of admin-
istering any assistance for foster youth
under subsection (x)(2)(B), in an amount de-
termined by the Secretary, but only if the
agency waives for such eligible youth receiv-
ing assistance any residency requirement
that it has otherwise established pursuant to
subsection (r)(1)(B)(i).’’.
SEC. 4. EXCEPTIONS TO LIMITATIONS FOR
PROJECT-BASED VOUCHER ASSIST-
ANCE.
(a) PERCENTAGE LIMITATION.—The first sen-
tence of clause (ii) of section 8(o)(13)(B) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)(B)(ii)) is amended by in-
serting before ‘‘or that’’ the following: ‘‘that
house eligible youths receiving assistance
pursuant to subsection (x)(2)(B),’’.
(b) INCOME-MIXING REQUIREMENT.—Sub-
clause (I) of section 8(o)(13)(D)(ii) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437f(o)(13)(D)(ii)(I)) is amended by inserting
after ‘‘elderly families’’ the following: ‘‘, to
eligible youths receiving assistance pursuant
to subsection (x)(2)(B),’’.
SEC. 5. APPLICABILITY.
The amendments made by this Act shall
not apply to housing choice voucher assist-
ance made available pursuant to section 8(x)
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437f(x)) that is in use on behalf of an
assisted family as of the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) and the gentle-
woman from Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 4300, the Fostering Stable Hous-
ing Opportunities Act of 2019. This bill
will help to ensure that our young
adults aging out of foster care and at
risk of homelessness have the housing
assistance they need. In addition, this
bill includes incentives for these young
adults to participate in activities or
programs to help them achieve self-suf-
ficiency.
The young people who have aged out
of the foster care system face many
challenges as they abruptly face adult-
hood without many of the supports
needed to help them make the transi-
tion. These young people have limited
resources with which to secure safe and
stable housing, which leaves them at
heightened risk of experiencing home-
lessness.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4300, the Fostering Stable Housing Op-
portunities Act.
Each year, Mr. Speaker, roughly
20,000 youth age out of foster care.
Young adults without families who exit
the foster care system are incredibly
vulnerable to homelessness. A number
of studies show that between 11 and 36
percent of these young people who age
out of our foster care system experi-
ence homelessness.
These foster youth need and deserve
our support. A stable roof over their
heads can allow these young men and
women to pursue an education or a ca-
reer. A home can be a bedrock from
which they can build their lives and
protect them from crimes like human
trafficking.
It will also help these young adults
by allowing up to 2 years of extensions
if they enroll in HUD’s Family Self-
Sufficiency program, pursue education
or workforce development, or gain em-
ployment.
It is our duty, Mr. Speaker, to pro-
tect these young men and women from
being jettisoned from our foster care
system and onto the streets. This bill
doesn’t just give them a roof over their
heads; it gives them the ability to
build a future.
I applaud the sponsors of H.R. 4300,
Ms. DEAN and Mr. STIVERS, and I would
like to acknowledge, in particular, the
hard work that my good friend, the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. TURNER) has
put into this bill over the last few
years. He has been a true champion of
this issue, and should be commended
for his dedication.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
strongly support this bill, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
yield such time as she may consume to
the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania
(Ms. DEAN), the sponsor of the bill.
Ms. DEAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise in sup-
port of H.R. 4300, the Fostering Stable
Housing Opportunities Act, and I
thank the manager, Mr. GREEN, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.017 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8939
November 18, 2019
Representative WAGNER for their
wholehearted support.
The Fostering Stable Housing Oppor-
tunities Act is a bipartisan bill that
addresses the needs of foster youth fac-
ing homelessness as they age out of the
foster care system.
Every year, approximately 20,000
young people across this country age
out of foster care. Studies show that
between one-fifth to one-third of these
young adults will become homeless in
transition years.
That sudden and permanent transi-
tion from foster care to adulthood—in-
cluding the loss of financial, edu-
cational, and social supports that the
child welfare system provides—places
these vulnerable youth at risk of home-
lessness and housing instability.
In my home State of Pennsylvania,
for example, 32 percent of foster youth
surveyed in fiscal year 2018 reported
that they had been homeless by the age
of 21. That is nearly a third of the
young people coming out of the foster
care system.
The Fostering Stable Housing Oppor-
tunities Act will address this problem
by reforming and extending the current
voucher system. It provides vouchers
from HUD on demand to foster youth
who are at risk of becoming homeless,
rather than forcing them to spend
years on waiting lists.
Furthermore, this bill incentivizes
young people to participate in self-suf-
ficiency activities by extending their
assistance for up to an additional 2
years. Qualifying activities include
pursuing an education, workforce de-
velopment, or employment.
Finally, the Fostering Stable Hous-
ing Opportunities Act builds upon the
current Family Unification Program
under the foster youth portion to bet-
ter align the child welfare and afford-
able housing systems and to coordinate
and improve the lives of foster youth.
This bill is endorsed by more than 40
organizations, including the National
Alliance to End Homelessness, Na-
tional Low Income Housing Coalition,
the Center on Budget and Policy Prior-
ities, and the Child Welfare League of
America.
I thank my colleague on the Finan-
cial Services Committee in particular,
Congressman STIVERS, for his leader-
ship on this bipartisan bill; as well as
Congresswoman BASS, founder and co-
chair of the Congressional Caucus on
Foster Youth; and Congressman TUR-
NER, who has been a leader on this
issue for many years.
Finally, I thank the Financial Serv-
ices Committee chair, Chairwoman
WATERS, for her support on this legisla-
tion.
The Fostering Stable Housing Oppor-
tunities Act passed the Financial Serv-
ices Committee unanimously, and I
urge Members of the full House to pass
it as well.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. TURNER).
Mr. TURNER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague from Pennsylvania (Ms.
DEAN) for pushing this legislation with
me, as well as Congresswoman BASS of
California. Congressman STIVERS of
Ohio has been an incredible champion.
I thank Congressman WAGNER for her
work on this bill.
And I want to thank, particularly,
Ranking Member MCHENRY. I am not a
member of this committee, and I thank
Chairwoman WATERS and, of course,
Ranking Member MCHENRY for taking
this up and allowing me to advocate for
this bill.
This is a bill of the heart. Everyone
who has worked on this bill knows that
we are remedying a wrong that
shouldn’t exist.
Mr. Speaker, several years ago, a
group of Ohio foster youth, foster care
alumni, and advocates came to me and
explained to me the struggles that they
endure as a result of the government’s
failure as foster parents. We fail to pro-
vide housing for these young people
when they age out of foster care.
Currently, when youth age out of the
foster care system, they are often
placed at the back of the line to re-
ceive housing assistance, despite some
targeted interventions available. Es-
sentially, many of these youth, when
they age out of foster care, age into
federally created homelessness.
Now, part of this problem is that fos-
ter care is under HHS and adult hous-
ing is under HUD. Even though we
know these kids are coming because we
are providing them funding and we are
providing them care under the foster
care system under HHS, HUD acts like
they have shown up for the very first
day when they become adults and age
out of the system.
It is our responsibility to fix this. As
Congresswoman WAGNER was saying,
studies show that 37 percent of foster
care alumni have experienced home-
lessness. What a failure of a program.
The program under HHS is grad-
uating 37 percent of its kids into home-
lessness; 20 percent struggle with
chronic homelessness. This is after we
have made a significant investment in
these children’s lives. It is the time
that they start to go forward into
adulthood that they face homelessness.
The government can and should rem-
edy this. This bill will help with that
and will give these kids, as they go
into adulthood, an opportunity to jump
in the front of the line—because we
know they are coming; we have known
they are coming for years—and give
them the assistance for federally cre-
ated housing so they can look toward
self-sufficiency and become inde-
pendent members of society.
b 1830
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank
all of the Dayton, Ohio, area foster
kids and the alumni who helped work
on this. Congratulations to each and
every one of them. We did it, Mr.
Speaker. I encourage everyone to vote
for this.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
simply want to thank Mrs. WAGNER for
working with me and the other mem-
bers of the committee. I would like to
also thank Ms. DEAN and Mr. STIVERS
for introducing this important piece of
legislation that is aimed at protecting
some of our most vulnerable young
people who too often fall into home-
lessness after they age out of foster
care.
Mr. Speaker, I support this legisla-
tion and urge my colleagues to do so,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, H.R. 4300, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
SENATE AMENDMENT TO THE
BILL (H.R. 3055) COMMERCE, JUS-
TICE, SCIENCE, AGRICULTURE,
RURAL DEVELOPMENT, FOOD
AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, IN-
TERIOR, ENVIRONMENT, MILI-
TARY CONSTRUCTION, VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS, TRANSPOR-
TATION, AND HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2020
Mr. HASTINGS, from the Committee
on Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–297) on the resolution (H.
Res. 708) providing for consideration of
the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R.
3055) making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes, which was re-
ferred to the House Calendar and or-
dered to be printed.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on motions to
suspend the rules previously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
H.R. 3702,
H.R. 4634; and
H.R. 4344.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
REFORMING DISASTER RECOVERY
ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.041 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8940 November 18, 2019
bill (H.R. 3702) to authorize the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment to provide disaster assistance to
States, Puerto Rico, units of general
local government, and Indian tribes
under a community development block
grant disaster recovery program, and
for other purposes, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 290, nays
118, not voting 22, as follows:
[Roll No. 625]
YEAS—290
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Bustos
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meuser
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NE)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NAYS—118
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Balderson
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gibbs
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Holding
Hudson
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
LaHood
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
Meadows
Miller
Mitchell
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Smith (MO)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thornberry
Walker
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yoho
Young
NOT VOTING—22
Bilirakis
Brooks (IN)
Butterfield
Carter (TX)
Cox (CA)
Ferguson
Gabbard
Gohmert
Gonzalez (TX)
Grijalva
Horsford
Kuster (NH)
Marchant
McEachin
Meng
Moulton
Pressley
Rooney (FL)
Ruppersberger
Serrano
Timmons
Wright
b 1857
Messrs. OLSON, FORTENBERRY,
EMMER, LONG, SMUCKER, CURTIS,
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, YOUNG,
DAVIDSON of Ohio, and HUNTER
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. BACON, RICE of South Caro-
lina, and Mrs. RODGERS of Wash-
ington changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’
to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Speaker, had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 625.
f
TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE PRO-
GRAM REAUTHORIZATION ACT
OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
TONKO). Pursuant to clause 8 of rule
XX, the unfinished business is the vote
on the motion to suspend the rules and
pass the bill (H.R. 4634) to reauthorize
the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of
2002, and for other purposes, as amend-
ed, on which the yeas and nays were or-
dered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 385, nays 22,
not voting 23, as follows:
[Roll No. 626]
YEAS—385
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.044 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8941
November 18, 2019
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—22
Amash
Babin
Biggs
Brady
Buck
Burchett
Foxx (NC)
Gaetz
Gosar
Harris
Hice (GA)
Jordan
Massie
Mast
McClintock
Meadows
Murphy (NC)
Palmer
Roy
Sensenbrenner
Steube
Weber (TX)
NOT VOTING—23
Bilirakis
Brooks (IN)
Butterfield
Carter (TX)
Cox (CA)
Ferguson
Gabbard
Gohmert
Gonzalez (TX)
Grijalva
Horsford
Marchant
McBath
McEachin
Meng
Morelle
Moulton
Pressley
Rooney (FL)
Ruppersberger
Serrano
Timmons
Wright
b 1905
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
INVESTOR PROTECTION AND
CAPITAL MARKETS FAIRNESS ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4344) to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to allow the Secu-
rities and Exchange Commission to
seek and Federal courts to grant
disgorgement of unjust enrichment,
and for other purposes, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 314, nays 95,
not voting 21, as follows:
[Roll No. 627]
YEAS—314
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Banks
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Bustos
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green, Al (TX)
Guthrie
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McNerney
Meeks
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Womack
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—95
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Balderson
Barr
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Conaway
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Fleischmann
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gosar
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Holding
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Lamborn
Lesko
Loudermilk
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McClintock
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Norman
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smucker
Steube
Stivers
Taylor
Thornberry
Tipton
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Woodall
Yoho
NOT VOTING—21
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Brooks (IN)
Butterfield
Carter (TX)
Ferguson
Gabbard
Gohmert
Gonzalez (TX)
Grijalva
Horsford
Marchant
McEachin
Meng
Moulton
Pressley
Rooney (FL)
Ruppersberger
Serrano
Timmons
Wright
b 1913
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.022 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8942 November 18, 2019
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO
BOARD OF VISITORS TO THE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
ACADEMY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
9455(a), and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, of the following Mem-
ber on the part of the House to the
Board of Visitors to the United States
Air Force Academy:
Mr. LAMBORN, Colorado
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF
SERGEANT STEVEN RHODES
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to praise Sergeant Steven
Rhodes for his dedication to public
safety in my district.
Sergeant Rhodes is a 20-year veteran
of the Bayonne Police Department in
Bayonne, New Jersey. He has worked in
the Patrol Division, Community Ori-
ented Policing Unit, Detective Bureau,
and the Juvenile Aid Bureau. He has
earned a Departmental Valor Award,
six commendations, four Excellent Po-
lice Service Awards, and two Meri-
torious Police Service Awards.
Yesterday, he was presented the 2019
Freedom Fund Award by the Bayonne
branch of the NAACP. He has earned
this award as much as all of the others,
and I am proud to call him a resident
of the 10th Congressional District.
He has continued to look out for his
community through law enforcement,
but with a community edge, and that is
what we need in our communities.
f
BAT CONSERVATION
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, recently, I had the pleas-
ure of joining the Pennsylvania Game
Commission for a briefing to highlight
the importance of bats and voluntary
conservation. I was also joined there by
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
The U.S. bat population plays an im-
portant role in Pennsylvania’s eco-
system and agricultural industry. They
also help producers with insect control,
pollination, and seed dispersal.
This is a good thing for our environ-
ment, too, and for the health of our ag-
ricultural yields, because when the bat
populations can eat thousands of in-
sects a night, that means fewer pes-
ticides.
These creatures are truly amazing.
Several years ago, it was that vampire
bat saliva could be used to create anti-
stroke medication. With more than
1,300 different species, the potential for
lifesaving medication, innovative agri-
cultural practices, and any number of
new discoveries is limitless.
That is why I introduced H. Res. 663,
to establish October 24 to October 31 as
Bat Week. Whether we realize it or not,
bats play a role in our everyday lives,
and they deserve our commitment to
conservation.
f
JUSTICE MUST BE RENDERED FOR
ALL
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
want to congratulate a collective group
of Republicans and Democrats, people
from the faith community who joined
together to acknowledge that Rodney
Reed, an inmate on death row for more
than 20 years, with new DNA evidence
and witnesses who indicated that an-
other individual, the fiance of the vic-
tim, may have committed this crime,
was given the opportunity for an in-
definite suspension by the Texas Court
of Criminal Appeals.
It is important, as Texas probably re-
mains one of the States with the larg-
est number of individuals on death row,
that we do not take the victim’s inter-
ests lightly or that of the perpetrator
and convicted person.
Mr. Reed did not and was not con-
victed by a jury of his peers. The jury
was not diverse in Giddings, Texas.
There was subsequent evidence, as I in-
dicated, DNA evidence, as I have indi-
cated.
It is important as much for the jus-
tice for the victim to know, or the vic-
tim’s family to know, the actual perpe-
trator who did this dastardly act and
took a life as it is for the man sitting
on death row.
So religious community leaders,
international leaders, my colleague in
the United States Senate Senator
CRUZ, I, and others around the State
want to recognize the work of the
Texas Court of Criminal Appeals, after
the fact, and, of course, the Board of
Pardons.
Justice must be rendered for all, and
that is what is happening in Texas
today.
f
TOGETHER, WE CAN SAVE LIVES
(Mr. MAST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MAST. Mr. Speaker, last month,
more than 30,000 scientists, including
many from Florida, congregated for
Neuroscience 2019, an annual event
dedicated to understanding the brain
and the nervous system.
Now, one of the many brain diseases
that was discussed at this annual meet-
ing was glioblastoma, which is, unfor-
tunately, prevalent in the part of Flor-
ida that I represent. As a matter of
fact, just last week, my friend, Mark
Cunningham, who was diagnosed with
this aggressive cancer 3 years ago,
passed after many years of fighting for
his life.
I ask that you join me in praying for
the Cunningham family and all those
still fighting this horrible disease. I
also ask that you thank God for the in-
spiring person that Mark proved to be
every day of his life.
I would just say that I am thankful
for the neuroscientists working tire-
lessly to learn more about this disease.
Last year, our community received
more than $48 million in funding from
the National Institutes of Health to
conduct research aimed at under-
standing the nervous system.
I have seen firsthand the important
work being done at research institutes
in my community, including the Max
Planck Florida Institute for Neuro-
science, and I am very confident that
we can save lives.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF BERNARD
TYSON
(Ms. LEE of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
rise this evening with a heavy heart to
honor the extraordinary life of Bernard
Tyson, who passed away on November
10 and whom, as we speak, the Bay area
is paying tribute to in a memorial in
San Francisco.
Bernard Tyson was one of our Na-
tion’s most influential African Amer-
ican CEOs and healthcare leaders, serv-
ing as the first African American CEO
of Kaiser, and transforming Kaiser’s
healthcare system into a model for
healthcare providers everywhere.
Bernard’s tireless dedication to im-
proving the quality of healthcare was
exemplified in his push to create a
more accessible and affordable
healthcare system for all.
Throughout his life, Bernard sparked
systematic change and innovation, ad-
dressing inequities that disproportion-
ately affect communities of color.
He was a role model and mentor to so
many African American young men, in-
cluding my son, Tony, who recently
had lunch with him to discuss his in-
sights into the future of healthcare.
I offer my deepest condolences to his
wife, Denise, his entire family, to our
entire community, and the country.
We lost a warrior and a great human-
itarian; but, as we mourn his passing,
let us celebrate his life and make sure
that his legacy lives.
May Bernard rest in peace, and may
he rest in power.
f
END GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS
(Mr. BALDERSON asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. BALDERSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to express my disappointment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.049 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8943
November 18, 2019
that, once again, Congress is kicking
the can down the road and putting off
properly funding the government by
another month.
I urge my colleagues to recognize
government funding affects the lives of
millions of Americans: USDA officials
inspect our Thanksgiving turkeys;
postal workers deliver our holiday
cards and packages; TSA agents and
air traffic controllers keep us safe to
fly home for the holidays. Not to men-
tion, millions of Federal employees
rely on a steady income, especially
during the expensive holiday season.
This is unfair to Americans. Clearly,
all Americans are affected by Congress’
inability to pass a budget. That is why
I introduced the End Government
Shutdowns Act, which safeguards
against the damaging consequences of
shutdowns. It lifts the shutdown bur-
den from the shoulders of Americans
and incentivizes lawmakers to reach
across the aisle and do our jobs.
Americans want to see us come to-
gether and find bipartisan solutions to
our Nation’s most challenging funding
problems. My bill does just that.
f
NATIONAL ADOPTION MONTH
(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, as a
co-chair of the Congressional Caucus
on Foster Youth and a member of the
Adoption Caucus, I rise to recognize
National Adoption Month.
Mr. Speaker, all children deserve the
love and security of a family, but for
the 125,000 youth waiting to be adopted
from foster care, that most basic of
human needs can seem so out of reach.
Through the Foster Youth Caucus, we
try to shine a spotlight on these youth,
as well as the adoptive families that
open their hearts and homes to chil-
dren in need.
Ted and Teena Sullivan are two such
adoptive parents from my home State
of Rhode Island. Ted is also the senior
director of Mission Advancement for
Bethany Christian Services, and I was
honored to recognize him as a 2019 Con-
gressional Coalition on Adoption Insti-
tute Angel in Adoption last week.
Mr. Speaker, adoptive parents like
Ted and Teena give children in need
the most important gift: a forever fam-
ily. Let them be our example this Na-
tional Adoption Month as we recommit
to serving our most vulnerable youth.
f
b 1930
CONTINUING RESOLUTIONS ARE
NOT THE WAY CONGRESS
SHOULD OPERATE
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow
the House will consider another tem-
porary funding measure, this time
kicking the can down the road until
December 20. We are nearly 2 months
into the fiscal year, and not a single
full-year appropriations bill has been
completed. Continuing resolutions are
not the way that we should operate.
Priorities shift from year to year,
and the longer a CR lasts, the more it
hurts our military, our ports, and our
infrastructure investment. I have seen
no evidence that we are any closer to
passing any full-year bills than at the
end of September when we passed the
last CR.
You will hear my colleagues across
the aisle blame this on Senate Repub-
licans, however, the House majority
appropriations bills were filled with
poison pills that they continue to in-
sist upon, such as preventing the use of
funds for the border wall. And now the
entire past month has been devoted to
their sham impeachment efforts.
I urge my colleagues, put the par-
tisan investigations to the side so that
we can come to a bipartisan agreement
to fund the government in a respon-
sible way.
f
HONORING BERNARD TYSON
(Mrs. BEATTY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the extraordinary life
and legacy of Bernard Tyson, who
passed away on November 10 and is
being celebrated at this hour.
I had the privilege of serving along-
side Bernard on the board of the Amer-
ican Heart Association, and I can tell
you he was a visionary and a champion
for high quality healthcare for all
Americans and providing some 12 mil-
lion American men, women, and chil-
dren healthcare in the process. That is
what he fought for every day as presi-
dent and CEO of Kaiser Permanente, in
which he served as the first African
American in that role.
He was a trailblazer in the industry
with a push-the-envelope mindset,
quick wit, and he was a people person.
He never forgot where he came from.
He mentored many and was a promi-
nent African American that we looked
up to.
My condolences, thoughts, and pray-
ers are with his wife and dear friend,
Denise, his son, and the entire family.
I am proud to call Bernard my friend
and will miss him dearly and his excep-
tional contributions to our Nation’s
healthcare industry. Rest in peace.
Rest in power.
f
HONORING LAURA CHAFFIN
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, the Holy
Bible, the book of Mark, chapter 12,
verse 30 says, ‘‘Love your God with all
your heart and with all your soul and
with all your mind and with all of your
strength.’’ Those words sum up Laura
Chaffin, her life.
An accident last year in Uganda took
her voice and paralyzed her for a cou-
ple of trying weeks. She was there with
her husband Scott trying to put their
family together. The Chaffin family is
beside me right now. There is Laura,
there is Scott, and their three sons,
Elijah, David, and Jonah.
If you think Laura felt pity when she
was hurt, you are dead wrong. With a
team of experts at TIRR at Memorial
Hermann Hospital and with the love of
family and the love of Jesus Christ, she
started talking and walking and teach-
ing at Alvin ISD and cooking for her
family. She became, again, a mom and
a wife.
Mr. Speaker, in the name of Laura,
Scott, Elijah, David, Jonah, and Jesus
Christ, I yield back.
f
CONGRATULATING MATTHEW
CATANOSO
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, today
I would like to send my congratula-
tions to an extraordinary south Jersey
native, who represented our Nation at
the international Henley’s Royal Re-
gatta this past summer.
Matthew Catanoso is a rising sopho-
more on the crew team at the United
States Naval Academy, which was cho-
sen to participate in the King’s Cup
competition in July. This race com-
memorated the historic Henley’s Royal
Regatta in 1919 that was originally
held to celebrate the end of World War
I.
For the centennial anniversary of the
tournament, eight countries were in-
vited to send a team to compete for the
cup over the summer. Matthew, the
former coxswain of Ocean City High
School, participated with the rest of
the Naval Academy and he took home
the King’s Cup after narrowly beating
Germany in the final race.
I congratulate Matthew on his big
win at the Henley Royal Regatta, and I
thank him for representing our Nation
and south Jersey at this historic event
and wish him the very best as he con-
tinues his education at the Naval Acad-
emy. We are proud of him and we are
proud of what he has done. Congratula-
tions.
f
A SOLUTION TO THE
AGRICULTURE INDUSTRY’S NEEDS
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, last
week after many months of hard work
by staff and Members here in a bipar-
tisan fashion, amazingly in this atmos-
phere here, we introduced the Farm
Workforce Modernization Act legisla-
tion. This will really clean up the proc-
ess for ag labor in this country, some-
thing desperately needed. It will be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.051 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8944 November 18, 2019
better for the workers, better for the
farmers, and much better for the rule
of law.
With the problems we have on our
border, the problems with immigration
as it is these days, at least the ag
worker section will be able to be much
better monitored and much better reg-
ulated, and indeed, much better off for
the workers themselves not having to
live in the shadows.
This legislation modernizes the H–2A
program. It stabilizes wages, institutes
a merit-based system for ag workers to
eventually earn legal status after years
of proven work and consistent employ-
ment in the U.S. ag industry.
So when you look at the whole pack-
age here, where we stand right now
with the disarray in nonofficial status
that we have, this is going to be a vast
improvement, and I urge people to get
behind that.
f
HONORING RICK PERRY
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
ROSE of New York). Under the Speak-
er’s announced policy of January 3,
2019, the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
ROY) is recognized for 60 minutes as the
designee of the minority leader.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I am here to-
night with a number of my colleagues
from Texas because Governor Rick
Perry, as we Texans refer to him, will
be stepping down in a few weeks as the
Secretary of Energy of the United
States of America.
I have had the honor of serving on his
staff, working with him on a number of
projects, including a book, and working
on his campaigns. He has been a State
Representative in Texas, the Agri-
culture Commissioner in Texas, Lieu-
tenant Governor, Governor of Texas,
but I always think of Rick Perry first
and foremost as a proud Texan, an
Aggie, an Eagle Scout, a husband, an
Air Force veteran, a father, and a
grandfather. But for me personally, I
always remember the Governor as a
friend, a loyal friend who would help
those who needed it, whether it was a
veteran, suffering after battle, who
needed a home, which the Governor
and his lovely bride, Anita, would wel-
come them into their home, or whether
it was praying for me when I had can-
cer as a staffer for him. Governor Perry
literally called me from a Presidential
debate to check on me while I was
going through chemotherapy. And he
stood with me and my family through
it all. He is above all a good and decent
man.
There are few people in this world
who cause you to want to charge the
hill behind him, and you know it will
be for fighting a just cause, but Gov-
ernor Perry is one of those people. And
he learned this from his family and his
community.
Governor Perry grew up in Paint
Creek, Texas, with no indoor plumbing
for the first 5 years of his life in 1950s
west Texas. His dad, Ray, was a World
War II veteran, who along with Perry’s
wonderful mom, Amelia, were ranchers
in Texas. And his wife Anita, whom he
met in elementary school, was his high
school sweetheart and has been the
love of his life and by his side ever
since. He is a proud dad to Griffin and
Sydney and granddad to their wonder-
ful children.
Governor Perry is fairly famous for
being an Aggie. He received his bach-
elor of science degree in animal science
from A&M. He was commissioned to
second lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force
upon graduation. He was a member of
Squadron 6 and served as a junior and
senior Yell Leader and was immersed
in all aspects of Aggie student life. A
strong supporter of the Corps of Cadets
at Texas A&M, Governor Perry has
been a speaker at countless Aggie mus-
ters since 1990 and was the principal
speaker at the main campus ceremony
in 2002. And he was also the key note
speaker at the 125th anniversary cele-
bration of the Corps of Cadets in 2001.
He exemplifies the Aggie values, self-
less service, respect, loyalty, integrity,
and excellence in leadership.
Before I yield to my colleague, I
would be remiss if I did not note that it
was 20 years ago today that the his-
toric tradition at Texas A&M, the A&M
bonfire that is always built in prepara-
tion for and lit the night before the
game against the University of Texas,
one of the greatest rivalries in sports,
which is long overdue for renewal, 20
years ago today it collapsed at 2:42
a.m. where 11 students and one former
student died and 27 others were in-
jured. Fifty-seven Aggies were working
on the bonfire at the time when they
heard a crack, and it collapsed. My
wife was a senior at the time. And as
we commemorate Governor Perry to-
night, we also commemorate the lives
of those great Aggies who were car-
rying on the spirit of that great insti-
tution.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. WEBER).
Mr. WEBER of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
I rise today to honor Rick Perry in
his final days as Secretary of the De-
partment of Energy. It makes sense
that those lined up to speak would be
from our shared home State, the great
State of Texas. We have served with
him. We have benefited from Rick’s
leadership. We call him friend. Much
can be said and will be said of Rick
Perry in these next few weeks.
As already mentioned, Rick is a fifth
generation Texan, an Aggie, Air Force
pilot, state representative, agricultural
commissioner, lieutenant governor,
longest serving Texas Governor, Sec-
retary of Energy. He will be rightfully
lauded for a life well given to public
service.
In every stage of his life, Rick Perry
sought to do the best for Texas and for
the people of this Nation. As a state
representative, he was one of the most
effective legislators pushing for more
strict budgeting. As Agricultural Com-
missioner, Perry showed his skill at
sales and started what would be a life-
long career as the number one top
salesman for the great State of Texas.
As Governor, Rick helped make
Texas a destination for business and in-
dustry and for families and people.
There is a reason why we still see an
average influx of people, a thousand a
day in our great State.
As Secretary of Energy, we continue
to see the benefits of Rick Perry’s un-
abashed love of Texas and these United
States. Thanks to his leadership, the
United States is now the largest energy
producer in the world with a greatly
expanded footprint in the international
market.
Still, my favorite story which defines
the man that is Rick Perry is one told
by a former rival turned friend, and
that would be Senator Rick Santorum.
Former Senator and Presidential can-
didate Rick Santorum told of the reg-
ular frantic note taking of candidates
while they were on the debate stage,
all except for Rick Perry. Instead, Rick
recounted, Perry only wrote one note.
It was when Rick Santorum told about
the health difficulties his beloved
daughter, Bella, had faced from her
birth.
Following the debate, Rick said the
two men spoke and Rick said as he
looked over Perry’s shoulder at the sin-
gle note written, it had three words:
‘‘Pray for Bella.’’ That, Mr. Speaker, is
a man of faith, compassion, and integ-
rity. It speaks to his character. It
speaks to his effectiveness. It speaks to
his dedication to public service and to
his love of this great country.
I am grateful for having served under
Governor Perry in the State house for
4 years and with Secretary Perry in the
Department of Energy. The great State
of Texas and our Nation are better for
his service.
As Rick Perry moves away from pub-
lic life, his leadership will be missed,
but the legacy he leaves behind will en-
dure.
I thank my friend, Governor Perry,
for all he has done. I thank Anita for
loaning Texas and then America a true
Texas treasure, a true statesman, and a
truly fine individual. Rick and Anita
both deserve a rich time together.
Blessings to them both and please
enjoy the private life.
b 1945
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I yield to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. BABIN), my
friend.
Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman so much for yielding to me.
Mr. Speaker, it is an honor and a
privilege to rise today in honor of En-
ergy Secretary Rick Perry, a devoted
statesman, a proud Texan, and a long-
time friend of mine.
In his early years, Governor Perry
became an Eagle Scout and was taught
what a strong work ethic looked like,
and he has practiced it in every office
he has held since, and those are numer-
ous.
I first met Rick Perry back when he
was Agriculture Commissioner for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.054 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8945
November 18, 2019
Texas in the mid-1990s. In the 25 years
since, he and I have worked together in
various roles, including working to-
gether on the campaign trail. As a
matter of fact, Governor Perry ap-
pointed me to the Lower Neches Valley
Authority, where I served the State for
many years. My son Leif, a Navy
SEAL, is also friends with Governor
Perry’s Navy SEAL son-in-law.
I had the privilege of working with
Rick Perry when he served as the long-
est-serving Governor of Texas in his-
tory, where he successfully earned the
reputation as one of the most success-
ful Governors that our State has ever
had.
While serving as Governor of the
great State of Texas, he oversaw in-
credible economic growth, low unem-
ployment rates, low taxes, the creation
of thousands of jobs, and commonsense
reform that has brought tremendous
success to our State. Texas has become
a mecca for out-of-State Americans
looking for jobs and prosperity.
His tremendous leadership in Texas
and his role in the expansion of Amer-
ica’s energy sector helped carry him to
the position of Secretary of Energy,
which he leads now with character and
strength, expanding our economy while
protecting our environment.
I was proud to work alongside him on
energy reform, and I will continue to
push strong energy policies that he has
advocated for at the Department of En-
ergy.
Rick Perry has dedicated his life to
the service of his State and this coun-
try while living as a devoted man to
God and to his family.
Mr. Speaker, I have the utmost re-
spect for Governor Perry, for what he
has accomplished and the way in which
he has done so.
May God bless him, his beautiful
wife, Anita, and the rest of his family,
and may God bless Texas and the
United States of America.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend for those kind remarks.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. WILLIAMS), my friend.
Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding to me.
I join my colleagues tonight in hon-
oring a devoted public servant and
friend, Rick Perry.
Rick has dedicated his life to making
Texas and America even greater, exem-
plified by his service in the U.S. Air
Force and his record as the longest-
serving Governor in Texas history.
Over two decades ago, I served under
then-Governor Perry as his secretary
of state, where we worked to create a
better Texas. Together, we sold our
home State to America and the world
by ushering in unprecedented economic
growth and creating one of the strong-
est economies in the United States
and, frankly, the world. We would often
tell prospects: Texas wasn’t open for
business; Texas was wide open for busi-
ness.
We traveled across the Nation, vis-
iting our communities and even stop-
ping by a few ballparks along the way,
where I played catcher as he threw out
the first pitch. I would tell you that he
threw more balls than he threw
strikes.
I also have fond memories of our fam-
ilies spending quality time together
over the years. Running the river in
Austin wasn’t bad either.
Rick’s principled and sharp leader-
ship has been a great asset to our Na-
tion while serving as the United States
Secretary of Energy, paving the way
for greater economic growth and en-
ergy independence. Who better to serve
as Energy Secretary than the former
Governor of the leading energy State
in our country?
It has been an honor to play on his
team and to have his support.
Mr. Speaker, I wish Rick, Anita,
Griffin, Sydney, and their new
grandbaby all the best in the next sea-
son of their lives.
Mr. Speaker, again, I remind Sec-
retary Perry how much I appreciated
his call on the night of the baseball
shooting to simply tell me, ‘‘I am with
you, brother.’’
May God bless Texas. May God bless
the Perry family. May God bless this
greatest country in the world, the one
that Rick Perry helped create and
maintain, the United States of Amer-
ica.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend from Texas for those great re-
marks about the Governor.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. BURGESS).
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I am happy to come to the floor to-
night to reflect on a great Texan, a
great American, Secretary Rick Perry.
It has been an honor to have served
the people of Texas alongside Sec-
retary Perry. In fact, my first political
race in 2002 was alongside then-Gov-
ernor Perry, who had succeeded Gov-
ernor Bush when Governor Bush won
the Presidential election and Governor
Perry was running for his first full
term as Governor. Then, as we know,
he went on to serve a full 14 years as
Governor of the State of Texas.
He began serving our country as a C–
130 pilot in the United States Air
Force. More recently, he has been lead-
ing the United States Department of
Energy. With each task, Secretary
Perry has shown true leadership and
fought to uphold the Constitution.
Most recently, as Secretary of the
Department of Energy, Secretary
Perry was dedicated to putting forward
innovative ideas while reducing Fed-
eral overreach and the regulatory bur-
den on Americans.
Back in 2007, in the Subcommittee on
Energy and the full Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, I worked to pre-
vent a mandate on light bulbs that I
thought was ill-advised. I thought it
would be better to let the consumer
make these determinations rather than
the government. I continued this fight
during the appropriations process to
delay rulemaking at the Department of
Energy.
Then, after assuming office, Sec-
retary Perry took steps to protect con-
sumer choices and rolled back the
mandates on light bulbs. I appreciate
Secretary Perry’s efforts in this area
to reduce Federal overreach.
Mr. Speaker, I certainly want to wish
the departing Secretary and his wife,
Anita, the very best, the very best for
their family as they embark on this
new journey.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Secretary Perry
for many years of dedicated service to
our State and our country. As the song
says, ‘‘God bless you, Texas.’’
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend from Texas for his remarks.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. TAYLOR), who rep-
resents the town in which my lovely
bride grew up, Plano, Texas.
Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to give my well-wishes to Gov-
ernor Rick Perry. I think a lot has
been said about his career, so I will
just share a few stories about him.
I was in the Texas House chamber
when he gave his farewell address, and
he noted that he had served his first
three terms in the Texas House as a
Democrat and had changed parties to
become a Republican to run for Texas
Agriculture Commissioner. His com-
ment was, ‘‘I probably made both par-
ties happy,’’ when he made that
change, which I think was a pretty
funny comment. It certainly brought
down that house.
I got to know Governor Perry when
he was Agriculture Commissioner. I
had just graduated from high school,
spent a gap year, spent some time, in
Austin, and I had the privilege of work-
ing for him as an intern in his Inter-
governmental Affairs Department.
There, I learned that to craft good pol-
icy, it takes time, effort, focus, and
hard work.
I worked with him on NAFTA. I
worked with him on aquaculture. I
worked with him on high-speed rail,
where he asked me to go back and dou-
ble-check the numbers to make sure
that he was making the right decision
when he became the first statewide
elected official opposing high-speed rail
in Texas.
I was certainly a beneficiary, having
represented Collin County for almost a
decade, for what Rick Perry has done
for the Texas economy. Between 2007
and 2014, in that 7-year period, Texas
created 1.4 million new jobs, more than
the entire country combined.
Clearly, Rick Perry’s efforts to keep
taxation low, keep regulation reason-
able, and keep litigation at a min-
imum, those three things that he drove
over and over and over again—I think
we can all remember how many times
he said that, whether it was on the
stump, whether it was in legislation,
that he was trying to get these three
things done, and how successful our
State has been as a result of that.
I will also share that Governor Perry
had a special knack. He was a very
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.056 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8946 November 18, 2019
smart man in many ways. The very
first bill I filed in the Texas Legisla-
ture was a bill to increase military vot-
ing. This bill was something that I
knew the Governor cared about be-
cause his staff would ask about it occa-
sionally.
I remember the second to last day in
the legislative session of 2011. I was lit-
erally walking across the floor of the
Texas House, holding the bill in hand.
I saw Governor Perry out of the corner
of my eye, and he actually reached
over and grabbed me, and he said:
Where’s my bill?
I said: The bill I am holding, Gov-
ernor?
He said: Good. Go get it filed with
the clerk.
And I went in and filed it.
It was that kind of ability to know
intuitively what he needed to focus on
and how he needed to focus on it that
I think made him such an effective
leader and one that we all respect.
We are so grateful for Governor Per-
ry’s service. We are so grateful that
Anita would lend him to us and for the
service that he has given to our State
and to our Nation. We are all truly
grateful for him.
Mr. Speaker, I say to Governor
Perry: Partner, we will see you over
the next ridge.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend from Texas for joining us here
this evening and lauding the service
and accomplishments of Governor
Perry, Secretary Perry.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. OLSON), my former
colleague in the United States Senate
and my friend.
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
dear friend from Austin, Texas, for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, on March 4, 1950, in the
Texas Panhandle metropolis of Has-
kell, Texas, Rick Perry was born. Has-
kell lately has a population of 3,322.
That was too much big city for Rick
Perry, so his family moved to Paint
Creek, Texas, current population some-
where around 324.
As was mentioned, he became an
Aggie yell leader. He said he knew
A&M was where he had to go because:
‘‘I was probably a bit of a free spirit.
. . . I would have not lasted at Texas
Tech or the University of Texas. I
would have hit the fraternity scene and
lasted about one semester.’’
As was mentioned, he served our
country in uniform, flying a C–130 Her-
cules, a large aircraft that carries
cargo all over the world that has the
same engine as my P–3 Orion I flew in
the Navy, the Allison T56–A14. We
share that common bond.
Rick was elected to serve in the
Texas House in 1984. He became what
was known as a pit bull. The Texas
House has a place they go called the pit
to have strong, strong, strong debates.
Rick wanted to go off on people who
wanted to spend, spend, spend. The pit
bulls in Texas had a raging bull in Rick
Perry.
In 1990, he became our Agriculture
Commissioner. In 1998, he allowed
American history to be changed in a
very positive way. He ran against a guy
named John Sharp to become our Lieu-
tenant Governor. It was very close,
Aggie versus Aggie. Rick won by about
1.7 points, but that victory enabled
George W. Bush to leave his beloved
Texas and become America’s 43rd
President. Governor Bush knew he
could leave with Texas in great hands
of prosperity and with a bright future,
and Rick Perry did not disappoint.
As our longest-serving Governor with
14 years in Austin, Texas, on his watch,
great things happened in our State
that are the models for America and
the world.
He got true medical liability reform
passed in Texas that changed our pro-
vision of healthcare for our citizens be-
cause doctors were fleeing our State
because of unjustified lawsuits. They
came back in droves when this bill was
passed and became an amendment to
our constitution, all because of Rick
Perry’s leadership.
He changed our energy market to a
market with competition, driving
prices down and giving people the
cheapest, most reliable energy in
America.
b 2000
He had Texas squared away, so when
America went into recession in 2007,
our State, one State, created half the
private-sector jobs in America over
2007 and 2008.
And he also got a big start with tech-
nology, a place in Houston called
Celltex, which uses human beings’ own
stem cells to repair broken bones and
long-term injuries. They are thriving,
and that is all because of Governor
Rick Perry.
On March 2 of 2017, the Senate con-
firmed him to be America’s Secretary
of Energy. He tried to make D.C. just
like Texas. On his watch, the only via-
ble carbon capture-enhanced oil recov-
ery operation in the entire world, in
Texas 22, the Petro Nova project with
NRG, was started.
On his watch, we started exporting
American crude oil all over the world.
On Rick Perry’s watch, we have sent
liquified natural gas—we call that liq-
uid ‘‘American freedom’’—all over the
world, helping allies in need, allies like
India, like South Korea, like Japan,
and like Eastern Europe break the hold
on energy that comes from Russia or
OPEC.
I will close with a statement from a
Texas legend that applies directly to
Governor Rick Perry. Bum was talking
about Earl Campbell, the famous
Heisman Trophy winner, a Hall of
Famer in the NFL who played for the
Houston Oilers for just under a decade.
Bum was asked: Is Earl in a class by
himself? And Bum’s answer applies to
Earl and applies to Governor Rick
Perry. Rick may not be in a class by
himself, but whatever class he is in, it
don’t take long to call the roll.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Rick and Anita
for their service to America and the
great State of Texas. They will never,
ever be forgotten.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleague from Texas. I know that he
appreciates the Governor’s military
service because he, too, is a veteran. I
thank him for his service, and I thank
him for the kind remarks for the Gov-
ernor. I know he will cherish and ap-
preciate those.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from west Texas (Mr. ARRINGTON), who
represents my father’s alma mater,
Texas Tech University, and ask his in-
dulgences after the NCAA basketball
championship.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my dear friend and fellow Texan,
Mr. CHIP ROY.
Get your guns up, Mr. ROY. I thank
you for that introduction, and I thank
you for hosting tonight’s Special Order
for our friend and fearless leader for
Texas and for this great Nation, Rick
Perry.
It is, I think, pretty telling that
every Texan who has taken the mike to
pay tribute to our friend Rick Perry
has spoken with the fondness of a deep
friendship, and I think that is a tribute
to Secretary Perry. He was a man who
could connect with just about any-
body—not because he had the special
political gift; it is because he had gen-
uine love for people. That was his gift.
I am glad that God saw fit to allow him
to deploy that as our Governor, as Sec-
retary, and in public service for many,
many years.
My favorite Rick Perry quote: If you
want to make America great again,
make it more like Texas.
Mr. Speaker, in the summer of 2017,
Energy Secretary Rick Perry unveiled
a vision for our Nation, not only to be-
come energy independent, but energy
dominant. Predictably, some in the
mainstream media responded by dis-
missing it as overly ambitious and un-
realistic.
The Washington Post said about his
vision that it was ‘‘dominated by mis-
leading claims.’’ The Los Angeles
Times said that the plan ‘‘threatens
the entire planet.’’ Not only did their
criticism miss the mark on both ac-
counts, but, fortunately, for the Amer-
ican people, they were definitively
disproven by our friend and fearless
leader, Secretary Rick Perry.
We were once a nation reliant on for-
eign sources of energy. Today, we are
on track to become a net energy ex-
porter by 2020. By 2025, U.S. oil produc-
tion is expected to equal that of Saudi
Arabia and Russia, combined.
Under Secretary Rick Perry’s leader-
ship, the United States has become a
net exporter of natural gas for the first
time since 1957. In fact, the U.S. is on
track to more than double its LNG ex-
port capacity by the end of this year.
Not only were we able to increase our
energy production and export capacity
in these United States, we have done it
while leading the world in reducing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.057 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8947
November 18, 2019
carbon emissions, decreasing our out-
put of CO2 by 42 million tons, while, at
the same time, the European Union in-
creased its carbon by about the same
amount, China increased theirs by al-
most three times the amount that we
reduced our carbon, and India twice as
much of an increase to our decrease.
I would say that is a heck of a track
record for our Texas Secretary of En-
ergy.
Mr. Speaker, our Nation’s energy se-
curity is and always will be a matter of
national security. And thanks to the
skilled leadership of Secretary Perry, I
am proud to say that America is, in-
deed, safer and more secure today than,
well, than it was before he took office.
I am especially proud, Mr. Speaker,
that our Nation’s leading voice for en-
ergy dominance was born and reared in
west Texas, right smack in the middle
of my district, Texas 19.
I think Mr. ROY would agree with me
that, if you are a Texan, no matter
what your title is and how far up the
chain you go in political leadership,
the Governor is always the highest
title of all. So I am going to call him
Governor Perry. I can’t wait to refer to
him as Governor Perry again.
Rick Perry is a fifth-generation
Texan. He is from Haskell, USA, which
is 50 miles north of Abilene.
I remember introducing him once in
Lubbock, saying that there are some
people and politicians who have street
cred, and then there are some who have
farm-to-market cred. Where I come
from, Mr. Speaker, farm-to-market
cred is more important.
He had a bead on all things rural
America because he was rural America.
He understood that the small towns
and the highways and the byways of
this country were not just producing
our food, fuel, and fiber; they were pro-
ducing a people with a substance and a
character that this Nation desperately
needed.
He understood that west Texas,
where he hails from and where I hail
from and have the honor of rep-
resenting, that our greatest contribu-
tion wasn’t as the energy basin or as
the breadbasket, but as the backbone
of American traditional values. I so ap-
preciate that. Nobody was a greater
champion or a stronger voice.
We heard his background tonight. I
want to thank him for his service to
our country wearing the uniform. He
served at Dyess Air Force Base, which
is the largest B–1 bomber base in the
country, and it is also in my district.
Of course, he went on to serve as
State representative, agriculture com-
missioner, Lieutenant Governor, and,
of course, the longest serving Governor
in the history of Texas.
I think Mr. ROY would agree with me
that he was the quintessential Texas
Governor. He had that boldness, that
optimism, that indomitable spirit that
embodied Texas. He had that Texas
swagger. He was confident, but he was
humbled to know that he needed the
right team and that he needed help
from everybody to take Texas to that
next level.
Nobody could sell Texas like him. I
mean, he recruited some of the best
and brightest talent from around the
world. He brought businesses in of all
sectors from around the world. He was
a true believer in the Texas miracle,
and we are all the better in Texas for
his leadership.
Like all good west Texans, I would
say to Mr. ROY that the bottom line is
he was a salt-of-the-earth guy, and he
was a straight-shooting guy.
Let me do a little straight shooting
for the American people with respect
to what kind of nation the United
States is on account of his leadership
over the last couple of years: U.S. en-
ergy production reached a record high;
the U.S. has become the largest crude
oil producer in the world; American
natural gas production hit a record
high for 2 straight years, both in 2017
and 2018.
When Americans look back on this
era in our history, they will know the
powerful, lasting impact of Governor
Rick Perry and what he has done in
terms of handing this country to the
next generation of Americans: more
prosperous, more free, and more secure.
They will know that our producers in
west Texas and across this country
were empowered to unleash a new era
of American energy dominance. They
will know that this kid from Haskell,
Texas, was at the helm during this his-
toric transformation.
So from one small town west Texas
boy to another, I thank Rick Perry for
his service; I thank him for the sac-
rifices that he has made; I thank him
for his love for this country; I thank
him for his passion for everything good
about America; and I thank him for
putting that on display with the way
he operated, the way he led, and just
who he is—just who he is.
Mr. Speaker, I say to Anita Perry:
We know—Mr. ROY and I both, and ev-
erybody who has been called to service
understands—that she and her children
have made a tremendous sacrifice. I
just want to say God bless her in this
next phase of her life with Rick. I pray
that he brings great joy to your lives
and to the life of your family.
My last quote is from the first Presi-
dent of Texas Tech University. It goes
like this:
Everything that is done on these west
Texas plains ought to be done on a big scale.
It’s a part of the country that lends itself to
bigness.
Mr. Speaker, Rick Perry was a small
town kid with a big heart, and he has
made a big impact on these United
States. So God bless Rick Perry, God
bless this great Nation, and go west
Texas.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend from Texas for those inspiring
remarks about our mutual friend, the
former Governor of Texas, although he
will always be the Governor of Texas in
our hearts. I know he will appreciate
those sentiments.
As someone who—my father grew up
down the road in Sweetwater, Texas,
and is a west Texan, just down the road
from where he grew up, and you can
share those experiences. There is some-
thing special about that part of the
world, the people and what it means. I
think the United States could learn a
lot from spending some time with the
good people of west Texas.
I would point out, following what was
just said, in 2016, when Governor Perry
was thinking about running for Presi-
dent, at that time, he was on the stage,
and to his right, when he announced
his Presidential campaign, was Marcus
Luttrell, a retired member of the Navy
SEALs, who was the only survivor of a
2005 attack by the Taliban in Afghani-
stan. He wrote a book about his experi-
ence, called ‘‘Lone Survivor,’’ as you
know, which has become a movie.
To Mr. Perry, to the Governor, our
friend, Mr. Luttrell is more than a
military veteran and best-selling au-
thor. He is practically a member of the
family. Now, why is that?
b 2015
Well, as Perry said, ‘‘He is not just
the lone survivor. He is a second son.’’
Marcus was in physical therapy in
San Diego in 2006 when he met the Gov-
ernor and his wife, Anita, who were
there on vacation. And they recon-
nected in Texas where Mr. Luttrell was
from, and Mr. Perry took Mr. Luttrell
into his home.
He is living there. He is the Gov-
ernor, and he took Marcus into his
home to live with him while he was
dealing with post-traumatic stress dis-
order. They are now friends, and Gov-
ernor Perry is the godfather of Mr.
Luttrell’s children. That is who he is.
Mr. Speaker, you know that, I know
that, and those of us from Texas know
that.
I would point out how great this
world would be if the E.U. or the U.N.
would hire the Secretary to go be in
charge of energy for the world. Can you
imagine if we were able to export LNG
from Texas to China and to India and
the places that are polluting the world?
Imagine if we could export the kind of
entrepreneurship and capability that
Texans are doing that are driving the
world’s economy.
Literally, the tip of the spear for the
world’s economy is the great State of
Texas. And it is largely due to the spir-
it of the people of Texas which is exem-
plified by that great Governor.
I would make a few points here. The
philosophy of the Governor when I
worked for him was, ‘‘I have been guid-
ed by a simple philosophy: that job cre-
ation, not higher taxation, is the best
form of revenue generation.’’ And I
think this body could learn a lot from
that. Follow the model of Texas.
That philosophy served the people of
Texas well. In his tenure he added more
than 2.2 million jobs, or Texas did. Ac-
cording to the Bureau of Labor Statis-
tics, that is nearly four times the na-
tional average during the same
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:45 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.059 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8948 November 18, 2019
timeline. Twenty-three percent in
Texas, versus 6 percent in the United
States as a whole.
Twenty-nine percent of all new jobs
in the United States came from Texas.
Employment grew three times faster in
Texas than in California, New York,
Florida, Illinois, or Pennsylvania.
Texas led wage growth across all in-
come levels. Ninety-five percent of all
jobs in Texas paid above the minimum
in 2013 when he was at the height of
being Governor.
He grew Texas’ economy to become
the world’s twelfth largest economy.
Today it is the tenth under current
Governor Greg Abbott.
It wasn’t just about the growth, but
as the Governor said in his 2005 address
to the people of Texas: ‘‘Our challenge
is to make sound, strategic invest-
ments that withstand the test of
time.’’
It was his fiscal conservatism,
though, that I think a lot of people
looked to the Governor, is how he led
that great State, unlike this body, bal-
ancing our budgets, and doing so while
growing our great economy.
He understands what everyone in
Washington can’t seem to wrap their
head around, that you can’t spend
money you don’t have. While this body
racks up $100 million of debt per hour,
Texas balances its budget while leading
the world in job creation.
While Perry was Governor, Texas cut
spending, balanced the budget, and
grew the Texas economy exponentially.
The State of Texas, under Perry’s lead-
ership, finished the ‘13-’14 legislative
session with a $2.6 billion surplus;
things we can only dream of here in
Washington right now.
He fought tax hikes, passed the larg-
est school property tax rate decrease in
Texas State history at the time; passed
extensive property tax breaks for dis-
abled veterans and their spouses; and
championed the idea that the people,
not the government, are the drivers of
growth and innovation.
Governor Perry oversaw perhaps the
largest transformation of energy tech-
nology and policy in Texas history, set-
ting the foundation for extraordinary
achievements to come. Breakthroughs
in hydraulic fracturing, which some
people use as the bogeyman, creates
the engine of the prosperity our Nation
is now feeling and that is now being ex-
ported around the world.
We are sitting in this great Chamber
with lights fueled by natural gas. That
is what Texas is doing. That is how
Texas is leading the world. It led to an
oil and natural gas surge in Texas
growing by roughly 260 percent and 50
percent respectively.
Texas is producing more oil than Iraq
and Afghanistan, leading the way for
America to achieve energy independ-
ence, which we only could dream of a
mere decade or 15 years ago.
The State’s wind power sector hardly
existed when the Governor came to of-
fice, but Texas became the Nation’s
leader in wind energy generation dur-
ing his tenure in his all-of-the-above
approach.
Perry took the same progrowth men-
tality to Washington during his time
as Secretary of Energy. As Energy Sec-
retary, Perry focused not only on se-
curing American energy independence,
but on our stability and capacity to ex-
port LNG, liquefied natural gas, around
the world.
Because of his leadership, the U.S.
will be able to provide allies and part-
ners with affordable energy that will
drive economic growth and prosperity
around the world. America has seen
this historic growth while leading the
world in total CO2 emissions reduction
since 2005.
When the Governor stepped down
from Texas, briefly thinking he was
done with public service before being
pulled back as the Secretary of En-
ergy—that is why I am not sure he is
done with his public service yet, by the
way—‘‘Texas is a State,’’ he said,
‘‘where nothing is impossible. Where
the sons and daughters of migrant
workers can aspire to own the farm;
where the children of factory workers
can build new-age manufacturing fa-
cilities; and where the son of tenant
farmers’’—as was the Governor—‘‘can
become Governor of the greatest State
in the Union.
‘‘In Texas, it’s not where you come
from that matters, it’s where you are
going. Texas doesn’t recognize the arti-
ficial barriers of race, class, or creed.
‘‘The most vivid dreams take flight
from the most humble beginnings, and
so it was for me,’’ said the Governor.
‘‘As many of you know, I grew up in
a place called Paint Creek. When I was
young, we didn’t have electricity or
running water. Mom bathed us in a
number two washtub. And we attended
the Paint Creek Rural School, where
some of the teachers lived on campus.
Their profession was literally their
life, and they inspired me,’’ he said.
‘‘In fact, I’m proud to say I graduated
in the top 10 of my class of 13 stu-
dents,’’ he added. ‘‘I can assure you
none of my teachers knew they were
instructing a future Governor.
‘‘But they also have a motto at the
Paint Creek School that summarizes
the endless possibilities for its stu-
dents: ‘No dream too tall for a school
so small.’ ’’
This is the story of Texas. This is the
story of America. When will we go back
to that story again? When will we talk
about those aspirations that America
represents, that that flag represents,
that this body represents, instead of
the games that we play in this place
rightly known as the swamp?
He said: ‘‘In this, the people’s
House,’’ referring to the Texas House,
‘‘we’re in the business of making
dreams possible. Every dream counts,
every child matters. . . . And in Texas,
every child has a chance. That is the
Texas we have built together, a Texas
of unlimited opportunity. There’s a
reason more people move to Texas than
any other State, because this is the
best place to find a job, raise your fam-
ily, and pursue your dreams.
‘‘In some respects, this has been true
for a long time,’’ he said. ‘‘In the early
1800s, Americans headed west, leaving
their troubles behind to find a second
chance.’’
That is what my family did. Maybe
what your family did, my friend from
Texas.
My family came from Georgia to
Dripping Springs, Texas, in 1853. My
great-great-great grandparents are bur-
ied just a few miles down the road from
where my wife, Carrah, and I have 10
acres outside of Austin, Texas. They
came there seeking a better way of life.
My great-great grandmother was born
in San Marcos, and she married my
great-great grandfather who was a
Texas Ranger battling Comanches and
Comanche incursions at the time sign-
ing up in Hays, and Travis, and Blanco
Counties. It was a tough country.
There were no handouts. There was
no government to go seek some refuge
from. You just had to grab yourself up
by your bootstraps—yes, we still like
that phrase and we still use it in
Texas—and figure out how to survive.
‘‘They planted roots; tamed a harsh
land; won a revolution; founded a re-
public; survived droughts; wildfires and
hurricanes; discovered crude; started
great universities; and took mankind
to the Moon.’’
In his tenure alone, the Governor
said: ‘‘We have been tested by the dis-
integration of the space shuttle; Hurri-
canes Katrina, Rita, and Ike; dev-
astating wildfires; the spread of Ebola;
and a humanitarian crisis at the bor-
der.
‘‘Each time, Texans have responded
to these tests with great character. As
long as there has been a Texas, there
has existed a people whose character
has been refined by fire, whose souls
are resilient, who respond to tragedy
with grace, and who look to the future
with hope.
‘‘What we have done together is pre-
serve Texas as a land of opportunity,
making our economy more diverse and
jobs more plentiful.’’
I could go on. I will just close out
here by saying, all of that is applicable
to this, the United States of America.
All of that is who we are. And we would
do well to remember that again. It is
the greatness of this country that we
must return to.
The Governor, when he served in the
Air Force, flew C–130s. And one time as
the Governor, he was over in Iraq or
Afghanistan—I don’t remember
which—and he was flying in a C–130,
rattling around as you do you when
you fly in those planes. He landed, and
as he always did when he was flying
around, he went up and talked to those
guys flying the plane, because he would
have rather been in that cockpit than
whatever he was doing as Governor.
And he went up there and he talked to
them, and then he started looking;
they went and looked at the manifest
and the history of the airplane, and he
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.061 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8949
November 18, 2019
had flown that C–130 in the 1970 when
he was a pilot in the Air Force. That is
who he was. He wanted to go find out
and he wanted to talk to those guys.
When the Governor ran for President
in 2011–2012, I worked on his Presi-
dential campaign. I had been working
in his office, and that was when I was
diagnosed with Hodgkin’s lymphoma,
as I referenced earlier. As I said earlier,
he called me from a debate stage—lit-
erally going on stage—to make sure
and check on me and check on my
health and see how I was doing during
chemotherapy. That is just who he
was. That is who he has always been.
When he was launching his campaign
in Charleston, South Carolina, I unfor-
tunately had to miss that. I was going
to be there, but I was at MD Anderson
Cancer Center in Houston starting
treatment. But when he announced, he
used a phrase: ‘‘ . . . making Wash-
ington, D.C., as inconsequential in our
lives as possible.’’
It is what I aspire to do here as a
Member in this body. Not because
there are not great things we can do in
this body, but because the greatness of
this country lies outside of this body.
It lies outside of this city. It lies in
every town, in every community, in
every school, in every business, in
every hospital, all around this great
country where people wake up every
day to make lives better.
Too much of our focus is on what
happens here. Too many Sunday morn-
ings are about what is happening on
‘‘Meet the Press’’ instead of what is
happening in the church pew, instead
of what is happening down the street.
Too many people are looking to the
VA to solve problems for the veterans
instead of wondering, who is the vet-
eran 5 miles down the road who needs
help right now?
We solve problems like the Cajun
Navy coming over to Houston, like the
people of Texas rising up in the wake of
floods after hurricanes to solve prob-
lems for real people in real time.
Instead of mortgaging our future
with fake promises that we can’t afford
while this body has show votes—no
matter who is in charge, by the way—
on resolutions and bills, and never sits
here and has the real debates and the
real work of what we need to do.
The real work is going on outside of
this body. Governor Perry represents
the greatness of this Nation. Both his
life story and who he is, he embodies
the greatness of this country.
I wholeheartedly endorse making
Washington, D.C., as inconsequential
in the lives of Americans as possible,
because our country will be ever great-
er as the State of Texas has been ever
greater under his leadership and since
our inception as a State in leading this
country and leading this world.
I thank the Governor. I thank his
lovely wife. I thank his family. I look
forward to seeing what he is going to
do next.
And with that, and on behalf of all
Texans and my colleagues here in the
House, I yield back the balance of my
time.
f
MENTAL HEALTH IN THE BLACK
COMMUNITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from the
Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT) is recog-
nized for 60 minutes as the designee of
the majority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include any ex-
traneous material on the subject of
this Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from the Virgin Islands?
There was no objection.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, to-
night we will address mental health
within the Black community, the lack
of access to treatment, and the stigma
of mental health within our commu-
nity.
The stigma of mental health and lack
of access to treatment within the
Black community frequently leads to
Black people ignoring or dismissing
those signs of illness.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Ohio (Mrs. BEATTY) to
give remarks on this and other matters
of health in our community as well as
in America.
b 2030
Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, first, I
thank my colleague and friend, Con-
gresswoman PLASKETT, for leading to-
night’s Congressional Black Caucus
Special Order hour.
First, and certainly fitting, to to-
night’s topic on mental health, I salute
the life and legacy of a giant in the
healthcare industry who passed on No-
vember 10, Bernard Tyson, president
and CEO of Kaiser Permanente and
friend.
Just this year, Mr. Speaker, he was
talking to the editor-in-chief of For-
tune magazine about lessons learned
and lessons that were worth remem-
bering, and now he has left them be-
hind, and those lessons were about
mental health.
He was talking about, in this
healthcare system, we have a system of
healthcare for the body and for the
mind, and he had integrated both into
his system, and he had done it in a
seamless way and in a way that did not
have stigma.
So, tonight, I say to my friend: Rest
in peace. Rest in positive power in
healthcare.
But also, Mr. Speaker, the Congres-
sional Black Caucus is coming together
tonight, as the Congresswoman has
said and as she powerfully leads us, to
elevate the conversation about mental
health in the African American com-
munity.
Millions of adults and children are
impacted by mental health conditions
each year, including depression, schizo-
phrenia, bipolar disorder, post-trau-
matic stress, and anxiety.
For too long in our country, there
was a stigma associated with mental
health, especially in our community,
the African American community. Ac-
cording to the United States Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services,
Offices of Minority Health, just in 2017,
suicide was the second leading cause of
death for African Americans between
the ages of 15 and 24. Additionally, the
death rate from suicide for Black men
was four times greater than for African
American women in 2017.
We are encouraged, encouraged to see
more influencers, such as Jay-Z and
the ‘‘Breakfast Club’’ host,
Charlamagne, speak out about mental
health disparities in the Black commu-
nity. But as the gentlewoman is lead-
ing us tonight in saying more must be
done, the Federal Government has a
moral obligation to invest more re-
sources into mental health services.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for her leadership, and I thank
her for being a voice for us on this
topic.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman so much for
her admonishment to us to continue
working, to continue doing what is
necessary for those of us who live in
the Black community, for those who
are affected by what is a lack of treat-
ment in the Black community, particu-
larly in the area of mental health.
This may explain why Black adults
are 20 percent more likely to be re-
ported having serious psychological
distress than White adults. They are
also more likely to have feelings of
sadness, helplessness, and worthless-
ness compared to their White counter-
parts. And while less likely than their
White counterparts to die from suicide,
Black teenagers are more likely to at-
tempt suicide than our White teen-
agers.
Socioeconomic determinants have
been found to have significant effects
on mental health. In the Black commu-
nity, class and poverty are two power-
ful, impactful factors.
Black adults living in poverty are
two to three times more likely to re-
port serious psychological distress
than those living above the poverty
line.
Black people of all ages are more
likely to be victims of serious violent
crime than non-Hispanic Whites, mak-
ing them more likely to meet the diag-
nostic criteria for post-traumatic
stress disorder.
Mental health conditions do not dis-
criminate based on race, color, gender,
or identity. Anyone can experience the
challenges of mental illness, regardless
of their background. However, cultural
differences, life experiences, socio-
economic conditions, and how well-in-
formed one is can affect how an indi-
vidual copes with these conditions.
In the Virgin Islands, after the dev-
astating storms of 2017, studies orga-
nized by the Community Foundation of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.062 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8950 November 18, 2019
the Virgin Islands found that the trau-
ma and lack of community caused a
significant percentage of the popu-
lation, both children and adults alike,
to develop various mental health prob-
lems.
Younger children are reverting to be-
haviors they had once advanced be-
yond, and older children are displaying
cognitive impairment and aggressive
tendencies.
Also, about 60 percent of adults in
the Virgin Islands are exhibiting symp-
toms of depression; the same percent-
age showed signs of PTSD.
More than a year after the storms, 40
percent of surveyed students had symp-
toms of PTSD, with some admitting to
having suicidal thoughts.
Although anyone can develop a men-
tal health problem, African Americans
sometimes experience more severe
forms of mental health conditions due
to unmet needs and other barriers.
According to the Health and Human
Services Offices of Minority Health, Af-
rican Americans are 20 percent more
likely to experience serious psycho-
logical distress. Black Americans are
also more likely to experience socio-
economic disparities, such as exclusion
from health, educational, social, and
economic resources, and are often not
believed by medical professionals when
reporting symptoms—often not be-
lieved. These disparities contribute to
unfavorable mental health outcomes.
Historical adversity, including slav-
ery, sharecropping, segregation, along
with other means of race-based exclu-
sions from health, educational, and so-
cioeconomic resources, have led us to
the disparities experienced by Black
Americans today. Despite progressive
gains and reform in our society, racism
lingers and continues to impact the
Black community, including the state
of mental health.
One of the individuals who is fighting
this—not just mental health, but all
health issues, and particularly among
African Americans, the Black commu-
nity—is my colleague from Chicago,
Congresswoman ROBIN KELLY. She
leads the Congressional Black Caucus
in health areas by leading our
Braintrust on Health and has spent a
significant amount of time in her dis-
trict and throughout this country high-
lighting the issues that affect African
Americans, disparities in health issues,
as well as mental health.
I ask her to speak to you, Mr. Speak-
er, about those issues that affect Black
Americans, about those issues that im-
pact our community and, therefore,
impacts America, that does not let us
be our best.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Illinois (Ms. KELLY).
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Congresswoman PLASKETT for
yielding and for her continued leader-
ship in advancing equity and access for
all Americans.
Mr. Speaker, I rise tonight to speak
about something that is far too often
ignored in our communities, especially
the African American community:
mental health.
Before starting my career in public
office, I obtained a master’s in coun-
seling and worked as a mental health
professional. As someone with real-life
experiences, I can tell you that mental
health challenges are more common
than anyone thinks and that the only
path forward is to be open and honest
about it so more people can get the
help and support they need to be
healthy and thriving.
According to recent surveys, African
Americans are 20 percent more likely
to experience psychological distress
than White Americans, but just 25 per-
cent will seek care compared to 40 per-
cent of White Americans. Clearly, stig-
ma around mental health and therapy
remain a significant barrier to con-
necting those in need with care.
We can all agree that Americans, no
matter where they live or what they
look like, should have access to afford-
able and accessible mental health serv-
ices. However, this was not the case
until 2010, with the passage of the Af-
fordable Care Act, which moved mental
healthcare from a nice-to-have to es-
sential care—what it always should
have been considered.
Defining mental healthcare as essen-
tial healthcare was a major step for-
ward. But as I noted before, stigma
still prevents too many from seeking
and assessing the care they need. That
is why I am proud of the efforts under-
taken by the Congressional Black Cau-
cus Health Braintrust and the Congres-
sional Caucus of Black Women and
Girls, which I chair and co-chair, re-
spectively, to destigmatize seeking
mental healthcare.
Last year, we were joined by the first
lady of New York City, Chirlane Irene
McCray, for a briefing on how we can
destigmatize mental healthcare and
better share our personal experiences
to help and empower others. The video
of that conversation is still on my
Facebook page, and it warms my heart
to see women sharing their stories on
the thread months after the Facebook
Live ended.
We need more events like this. We
need more conversations where we put
it all on the table and accept the sim-
ple fact that, yes, it is hard sometimes,
but there are people and organizations
who can help.
In addition to reducing stigma, which
is something every Member of this
House can do in their own districts and
communities, we need to continue
working to connect the most vulner-
able with care, in particular, those who
are regularly impacted by gun vio-
lence. In parts of Chicagoland, our
young people have levels of PTSD on
par with veterans returning from Iraq
and Afghanistan.
While we absolutely must address
easy access to guns—as a reminder,
H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background
Checks Act, has been sitting on Senate
Majority Leader MITCH MCCONNELL’s
desk for more than 200 days—we cannot
forget that communities have been ex-
periencing this violence for decades be-
cause of congressional inaction.
We talk about PTSD as post-trau-
matic. Many in my communities have
present-traumatic; it is not ‘‘post.’’ It
goes on day after day after day.
To break the cycle of violence, these
communities need programs that em-
power our young people and create
hope. I always say nothing stops a bul-
let like an opportunity.
We need to work together, Repub-
licans and Democrats, House and Sen-
ate, to ensure an end to gun violence
and ensure robust programs that ad-
dress the long-term psychological im-
pacts created by years of unchecked vi-
olence. This is going to affect us for
generations unless we do something
about it.
And, finally, I want to talk about a
tragic reality in our Nation. Suicide
rates are rising. Suicide is the leading
cause of death for Generation Z, our
Nation’s young people. I believe our
host, Congresswoman PLASKETT, talked
about the effects on African American
young people. Our Nation’s veterans
are still struggling to access the care
they need and deserve.
In Chicagoland, we, tragically, expe-
rienced a marked rise in first responder
suicides. Likewise, we are seeing rising
rates in rural America, especially
among our farmers because of severe
weather, low commodity prices, and
the failed Trump trade war.
It is past time to make suicide pre-
vention a priority. We are losing too
many fathers, sisters, sons, and neigh-
bors to this epidemic. We are losing too
many African American fathers, sis-
ters, sons, and neighbors to this epi-
demic.
In conclusion, I want to challenge my
colleagues to take up the mantle of
mental health. In 2010, this House de-
clared mental health essential, just
like care for our heart, kidneys, and
lungs. We now recognize that our
minds and mental well-being are a key
part of our overall health and should be
covered as such.
However, that declaration was nearly
a decade ago. We know it is important,
so we need to get to work on it now.
Let’s pass Congresswoman GRACE
NAPOLITANO’s bipartisan Mental Health
Services for Students Act and help put
more counselors and mental health
professionals back in our schools to
serve our students.
Let’s pass Congressman CLEAVER’s
bipartisan Cady Housh and Gemesha
Thomas Student Suicide Prevention
Act to address the shocking and grow-
ing rate of suicide among our Nation’s
students and young people.
And let’s pass Congresswoman
PLASKETT’s bipartisan Territories
Health Equity Act to ensure that
Americans living in territories have
the same access to quality mental
healthcare as Americans living in the
continental United States.
In summary, Mr. Speaker, 2010
marked a significant and bold step for-
ward. We need to be bold today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.064 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8951
November 18, 2019
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Illinois
for what she has said, and, Mr. Speak-
er, I would engage the Congresswoman,
through the Chair, in a discussion. I
know that she has been going around
the country to so many districts and
talked with so many people about
healthcare, about the disparities of
health.
Is there a connection between the
lack of access to physical healthcare
and how it affects communities in
terms of mental care as well?
I yield to the gentlewoman.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Well, in some
communities there is a lack of both
physical and mental healthcare, but I
think we still have to deal with the
stigma that people don’t see mental
health as a part of healthcare.
I know, in the Chicagoland area,
right when I became a Congresswoman,
actually, there were six mental health
facilities shut down, so if someone
wanted help, they may have to take
two buses, a taxi, on and on and on.
There is such a barrier of not only a fa-
cility not being there, but also the ones
that are around, it is so hard for people
to get to them.
And some of the neighborhoods, like
I said, people don’t even want to come
outside because of the violence and
some of the particular—not all over,
but in some of the neighborhoods.
People are traumatized by the block
they live on. They don’t want to send
their kids to play in the park. They
don’t want to go to the store. To deal
with this every day, to hear gunshots
every day, to have to deal with vio-
lence every day, that affects you on
that day, but it affects you years later,
also.
Ms. PLASKETT. I think so much
about when the gentlewoman said peo-
ple talk about post-traumatic stress
disorder, and there are so many people
in our country who are having present-
day traumatic stress disorder.
In the Black community, there is
this stigma to just live through it, not
discuss it, and begin normalizing the
kind of life that we lead, the kind of
fear that many people in Black com-
munities have, whether it is fear of
being shot or fear of the police.
Mr. Speaker, I think, as a Black
mother having four sons, I begin to
think that it is normal to be concerned
for my sons out at night. That is not
normal, and that is going to affect
your mental state after a while.
So I think of all these people and the
things that they are going through.
b 2045
Right. It should not be normal. We
are, unfortunately, normalizing some
things. But no, that should not be nor-
mal.
Every mother worries about their
child, but it shouldn’t be, ‘‘If my child
is not home by a certain time, I am so
worried,’’ and all of these things that
are going through your mind. That
should not be normal for us.
The other thing is, when you are
stressing out about certain things, that
not only affects your mental health,
but it affects your physical health also.
It affects your body head to toe, which
is not good either. Then it gets into the
high blood pressure that we face and
heart disease and those kinds of things.
It really does have a huge effect all
over, not just on one thing or the
other.
Ms. PLASKETT. I think about how,
if a family has individuals with diabe-
tes, hypertension, the other issues, and
they are taking money and time to
deal with that—if, in fact, they are—
they are not considering going to coun-
seling or going to some other things
about depression or other things that
they may be feeling and things that
may be happening within their home.
It is a matter of taking care of what
is the immediacy.
Still, the stigma is there that your
mental health is not as important as
your physical health.
I yield to the gentlewoman.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. I think men-
tal health gets put on the back burner,
that people will talk about, ‘‘Oh, my
arm hurts,’’ or this hurts, or that
hurts, but they don’t want to say, ‘‘I
am depressed,’’ or ‘‘I am down,’’ or ‘‘I
need counseling.’’
I sometimes think in our commu-
nity—maybe in others, but we know in
our community, ‘‘You need to man
up,’’ or be strong, or give it to God
even. You know, God will take care of
this, that, and the other, so have faith,
and those kinds of things.
I think that God also put doctors and
counselors on this Earth—and thera-
pists—for us to use them and use their
services. I think not enough of us do
that, or we don’t feel comfortable. If no
one else in the family ever talks about
it, then you don’t grow up even think-
ing that is a possibility.
Ms. PLASKETT. Then there is the
issue of having culturally sensitive
doctors as well.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Definitely.
Ms. PLASKETT. Because so many in-
dividuals in the African American com-
munity, if they are going to speak with
a psychiatrist, a mental health profes-
sional, if that individual does not—
never mind that they don’t look like
them, but if they are not culturally
sensitive to the issues, they may not
come back the second time. They may
not even make the appointment if they
realize that this person is not going to
be able to understand the life that they
lead here as a Black person in America.
I yield to the gentlewoman.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Congress-
woman, you hit the nail on the head.
That is so true.
There have been so many studies
that show you do better when the per-
son who is helping you looks like you
or is sensitive to your realities, your
community, what you are really about.
That is so true.
Also, that is the other thing. With
the Congressional Black Caucus Health
Braintrust, the other thing that we
really push to do is to diversify the
healthcare pipeline because that is the
only way that is going to change, too.
The other thing is letting our young
people know that that is a good thing,
to be a counselor or a social worker or
a psychiatrist or a psychologist, that
we should be looking into those fields
also.
You hit the nail on the head. It is
hard enough for people to go to coun-
seling or to admit they are depressed,
so when they do seek out care, it has to
be someone who can be empathetic and
sensitive to their needs. Because if
they are not, then the person definitely
is not going to go back, and then, we
are back to square one.
Ms. PLASKETT. I was looking at a
statistic here that, according to the
Health Resources and Services Admin-
istration, 89.3 million Americans live
in federally designated mental health
professional shortage areas, in contrast
to only 55.3 million Americans living in
similarly designated primary care
shortage areas and 44.6 million living
in dental health shortage areas.
There is, within the greater Amer-
ican society, a shortage of those profes-
sionals in the mental health area. For
African Americans, that number is ex-
acerbated with African Americans that
look like themselves.
We are just thinking about the
Speaker earlier today issuing a state-
ment saying that the Senate is consid-
ering cutting all funding—not sup-
porting funding for HBCUs, historically
Black colleges and universities, where
we know that a preponderance of the
African Americans in the mental
health area have been going to school.
I yield to the gentlewoman.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Right. That
would be devastating for our commu-
nity for that to happen. When I think
about my district, which is urban, sub-
urban, and rural—
Ms. PLASKETT. You have rural in
your area as well.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Yes, I do. I
have 1,200 farms. The other thing is, I
have people in those areas who don’t
have cars. There are not buses and
things like that, so again, they don’t
have the transportation or the means
even to get out to go to, let’s say, a
bigger town in my district to go seek
mental health help.
We have to do more to have more
professionals. This is not the time to
cut back. When you think about just
the stresses of living today, we need to
have resources available for our stu-
dents and even our veterans, our farm-
ers, people who we named that are suf-
fering from various things that are
going on right now.
Ms. PLASKETT. The other area is
that those even who receive treatment,
one of the things that we have noted is
that African Americans are negatively
affected by prejudice and discrimina-
tion when they are in the healthcare
system.
Missed diagnoses, inadequate treat-
ment, improper bedside manner, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.066 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8952 November 18, 2019
lack of cultural competence all lead to
an exacerbation of health issues that
cause distrust and prevent many Afri-
can Americans from seeking help in
the healthcare area.
I yield to the gentlewoman.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Right. I think
it is hard enough for us to go, and then,
if we go and don’t feel comfortable or
feel like we are getting the respect or
getting the care, the likelihood of us
returning is not there.
I mean, you would think that with
anybody, of course, that you want to be
treated with a good bedside manner,
with respect. You want to feel that the
person is listening to you, not blowing
you off.
Even when it comes to physical
healthcare, the idea that we can take
more or we don’t need this or don’t
need that, that has been found to be
true in how we have been treated.
The same thing in mental health. We
don’t want that either. We don’t want
to be looked at as the angry Black man
or the angry Black woman as we are
expressing ourselves.
Ms. PLASKETT. I know that there
have been studies, which you were just
discussing, where Black women are his-
torically mistreated by doctors because
they do not believe African American
women when they say that they are
not feeling well or when they are com-
plaining about an ache or a pain, that
a diagnosis on a larger scale is not
done on them once they say that.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. That is why
we have the issue that you know I am
very passionate about: maternal mor-
tality and morbidity.
Interestingly enough, yes, some hap-
pen before the full term, but some hap-
pen when the mom has the baby, and it
also happens after the mom has the
baby. There could be incidents more
than 2 months after the mom has the
baby. There is postpartum depression.
But if we are not taken seriously,
then one thing can lead to another.
Ms. PLASKETT. This cuts across all
economics of African Americans. This
is not just about poor Black women.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Right.
Ms. PLASKETT. This happens at the
highest economic levels of Black
women dying in great numbers after
giving birth to children.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Economic,
educational, you could be in the best
physical health. Black women die at
three to four times the rate of White
women. But depending on which State
you go to, the rates are higher.
In my State of Illinois, it is six to
one times. I just met with someone out
there, and they said it looks like it
might be even a little higher. In New
York, it is eight to one times. In the
State of Washington, it is not Black
women but Native women at eight to
one times the rate of White women.
Yes, it cuts across every socioeconomic
characteristic that you can find.
Ms. PLASKETT. I thank Ms. KELLY
for her leadership and continued sup-
port on this subject.
For those who need a voice here in
Washington, I know she is at the fore-
front, not just on mental health issues
but all health issues, including the fact
that she has considered gun violence a
health issue. She is fighting for addi-
tional funding at NIH in this area.
The totality of the health of the
American people, I think, is so impor-
tant, and I am grateful for Ms. KELLY’s
leadership in that and her continuing
to bring up these topics.
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. I thank the
gentlewoman for her leadership. Any-
thing I can do to help, of course, I am
always here.
Ms. PLASKETT. One of the things,
Mr. Speaker, that we wanted to talk
about was Blacks being overrepre-
sented in prison: 1 million of the total
2.3 million people incarcerated in the
United States. One million of those 2.3
million are, in fact, African American.
That is another area for mental health
that Black Americans face.
A current major national concern:
People of color account for 60 percent
of the prison population. While only 14
percent of Black people are drug users,
we account for 37 percent of drug ar-
rests.
This incarceration could contribute
to mental health issues of Black people
and raises questions surrounding the
delivery of mental health services in
prison.
The reverse is also true. The lack of
access to mental health testing and
treatment may, in fact, lead to incar-
ceration. This reality leads to real
issues in healthcare regarding access,
mental health, and quality care treat-
ment.
Treatment issues that must be ad-
dressed include the fact that the Black
community is overrepresented in inpa-
tient treatment and underrepresented
in outpatient treatment, highlighting
the need for more early education and
intervention.
Regarding misdiagnosis and access to
care, access is a central point of con-
tention when thinking about the care
of Black psychiatric patients. Often,
communities such as my district are
not equipped with adequate facilities
and services. In the Virgin Islands,
there is not just a lack of inpatient
care for mental health but outpatient
as well.
At this point, we have almost no sep-
arate mental health facility. Either in-
dividuals have to be sent off-island or,
unfortunately, many people are sent to
correctional facilities for nonviolent
crimes who are experiencing, in fact, a
mental health issue.
Unfortunately, over a year ago, we
lost a young man who obviously had
very severe mental health issues that
his family had been treating him for.
He had been sent to prison because we
don’t have that mental health facility.
He, in fact, lost his life in the correc-
tional facility, knowing that this poor
young man had mental health services
that he needed and that our island does
not have the resources, the funding, to
be able to provide.
Research has shown that a lack of
cultural competency in mental
healthcare, as I discussed earlier and as
you heard from Congresswoman KELLY,
results in misdiagnosis and inadequate
treatment.
While Black patients may prefer
Black physicians, only about 2 to 4 per-
cent of mental health providers iden-
tify as Black—2 to 4 percent—in this
country, meaning that Black patients
are likely to be seen by a provider from
a different cultural and ethnic back-
ground than their own.
Similarly, in research, there is a pau-
city of Black researchers and Black pa-
tients participating in research, which
is problematic as research is the basis
for evidence-based clinical care.
These are all issues that are affecting
the Black community.
Some may think that we also have
the stigma of what do we as African
Americans think. African Americans
are reluctant to discuss mental health
issues and seek treatment because of
the shame and the stigma associated
with such conditions.
Many African Americans also have
trouble recognizing the signs and
symptoms of mental health conditions,
leading to underestimating the effects
and the impacts of mental health con-
ditions. That affects all of us, at all
levels.
I know, as a parent, as an African
American parent, I have been one indi-
vidual who has done this also, not rec-
ognizing when a son is feeling de-
pressed and just thinking that he needs
to suck it up and go on with his work
and do what he needs to do and think-
ing that, ‘‘You already know that you
are a Black man in America. You don’t
have time to feel sorry for yourself.
You have to push through,’’ and real-
izing that that son was really de-
pressed and needed to get some mental
health treatment.
These are things that are affecting
our community, and we need to be up-
front about what we are facing. Some
may think of depression as the blues or
something that needs to be snapped out
of.
ADHD in a child is often regarded as
a child being bad. Too often, young
Black men are put in suspension or,
even at the age of kindergarten, sepa-
rated from school, taken out of the
classroom because of bad behavior that
a teacher recognized. That same behav-
ior in a White student is not seen that
way.
b 2100
Those signs, that lack of sensitivity
begins at the youngest age in Black
America, and those are the things that
we must be careful about.
Oftentimes, people assume that their
emotional mental state is normal, not
realizing that they are suffering from
disordered thinking or a clinical symp-
tom.
Approximately 30 percent of African
American adults with mental illness
receive treatment each year, compared
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.068 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8953
November 18, 2019
to the U.S. average of 43 percent. Here
are some the reasons why.
Socioeconomic factors play a part,
too, and can make treatment options
less available. In 2017, 11 percent of Af-
rican Americans had no form of health
insurance.
For the Virgin Islands, we have this
issue as well. We have only one full-
time and one part-time psychiatrist for
our islands. Today, the traumas of the
storms that rocked the territory have
become apparent, and, as a result, men-
tal health is being talked about more
frequently.
I am grateful that our Governor,
Governor Bryan, is declaring a mental
health state of emergency for our is-
lands, being clear-eyed and noticing
that this is such an issue that we must
face.
However, access to mental health
treatment is still in dire need of im-
provement. For many years, the lack
of a facility and mental health pro-
viders have led to the Virgin Islands’
government spending millions of dol-
lars to send mental health patients off-
island due to an inability to treat them
within the territory. The cost of send-
ing children off-island for mental
health treatment totals $13 million a
year, a significant amount for a juris-
diction with a small annual budget.
The territory currently has no inpa-
tient facilities. Outpatient facilities
are unsuited to meet the needs of the
Virgin Islands.
A 2019 study conducted by the Carib-
bean Exploratory Research Center
found that 6 out of 10 Virgin Islanders
showed depressive symptoms. The same
study revealed the symptoms of PTSD
in 57 percent of adults. These extraor-
dinary numbers display a mental
health crisis within the Virgin Islands
that does not have the fiscal, occupa-
tional, or infrastructural capacity to
handle.
The lack of mental health profes-
sionals and mental health education
and awareness creates a barrier for
many obtaining care. But I know that
the Virgin Islands is not the only place
that faces this. Places like inner cities
within the United States, Detroit and
elsewhere, also experience these men-
tal health issues.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ac-
knowledge my colleague, one of my
close friends here, a classmate of mine
coming into Congress in the same
class, Congresswoman BRENDA LAW-
RENCE, who has made extraordinary
strides in supporting not just the peo-
ple of her district, but also being one of
the co-chairs of the Women’s Caucus
here in Washington, continually bring-
ing to light the issues that face women.
Just earlier this evening, she had a
dinner, women who had been incarcer-
ated and the mental stress that they
were dealing with being incarcerated.
One woman, I know, Congresswoman,
she discussed having her sentence with
a 6-month old child that she had to
stop breastfeeding because she had to
go to prison, a woman, 2 weeks after
giving birth, having been sent to prison
for being a girlfriend of a drug dealer.
These are the kinds of things that
women in America have been dealing
with.
Mr. Speaker, I am so grateful to Con-
gresswoman LAWRENCE for taking the
lead on supporting women in this coun-
try, for talking about inequities and al-
ways dealing with issues that affect
those Americans who cannot speak
here in these Halls.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Michigan (Mrs. LAW-
RENCE) to discuss these issues with us.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
want to thank the gentlewoman from
the Virgin Islands for her leadership. It
is imperative that we use our platform
as Members of Congress to highlight
the crisis of mental illness.
So often when we talk about gun vio-
lence, it leaves the crisis of gun vio-
lence and goes to mental illness; but
we have not, as America, taken the
steps we need to take.
Black and African American commu-
nities, we are seeing 13.2 percent of the
U.S. population who are identified as
Black or African American; of those, 16
percent has a diagnosed mental illness
in the past year.
I had a friend of mine, she is a thera-
pist, and we had a roundtable in the
community that I hosted on mental ill-
ness. The T-shirt she wears, says: ‘‘I’m
an African American. I go to church. I
believe in God. And I see my thera-
pist.’’
So often in our community you hear
the words, ‘‘just pray about it and God
will fix it.’’ But you don’t say that to
someone who has heart disease. Yes, we
pray and, yes, we believe in God, but
we also must get the healthcare we
need. Mental health is an issue that we
are facing.
And when we talk about women, we
just had this amazing, informative din-
ner tonight, and the stress, the abuse,
the separation, and they were giving us
examples: at 3 in the morning, hearing
the weeping and crying of women who
have not seen their children, would
just love to put their arms around
them, those who are in prison and have
no clue why they are in there, and to
have the guards tell them that they
have to perform sexual acts if they
want to see their children, and if they
fail to do it, they deny them access.
When these women come out of pris-
on, they are broken and they are
wounded. And the major issue that we
need to confront, when you talk about
women surviving and their mental
health, the number one criteria for a
woman to be reunited with her children
is housing.
If a woman has been imprisoned, she
has no income. She comes out home-
less. She is living in a shelter, and she
cannot provide the housing, and so she
is still not joined together with her
child. And she is confronting her chil-
dren, being a free woman, who are cry-
ing, saying: Mommy, when are we
going to go home together again?
And another issue, think about in
Washington, D.C., a two-bedroom
apartment, and the law requires that,
if you have a boy and a girl, you have
to have at least a three-bedroom apart-
ment. Can you imagine the costs? And
how can a woman afford that?
We have so many historical issues
that have impacted the socioeconomic
resources, the economic resources, that
there are disparities by African Ameri-
cans today. The socioeconomic status,
in turn, is linked to mental health.
People who are in prison, people who
are homeless, incarcerated, or have
substance abuse problems are at a
higher risk for poor mental health. And
putting people who are mentally ill in
prison has become the norm in Amer-
ica.
Instead of us stepping up and using
our ability to provide mental health,
we incarcerate. And we see the victims
of people with mental illness killing
people through gun violence, and all we
do is have a moment of silence, and we
talk about, well, we knew something
was wrong with them.
We heard a parent on the TV, because
we just had another shooting, and he
was saying: I tried to get help and no
one would help me. I knew my son was
mentally ill. I cried out.
We must change this in America.
I thank the gentlewoman so much for
giving us an opportunity to bring this
voice and, hopefully, shake America
awake to this issue. We have so much
work to do. We need to see our physical
doctor, and we need mental health, as
well, in America.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
would like to also acknowledge the
work that another Member of Con-
gress, MAX ROSE, does in mental health
related to veterans. We know so many
of those veterans are, in fact, African
American, coming back home after
having served this country, facing al-
ready racial disparities, facing issues
of race in America, as well as the trau-
ma of what they have been through in
serving us.
We are grateful for that support to
those veterans so that they can sustain
themselves, get back to being produc-
tive in this country. I want to thank
the gentleman for that work that he
has done.
But I just want to close with letting
people know about some statistics and
then giving them a charge.
According to the American Psy-
chiatric Association, African Ameri-
cans are less likely to receive guide-
line-consistent care, less frequently in-
cluded in research, and more likely to
use emergency rooms or primary care
rather than mental health specialists.
Only one in three African Americans
who need mental healthcare receive it.
Plaguing issues of poverty, mass in-
carceration, and financial hardship
have increased mental illness and sui-
cide in the African American commu-
nity.
I just want to give people a charge:
Start the conversation about mental
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:22 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.070 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8954 November 18, 2019
health with your peers. Show compas-
sion. Do not be judgmental. Your lan-
guage matters.
Advocate, if not for yourself, for your
family, for your community. Write
down all the things that make you
upset, for example, media, police bru-
tality, poor perception/narrative of Af-
rican Americans. Write it down and
embrace your voice.
In the Black community, more peo-
ple promoting solidarity are talking
about their struggles publicly, but we
need more people to share their experi-
ences. We are at our best when human
connection and connectivity happen.
Share your story.
I thank the men and women who,
across the Nation, are fighting to end
the stigma, do the research, and make
mental health treatment more acces-
sible in the Black community, includ-
ing our own, in the Virgin Islands, Dr.
Janis Valmond, deputy commissioner
for health promotion and disease pre-
vention, who has provided a lot of the
information I had tonight.
The Congressional Black Caucus uses
this Special Order hour to let America
know what is happening in our commu-
nity.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my Colleague Congresswoman PLASKETT for
anchoring tonight’s Congressional Black Cau-
cus Special Order on Mental Health.
Mental health includes our emotional, psy-
chological, and social wellbeing. It affects how
we think, feel, and act.
It also helps determine how we handle
stress, relate to others, and make choices.
Those experiencing mental health problems
can have difficulty thinking, experience mood
swings or inappropriate emotional reactions to
everyday events, and behavior or engagement
with others could be affected.
Many factors contribute to mental health
problems, including: biological factors can in-
clude individual brain chemistry; traumatic life
experiences, such as the sudden death of a
loved one, involvement in a major accident,
traumatic experiences during times of war or
as a consequence of serious illness; family
history of mental health problems.
People can experience different types of
mental health disorders, such as: Uncontrolled
anxiety, behavioral, eating disorders (anorexia,
and bulimia are two frequently cited prob-
lems); substance abuse; mood problems such
as overwhelming feelings of sadness, person-
ality changes; psychotic behavior, and suicidal
thoughts.
African American adults are 20 percent
more likely to experience mental health issues
than the rest of the population.
25 percent of African Americans seek treat-
ment for a mental health issue, compared to
40 percent of white individuals.
The reasons for this drop off include mis-
diagnosis by doctors, socioeconomic factors
and a lack of African American mental health
professionals.
Adult African Americans living below poverty
are three times more likely to report severe
psychological distress than those living above
poverty.
African Americans are less likely than white
people to die from suicide as teenagers, Afri-
can American teenagers are more likely to at-
tempt suicide than are white teenagers (8.3
percent v. 6.2 percent).
The number of professionals that provide
mental health care:
Only 6.2 percent of psychologists,
5.6 percent of advanced-practice psychiatric
nurses,
12.6 percent of social workers, and 21.3
percent of psychiatrists are members of minor-
ity groups.
According to the National Association on
Mental Illness (NAMI), only 3.7 percent of
members in the American Psychiatric Associa-
tion and 1.5 percent of members in the Amer-
ican Psychological Association are Black.
African Americans of all ages are more like-
ly to witness or be victims of serious violent
crimes.
Exposure to violence increases the risk of
developing a mental health condition such as
post-traumatic stress disorder, depression,
and anxiety.
African American children are more likely
than other children to be exposed to violence,
which can have a profound, long-term effect
on their mental health.
Some African Americans even see mental
illness as a punishment from God.
Up to 85 percent of African Americans de-
scribe themselves as ‘‘fairly religious’’ or ‘‘reli-
gious,’’ and they commonly use prayer to han-
dle stress, according to one study cited by the
American Psychiatric Association.
Nationally, suicide is the 10th leading cause
of death among all Americans—over 47,000
people died by suicide in 2017.
On average, there are 129 suicides per day.
In 2017 there were an estimated 1.4 million
suicide attempts.
From 1999 through 2015, 1,309 children
ages 5 to 12 died of suicide in the U.S.
Suicide is the third leading cause of death
among Black youth (Suicide is the second
leading cause of death among all youth just
behind accidental deaths).
A report published in the JAMA Pediatrics,
found that the rate of suicide for Black children
ages 5 to 12 died by suicide exceeded that of
White children.
A study in the Journal of Community Health
showed that suicide rates among black girls
ages 13 to 19 nearly doubled from 2001 to
2017. For black boys in the same age group,
over the same period, rates rose 60 percent.
Black youth are about half as likely as their
White counterparts to get mental health care.
Trauma and Suicide: Among urban males,
PTSD is associated with increased suicide at-
tempts.
African Americans living below poverty are
three times more likely to report serious psy-
chological distress than those living above
poverty.
While African Americans are less likely than
white people to die from suicide as teenagers,
African American teenagers are more likely to
attempt suicide than are white teenagers (8.3
percent v. 6.2 percent).
Less than 2 percent of American Psycho-
logical Association members are Black/African
American, some may worry that mental health
care practitioners are not culturally competent
enough to treat their specific issues.
African Americans are 10 percent more like-
ly to experience serious psychological distress
than their white counterparts.
70 percent of youth in State and local juve-
nile justice systems have a mental illness
(While just 14 percent of all youth under 18 in
the U.S. are Black, 43 percent of boys and 34
percent of girls in juvenile facilities are Black.).
Incarcerated youth die by suicide at a rate
2 to 3 times higher than that of youth in the
general population.
The LGBTQ+ community is 4 times more
likely to die by suicide than their straight
peers.
The 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey found
40 percent of respondents had attempted sui-
cide in their lifetime—nearly nine times the at-
tempted suicide rate in the United States pop-
ulation at large.
The Trevor Project estimates that more than
1.8 million lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender,
and queer youth seriously consider suicide
each year.
The frequency and intensity of bullying that
young people face are astounding:
1 in 7 students in Grades K–12 is either a
bully or a victim of bullying.
90 percent of 4th to 8th grade students re-
port being victims of bullying of some type.
56 percent of students have personally wit-
nessed some type of bullying at school.
71 percent of students report incidents of
bullying as a problem at their school.
15 percent of all students who don’t show
up for school report it to being out of fear of
being bullied while at school.
1 out of 20 students has seen a student
with a gun at school.
282,000 students are physically attacked in
secondary schools each month.
15 percent of all school absenteeism is di-
rectly related to fears of being bullied at
school.
According to bullying statistics, 1 out of
every 10 students who drops out of school
does so because of repeated bullying.
Suicides linked to bullying are the saddest
statistic.
David Ray Ritcheson was a victim of ado-
lescent bullying. He was bullied, beaten and
tortured nearly to death because of his race.
He spent 3 months in a hospital as a result of
his injuries and underwent more than 30 sur-
geries to repair his battered body.
His courage in the face of such violence
was reflected in his willingness to come before
Congress to tell his story. His courage inspired
members of Congress to pass the Matthew
Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes
Prevention Act which became law. [Public Law
No: 111–084].
Negative attitudes about mental illness often
underlie stigma, which can cause those suf-
fering from mental illness or their families not
to seek help or deny clear symptoms of men-
tal illness.
The stigma of mental illness may cause the
mentally ill to delay treatment, experience job
discrimination, lead to the loss of employment,
loss of housing, or cost personal relationships,
and undermine successful recovery of those
with mental illness or substance abuse.
To overcome stigma, we need to avoid
using generic labels such as ‘‘retarded’’ or
‘‘the mentally ill’’ and terms like crazy, lunatic,
or slow functioning.
According to the Behavioral Risk Factor
Surveillance System, most adults (88.6 per-
cent) agreed with a statement that people are
generally caring and sympathetic to persons
with mental illness.
Adults with mental health symptoms (77.6
percent) agreed that treatment can help them
lead normal lives.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K18NO7.071 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8955
November 18, 2019
However, only 24.6 percent of those sur-
veyed who had mental health disorders be-
lieve that people are caring and sympathetic
to persons with mental illness.
Psychiatrists advise that emphasizing abili-
ties and not limitations, when talking about
someone who has a mental illness is impor-
tant for the self-esteem of the mentally ill.
Everyone has strengths that are not related
to a mental illness, and these should be the
focus of those seeking help for the mentally ill
in their lives.
We have to change cultural and socially ac-
ceptable language and behavior toward the
mentally ill—mental illness is nothing to laugh
at or make light of.
Mental health care disparities exist due to:
1. Reluctance and Inability to Access Mental
Health Services impacts the care of African
Americans.
Approximately 30 percent of African Amer-
ican adults with mental illness receive treat-
ment each year, compared to the U.S. aver-
age of 43 percent. Here are some reasons
why.
2. Distrust and misdiagnosis
Historically, African Americans have been
and continue to be negatively affected by prej-
udice and discrimination in the health care
system.
Misdiagnoses, inadequate treatment and
lack of cultural competence by health profes-
sionals cause distrust and prevent many Afri-
can Americans from seeking or staying in
treatment.
Socio-economic factors play a part too and
can make treatment options less available. In
2017, 11 percent of African Americans had no
form of health insurance.
3. Provider Bias and Inequality of Care
Conscious or unconscious bias from pro-
viders and lack of cultural competence result
in misdiagnosis and poorer quality of care for
African Americans.
African Americans, especially women, are
more likely to experience and mention phys-
ical symptoms related to mental health prob-
lems.
For example, they may describe bodily
aches and pains when talking about depres-
sion.
A health care provider who is not culturally
competent might not recognize these as
symptoms of a mental health condition.
Additionally, men are more likely to receive
a misdiagnosis of schizophrenia when ex-
pressing symptoms related to mood disorders
or PTSD.
Members of minority communities often ex-
perience bias and mistrust in health care set-
tings.
This often leads to delays in seeking care.
Those seeking mental health services, must
be informed on how to best determine the
best person to provide them with care.
Key factors should include whether the
mental healthcare providers have:
Cultural Competence in Service Delivery
Culture—a person’s beliefs, norms, values
and language—plays a key role in every as-
pect of our lives, including our mental health.
Cultural competence is a doctor’s ability to
recognize and understand the role culture
(yours and the doctor’s) plays in treatment and
to adapt to this reality to meet your needs.
Cultural competence is important because
cultural competence in mental health care re-
sults in misdiagnosis and inadequate treat-
ment.
African Americans and other multicultural
communities tend to receive poorer quality of
care.
To improve the chances of getting culturally
sensitive care patients should go directly to a
mental health professional because this is
their area of expertise, if they do not feel com-
fortable right away, a primary care doctor is a
great place to start.
The primary care doctor might be able to
start the assessment to determine if a patient
has a mental health condition or help refer
them to a mental health professional.
When meeting with a provider, ask ques-
tions to get a sense of their level of cultural
sensitivity.
No person seeking help should feel bad
about asking questions.
Health care providers expect and welcome
questions from their patients since this helps
them better understand the patient and what is
important to them.
Some of the essential questions that should
be asked are:
Have you treated other African Americans?
Have you received training in cultural com-
petence or on African American mental
health?
How do you see our cultural backgrounds
influencing our communication and my treat-
ment?
How do you plan to integrate my beliefs and
practices in my treatment?
The answers to these questions should in-
form the patient seeking medical care.
Its is also important for the patient to know
the clues that indicate that the medical profes-
sional may be biased in how they commu-
nicate with the patient regarding their medical
condition.
There have been tremendous advance-
ments in medical care that include therapies
and medications that allow persons with seri-
ous mental health conditions to lead produc-
tive and full lives.
The Affordable Care Act takes a positive
step forward to address the issue of mental ill-
ness and access by making it a requirement
that all healthcare plans contain care for men-
tal illness and substance abuse.
Because of the health care law, for the first
time insurance companies in the individual
and small group market are required to cover
mental health and substance abuse disorder
services as one of ten categories of essential
health benefits.
Additionally, health insurance providers
must cover mental health and substance
abuse services at parity with medical and sur-
gical benefits (which means things like out-of-
pocket costs for behavioral health services
must generally be comparable to coverage for
medical and surgical care).
The Affordable Care Act expands mental
health and substance abuse disorder benefits
and the parity created by the law protections
approximately 60 million Americans by assur-
ing coverage.
The Affordable Care Act is one of the larg-
est expansions of mental health and sub-
stance abuse disorder coverage in a genera-
tion.
As part of the White House roll out of the
Affordable Care Act a $100 million commit-
ment to improve access to mental health serv-
ices was announced.
The Affordable Care Act is providing $50
million to assist community centers provide
more mental health services. The Department
of Agriculture will provide an additional $50
million to finance rural mental health facilities.
The health care law requires most health
plans to cover recommended preventive serv-
ices like depression screenings for adults and
behavioral assessments for children at no cost
to consumers.
In the State of Texas it is expect that
5,189,000 people will have access to mental
health and substance abuse assistance pro-
grams.
Post-traumatic stress disorder is a psy-
chiatric disorder that can occur following the
experience or witnessing of a life threatening
event, such as military combat, natural disas-
ters, terrorist incidents, serious accidents, or
physical or sexual assault in adult or child-
hood.
PTSD, one of the most prevalent and dev-
astating psychological wounds suffered by the
brave men and women fighting in far off lands
to defend the values and freedom we hold
dear.
A suicide bomber, an IED, or an insurgent
can obliterate their close friend instanta-
neously and right in front of their face. Yet, as
American soldiers, they are trained to sup-
press the agonizing grief associated with
those horrible experiences and are expected
to continue on with the mission. And carry on
they do, with courage and with patriotism.
PTSD can cause problems like: Flashback
or feeling like the event is happening again;
Trouble sleeping or nightmares; Feeling alone;
Angry outbursts; and Feeling worried, guilty, or
sad.
The fact of the matter is that most veterans
with PTSD also have other psychiatric dis-
orders, which are a consequence of PTSD.
About 30 percent of the men and women
who have spent time in war zones experience
PTSD.
More than half of all male Vietnam veterans
and almost half of all female Vietnam veterans
have experienced clinically serious stress re-
action symptoms.
PTSD has also been detected among vet-
erans of other wars.
Estimates of PTSD from the Gulf War are
as high as 10 percent.
Estimates from the war in Afghanistan are
between 6 and 11 percent.
Current Estimates of PTSD in military per-
sonnel who served in Iraq range from 12 per-
cent to 20 percent.
We need to ensure that no soldier is left be-
hind by addressing the urgent need for more
outreach toward hard to reach veterans suf-
fering from PTSD, especially those who are
homeless or reside in underserved urban and
rural areas of our county.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. HORSFORD (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for today.
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 2099. An act to redesignate the Sullys
Hill National Game Preserve in the State of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.033 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8956 November 18, 2019
North Dakota as the White Horse Hill Na-
tional Game Preserve; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
f
BILLS PRESENTED TO THE
PRESIDENT
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported that on November 18,
2019, she presented to the President of
the United States, for his approval, the
following bills:
H.R. 2423. To require the Secretary of the
Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of
ratification of the 19th Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, giving
women in the United States the right to
vote.
H.R. 1123. To amend title 28, United States
Code, to modify the composition of the east-
ern judicial district of Arkansas, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 724. To revise section 48 of title 18,
United States Code, and for other purposes.
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 9 o’clock and 11 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, November 19, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
h
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 4344, the Investor Protection and Capital Markets Fairness Act, as
amended, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 4344
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2020–
2024
2020–
2029
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ............................................................................................................................................................................ 16 7 ¥7 ¥17 ¥58 ¥78 ¥78 ¥58 ¥28 ¥18 ¥59 ¥317
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 4634, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of
2019, as amended, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 4634
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2020–
2024
2020–
2029
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact .......................................................................................................................... 0 160 120 ¥120 ¥490 390 250 20 ¥570 ¥1,010 ¥330 ¥1,250
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2976. A letter from the Administrator, Spe-
cialty Crops Program, Agricultural Mar-
keting Service, Department of Agriculture,
transmitting the Department’s interim final
rule — Establishment of a Domestic Hemp
Production Program [Doc. No.: AMS-SC-19-
0042; SC19-990-2 IR] received November 7,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Agriculture.
2977. A letter from the Director, Issuances
Staff, Office of Policy and Program Develop-
ment, Food Safety and Inspection Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting the
Department’s final rule — Eligibility of the
People’s Republic of China (PRC) To Export
to the United States Poultry Products From
Birds Slaughtered in the PRC [Docket No.:
FSIS-2016-0002] (RIN: 0583-AD64) received No-
vember 12, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Agriculture.
2978. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, Privacy Act of 1974 [Docket
ID: DOD-2019-OS-0041] (RIN: 0790-AK60) re-
ceived November 12, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
2979. A letter from the Senior Counsel,
Legal Division, Bureau of Consumer Finan-
cial Protection, transmitting the Bureau’s
final rule — Home Mortgage Disclosure (Reg-
ulation C) [Docket No.: CFPB-2019-0021]
(RIN: 3170-AA76) received November 7, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
2980. A letter from the Director, Office of
Standards, Regulations, and Variances, De-
partment of Labor, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s technical amendments — Examina-
tions of Working Places in Metal and
Nonmetal Mines [Docket No.: MSHA-2014-
0030] (RIN: 1219-AB92) received November 7,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
2981. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s withdrawal of direct final rule — Air
Plan Approval; California; South Coast Air
Quality Management District; Stationary
Source Permits [EPA-R09-OAR-2019-0272;
FRL-10002-12-Region 9] November 8, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
2982. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Massa-
chusetts; Transport Element for the 2010 Sul-
fur Dioxide National Ambient Air Quality
Standard [EPA-R01-OAR-2019-0353; FRL-
10001-80-Region 1] received November 8, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
2983. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Office of the
General Counsel, Consumer Product Safety
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
direct final rule — Revisions to Safety
Standard for Toddler Beds [Docket No.:
CPSC-2017-0012] received November 12, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
2984. A letter from the Division Chief, Reg-
ulatory Affairs, Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, Department of the Interior, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Minerals
Management: Adjustment of Cost Recovery
Fees [18X.LLWO310000.L13100000.PP0000]
(RIN: 1004-AE70) received November 6, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
2985. A letter from the Chief Financial Offi-
cer, NESDIS, National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration, transmitting the Ad-
ministration’s correcting amendment —
Schedule of Fees for Access to NOAA Envi-
ronmental Data, Information, and Related
Products and Services; Correction [Docket
No: 181108999-9149-02] (RIN: 0648-BI60) re-
ceived November 12, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2986. A letter from the Assistant Adminis-
trator for Regulatory Programs, NMFS, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s final rule —
Magnuson-Stevens Act Provisions; Fisheries
Off West Coast States; Pacific Coast Ground-
fish Fishery; Groundfish Bottom Trawl and
Midwater Trawl Gear in the Trawl Rational-
ization Program; Correction [Docket No.:
180207141-8999-03] (RIN: 0648-BH74) received
November 12, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2987. A letter from the Acting Deputy Di-
rector, Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s temporary rule — Fisheries of the
Exclusive Economic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific
Cod in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands
Management Area [Docket No.: 180713633-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.030 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8957
November 18, 2019
9174-02] (RIN: 0648-XY007) received November
14, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
2988. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Atka Mackerel in the Bering Sea
and Aleutian Islands Management Area
[Docket No.: 180713633-9174-02] (RIN: 0648-
XY010) received November 14, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
2989. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by
Catcher Vessels Equal to or Greater Than 60
Feet (18.3 Meters) Length Overall Using
Hook-and-Line Gear in the Bering Sea and
Aleutian Islands Management Area [Docket
No.: 1807136333-9174-02] (RIN: 0648-XY020) re-
ceived November 14, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2990. A letter from the Acting Deputy Di-
rector, Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s temporary rule — Fisheries of the
Exclusive Economic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific
Cod by Catcher Vessels Using Hook-and-Line
Gear in the Western Regulatory Area of the
Gulf of Alaska [Docket No.: 180831813-9170-02]
(RIN: 0648-XY014) received November 14, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
2991. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Caribbean,
Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic; 2019
Commercial Accountability Measure and
Closure for South Atlantic Red Snapper
[Docket No.: 121004515-3608-02] (RIN: 0648-
XS009) received November 14, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
2992. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Reef Fish Fishery of the Gulf of Mexico;
2019 Commercial Accountability Measures;
Annual Catch Limit & Annual Catch Target
Reductions [Docket No.: 121004518-3398-01]
(RIN: 0648-XG974) received November 14, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
2993. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Exchange of Flatfish
in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Man-
agement Area [Docket No.: 180713663-9174-02]
(RIN: 0648-XG086) received November 14, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
2994. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — Fisheries Off West Coast States;
Coastal Pelagic Species Fisheries; Multi-
Year Harvest Specifications for the Central
Subpopulation of Northern Anchovy [Docket
No.: 190215127-9460-02] (RIN: 0648-BI73) re-
ceived November 12, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2995. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Office of Sus-
tainable Fisheries, National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration, transmitting the
Administration’s interim final rule — Mag-
nuson-Stevens Act Provisions; Fisheries Off
West Coast States; Pacific Coast Groundfish
Fishery; Trawl Logbook [Docket No.:
190214113-9522-01] (RIN: 0648-BI74) received
November 12, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2996. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Northeast Skate Complex; Frame-
work Adjustment 5 and 2018-2019 Specifica-
tions [Docket No.: 180130101-8824-02] (RIN:
0648-BH57) received November 12, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
2997. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Office
of Sustainable Fisheries, National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, transmit-
ting the Administration’s temporary rule —
Coastal Migratory Pelagic Resources of the
Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Region; Com-
mercial Trip Limit Reduction for King
Mackerel in the Atlantic Southern Zone
[Docket No.: 160426363-7275-02] (RIN: 0648-
XS010) received November 14, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
2998. A letter from the Acting Deputy As-
sistant Administrator for Regulatory Pro-
grams, NMFS, Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration, transmitting the Administra-
tion’s final rule — Fisheries of the Carib-
bean, Gulf of Mexico, and South Atlantic;
Spiny Lobster Fishery of the Gulf of Mexico
and South Atlantic; Amendment 13; Correc-
tion [Docket No.: 190725-0004] (RIN: 0648-BI11)
received November 14, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2999. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NMFS, Pacific Islands Regional Office, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — International Fisheries; Western and
Central Pacific Fisheries for Highly Migra-
tory Species; Fishing Limits in Purse Seine
and Longline Fisheries, Restrictions on the
Use of Fish Aggregating Devices in Purse
Seine Fisheries, and Transshipment Prohibi-
tions [Docket No.: 180209155-8589-02] (RIN:
0648-BH77) received November 12, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
3000. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No:. 31278
Amdt. No.: 3875] received November 7, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
3001. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No.: 31279;
Amdt. No.: 3876] received November 7, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
3002. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; BRP-Rotax GmbH & Co KG Engines
[Docket No.: FAA-2019-0747; Product Identi-
fier 2019-NE-26-AD; Amendment 39-19778; AD
2019-21-12] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Novem-
ber 7, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
3003. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Walden, CO [Docket No.: FAA-2019-
0372; Airspace Docket No.: 18-ANM-17] (RIN:
2120-AA66) received November 7, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
3004. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Wray, CO [Docket No.: FAA-2019-
0371; Airspace Docket No.: 17-ANM-6] (RIN:
2120-AA66) received November 7, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
3005. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Textron Aviation Inc. (Type Certifi-
cate Previously Held by Beechcraft Corpora-
tion) Airplanes [Docket No.: FAA-2019-0853;
Product Identifier 2019-CE-036-AD; Amend-
ment 39-19774; AD 2019-21-08] (RIN: 2120-AA64)
received November 7, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia: Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor. H.R. 1309. A bill to direct
the Secretary of Labor to issue an occupa-
tional safety and health standard that re-
quires covered employers within the health
care and social service industries to develop
and implement a comprehensive workplace
violence prevention plan, and for other pur-
poses; with an amendment (Rept. 116–296, Pt.
1). Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the State of the Union.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Committee on Rules. H.
Res. 708. A resolution providing for consider-
ation of the Senate amendment to the bill
(H.R. 3055) making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes (Rept. 116–297). Referred to the
House Calendar.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Committees on Energy and Commerce and
Ways and Means discharged from further
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18NO7.000 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8958 November 18, 2019
consideration. H.R. 1309 referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr.
COLLINS of Georgia, Mr. NADLER, and
Mr. SENSENBRENNER):
H.R. 5133. A bill to amend the Federal
Trade Commission Act to prohibit anti-
competitive behaviors by drug product man-
ufacturers, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 5134. A bill to amend title 39, United
States Code, to provide that care packages
mailed to a member of the Armed Forces by
any family member shall be carried at no
cost to the family member, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 5135. A bill to give priority in alloca-
tion of rental assistance vouchers under the
Veterans Affairs Supported Housing program
of the Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment to areas having the largest popu-
lations of homeless veterans, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Mr. MARSHALL (for himself and
Ms. STEVENS):
H.R. 5136. A bill to secure the technological
edge of the United States in civil and mili-
tary aviation, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology.
By Mr. PENCE (for himself and Mr.
MEADOWS):
H.R. 5137. A bill to amend title 40, United
States Code, to modify the treatment of cer-
tain bargain-price options to purchase at less
than fair market value, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for
herself and Ms. STEFANIK):
H.R. 5138. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Health and Human Services to award
grants to States to provide safety measures
to social workers, health workers, and
human services professionals performing
services placing such individuals in high-risk
and potentially dangerous situations, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself, Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Ms. TITUS, Mr. SIRES, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. LYNCH,
and Mrs. FLETCHER):
H.R. 5139. A bill to protect transportation
personnel and passengers from sexual assault
and harassment, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, and in addition to the Committee
on the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 5140. A bill to amend title 17, United
States Code, to narrow the category of
households eligible to receive signals under a
distant-signal satellite license, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Mr.
BUCHANAN, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. TONKO,
and Mr. CALVERT):
H.R. 5141. A bill to substantially restrict
the use of animal testing for cosmetics; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 5142. A bill to amend the Energy Pol-
icy Act of 2005 to update the Federal pur-
chase requirement to ensure the use of 100
percent renewable energy by 2050; and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. DEFAZIO, and Ms. KAP-
TUR):
H.R. 5143. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to require corpora-
tions to disclose to their shareholders the
amounts disbursed for certain political ac-
tivity, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and in addition
to the Committee on House Administration,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas:
H.R. 5144. A bill to amend the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act to require
group health plans and health insurance cov-
erage to have in place a process to self-audit
information listed in publicly accessible pro-
vider directories of such plans and coverage;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committees on Edu-
cation and Labor, and Ways and Means, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 5145. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration to establish an advisory
board focused on creating opportunities for
women in the trucking industry, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. HAGEDORN (for himself and
Mr. EVANS):
H.R. 5146. A bill to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to require contracting officers to
take a small business concern’s past per-
formance as part of a joint venture into ac-
count when evaluating the small business
concern, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Small Business.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota (for
himself, Mr. MURPHY of North Caro-
lina, and Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee):
H.R. 5147. A bill to amend the National
Labor Relations Act to repeal exclusive rep-
resentation, to remove any requirement that
individual employees join or pay dues or fees
to labor organizations, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. LEVIN of California (for him-
self, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, and
Mr. CISNEROS):
H.R. 5148. A bill to improve program integ-
rity through State evaluation of institutions
of higher education, requirements for stu-
dent complaint submissions, and the estab-
lishment of policies and procedures to ad-
dress closure of institutions of higher edu-
cation, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Mr.
BACON, Mr. HASTINGS, and Mr. FOR-
TENBERRY):
H.R. 5149. A bill to prohibit actions to sus-
pend, terminate, or withdraw the United
States from the Open Skies Treaty; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 5150. A bill to amend the Ethics in
Government Act of 1978, the Rules of the
House of Representatives, the Lobbying Dis-
closure Act of 1995, the Legislative Reorga-
nization Act of 1946, the Duncan Hunter Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2009, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938,
the Financial Stability Act of 2010, and the
Federal Funding Accountability and Trans-
parency Act of 2006 to improve access to in-
formation in the legislative and executive
branches of the Government, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, and in addition to the Committees
on Rules, House Administration, the Judici-
ary, Ethics, Financial Services, and the
Budget, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 5151. A bill to establish a military
family immigration advisory committee, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary, and in addition to the Committees
on Veterans’ Affairs, and Armed Services, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ (for herself and
Mr. ESPAILLAT):
H.R. 5152. A bill to establish a grant pro-
gram under which the Secretary of Transpor-
tation will reimburse public transportation
agencies that offer free unlimited transpor-
tation passes to eligible individuals; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Ms.
HAALAND, and Mr. COLE):
H.R. 5153. A bill to assist Tribal govern-
ments in the management of buffalo and buf-
falo habitat and for the reestablishment of
buffalo on Indian lands; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Ms. GABBARD (for herself and Mr.
HURD of Texas):
H. Res. 709. A resolution supporting the
designation of ‘‘GivingTuesday’’ and strong
incentives for all people of the United States
to volunteer and give generously; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. NORTON:
H. Res. 710. A resolution calling on Con-
gress to condemn voter suppression laws en-
acted by States and political subdivisions; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, the
following statements are submitted regard-
ing the specific powers granted to Congress
in the Constitution to enact the accom-
panying bill or joint resolution.
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 5133.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 5134.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.012 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8959
November 18, 2019
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. BARRAGÁN:
H.R. 5135.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. MARSHALL:
H.R. 5136.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. PENCE:
H.R. 5137.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution which grants Congress
the authority to make all Laws which shall
be necessary and proper for carrying into
Execution the foregoing Powers, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in
the Government of the United States, or in
any Department or Officer thereof.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 5138.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 5139.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, Clause 3, and
Clause 18 of the Constitution.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 5140.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the power to pass this bill
pursuant to the Intellectual Property
Clause, Art. I, sec. 8, cl. 8, and the Commerce
Clause, Art. I, sec. 8, cl. 3.
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 5141.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution—To regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian Tribes
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 5142.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 5143.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 4: ‘‘The times, places and
manner of holding elections for Senators and
Representatives, shall be prescribed in each
state by the legislature thereof; but the Con-
gress may at any time by law make or alter
such regulations, except as to the places of
choosing Senators.’’
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3: gives Con-
gress the power ‘‘to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes.’’
Amendment XVI: The Congress shall have
power to lay and collect taxes on incomes,
from whatever source derived, without ap-
portionment among the several States, and
without regard to any census or enumera-
tion.
By Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas:
H.R. 5144.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 5145.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
‘‘to regulate Commerce . . . among the
several States, and with the Indian tribes
. . .’’
By Mr. HAGEDORN:
H.R. 5146.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power [. . .] To
regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,
and among the several states, and with the
Indian Tribes.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 5147.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. LEVIN of California:
H.R. 5148.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 5149.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 5150.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 5151.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 5152.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power to . . . pro-
vide for the . . . general Welfare of the
United States; . . .
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 5153.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 20: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 45: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 127: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 129: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 141: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 151: Mr. SMITH of Missouri.
H.R. 229: Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 333: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 445: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 479: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 587: Ms. PORTER, Mr. WRIGHT, and Ms.
SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 649: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 707: Mrs. BEATTY and Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi.
H.R. 784: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 838: Mr. COX of California and Mr.
UPTON.
H.R. 912: Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. HORSFORD, Miss
RICE of New York, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Mr. SABLAN, Ms. SHALALA, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mr. MORELLE, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, and Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 927: Mr. PETERS and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 935: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. GOLD-
EN, and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 945: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 961: Mr. RUIZ, Mr. CASTRO of Texas,
and Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 1042: Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, and
Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 1109: Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr. CASTRO
of Texas, Mr. CORREA, and Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 1151: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1171: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 1241: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 1289: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 1309: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 1379: Ms. DELAURO and Mr. BERGMAN.
H.R. 1380: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 1407: Mr. AMODEI.
H.R. 1418: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1425: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 1607: Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 1695: Ms. FINKENAUER and Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 1700: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 1713: Ms. Sánchez.
H.R. 1754: Mrs. MILLER, Ms. DEGETTE, and
Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 1763: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts and
Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1766: Ms. DELBENE and Mr. DIAZ-
BALART.
H.R. 1779: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 1794: Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 1816: Ms. DELAURO and Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 1869: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
HICE of Georgia, Mr. COOK, Mr. PENCE, Mr.
ARMSTRONG, and Mr. CARTER of Texas.
H.R. 1872: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 1873: Mr. MEUSER, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. AGUILAR, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Mr. KILMER, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Mr. SARBANES, Mr.
DELGADO, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
Cárdenas, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. TITUS, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. LAMB, Mr. PASCRELL,
Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. MATSUI, Mrs. MCBATH, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. PORTER, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms.
DEAN, Ms. FUDGE, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. HARDER
of California, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
SHERMAN, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. GREEN
of Texas, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
ENGEL, Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
Mrs. AXNE, Mr. RUSH, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms.
SCHRIER, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms.
WILD, Mr. EVANS, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. COHEN, and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1882: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 1908: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 1911: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 1923: Mr. AGUILAR and Mr. KIM.
H.R. 1996: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 1998: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 2062: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2069: Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 2086: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 2089: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 2130: Mrs. MURPHY of Florida.
H.R. 2137: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 2146: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 2148: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 2158: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 2168: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2191: Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 2195: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 2210: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 2213: Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr. MORELLE,
Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of
Illinois, and Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.014 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8960 November 18, 2019
H.R. 2293: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 2311: Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 2319: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana.
H.R. 2382: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 2416: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2434: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 2435: Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 2438: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 2457: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 2478: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 2491: Ms. ADAMS.
H.R. 2517: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 2573: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 2629: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2645: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2651: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 2681: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2683: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 2693: Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. MEUSER, and
Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 2732: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2733: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 2775: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 2818: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 2836: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 2846: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 2848: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 2854: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 2873: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 2881: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 2895: Mr. TIPTON, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio,
and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2961: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 3036: Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, and Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 3068: Mr. LYNCH and Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 3073: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 3080: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H.R. 3103: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 3107: Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. SMITH of Ne-
braska, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. TRONE, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, and Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 3121: Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 3197: Mr. Luján.
H.R. 3208: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 3219: Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 3274: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 3328: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 3373: Mr. POCAN and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 3414: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 3441: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 3463: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 3495: Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. MURPHY of
North Carolina, Mr. LAMALFA, and Mr. JOHN-
SON of Louisiana.
H.R. 3497: Ms. DELBENE, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, and Mr. CROW.
H.R. 3552: Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 3563: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 3564: Mr. GOHMERT and Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 3598: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 3615: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 3637: Mrs. BEATTY and Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 3646: Mr. DESJARLAIS.
H.R. 3667: Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 3702: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3735: Mrs. DEMINGS and Mr. SWALWELL
of California.
H.R. 3742: Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 3749: Mr. BAIRD.
H.R. 3758: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 3760: Mr. GREEN of Texas.
H.R. 3795: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 3798: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 3799: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 3824: Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 3934: Mr. GOHMERT.
H.R. 3961: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. SIMPSON, and
Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 3975: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 4009: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 4019: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 4029: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 4056: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 4069: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH.
H.R. 4104: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 4132: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 4133: Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 4172: Mr. KIM and Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 4183: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 4189: Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 4227: Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 4232: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 4248: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 4300: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 4304: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 4348: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 4351: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 4370: Mr. BUCK, Mr. BANKS, and Mr.
GIANFORTE.
H.R. 4371: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 4399: Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. SMITH of Ne-
braska, Mr. TURNER, Mr. DUNN, Mr. MURPHY
of North Carolina, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. HICE of
Georgia, and Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 4508: Mr. BERA and Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 4509: Mrs. MURPHY of Florida.
H.R. 4519: Mr. SMUCKER and Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 4527: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 4540: Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. ALLRED, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mrs. HAYES,
Mr. ROUDA, and Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 4556: Mr. PETERS and Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 4570: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 4571: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 4605: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 4634: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. HECK,
Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. KATKO, Mrs. MURPHY of
Florida, Mr. KIND, Miss RICE of New York,
Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
BUDD, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. BARR, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. EMMER, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. GROTHMAN,
Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr. MCHENRY,
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr. STIVERS,
Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CASE, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Mr. CRIST, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. DAVIDSON
of Ohio, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. LEVIN
of California, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. TAYLOR, and
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut.
H.R. 4639: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 4640: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 4644: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 4667: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 4672: Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. HUFFMAN, and
Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 4674: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
PASCRELL, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. NADLER, Mr.
SERRANO, and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 4681: Mr. VARGAS and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 4684: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 4704: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 4708: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 4709: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 4718: Ms. DEAN, Mr. SOTO, Mr. GARCÍA
of Illinois, Ms. LEE of California, and Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 4729: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL and Mr.
CICILLINE.
H.R. 4735: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Ms.
WILD, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, and Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 4768: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 4787: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 4797: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 4810: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 4820: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 4826: Ms. FINKENAUER and Mrs.
BEATTY.
H.R. 4872: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 4887: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 4890: Mr. FOSTER, Mr. CUELLAR, and
Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 4894: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 4897: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4910: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 4914: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 4919: Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. BALDERSON,
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr. JOHNSON
of South Dakota, and Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 4932: Mr. PALAZZO.
H.R. 4934: Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. ADERHOLT, Mr.
MURPHY of North Carolina, and Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 4937: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 4957: Mr. CASE and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 4965: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mrs.
LURIA, and Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 4978: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 4980: Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. MITCHELL,
Mr. KHANNA, and Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 4985: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 4988: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 4990: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa and Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 4995: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 4999: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 5004: Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 5014: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 5015: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 5019: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 5047: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 5052: Mr. HECK and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 5066: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 5068: Mrs. LEE of Nevada and Mrs.
DINGELL.
H.R. 5084: Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia, and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 5086: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia,
Mr. LAMBORN, and Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 5092: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 5098: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 5119: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. CARSON
of Indiana.
H.R. 5127: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. ADAMS, Mrs.
TORRES of California, and Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.J. Res. 76: Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
RASKIN, and Mr. VARGAS.
H.J. Res. 78: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.J. Res. 79: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H. Con. Res. 68: Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr.
STAUBER, Mrs. LURIA, and Mr. MOONEY of
West Virginia.
H. Con. Res. 74: Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
NORTON, and Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H. Res. 117: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut.
H. Res. 220: Ms. ADAMS.
H. Res. 375: Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. LEWIS, Mrs. LAWRENCE,
Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. CRIST, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms.
TLAIB, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr. RUP-
PERSBERGER, Ms. DELAURO, Ms. DEAN, Mr.
MORELLE, Mr. COHEN, Mr. SOTO, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. VEASEY, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Ms. LEE of California, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, and Mr. THOMP-
SON of Mississippi.
H. Res. 410: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H. Res. 538: Mr. SOTO.
H. Res. 678: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. KELLY of
Mississippi, Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr.
HURD of Texas, Mrs. MILLER, Mr. WATKINS,
and Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee.
H. Res. 686: Mr. BUCK.
H. Res. 688: Ms. MOORE, Mr. CLEAVER, and
Mr. KHANNA.
H. Res. 706: Ms. KELLY of Illinois and Mr.
PHILLIPS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO7.025 H18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6615
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2019 No. 184
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, Your truth endures for-
ever. Make us conscious of our short-
comings, limitations, and liabilities.
Lord, guide our lawmakers. Give
them the humility to depend on Your
leading and to receive the gift of Your
grace for daily living. Create in them
joy in service, courage in danger, and
enthusiasm in glorifying You in our
Nation and world. Inspire them to be
people who will stand for right though
the Heavens fall.
We pray in Your sovereign Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to address the Sen-
ate for 1 minute as in morning busi-
ness.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, the
minority leader is so committed to his
campaign rhetoric, calling the Senate
a political graveyard, that he is killing
the House-passed appropriations pack-
age that funds our national defense and
pays our troops.
Leader MCCONNELL has twice moved
to take up the House bill that funds
the Pentagon, as well as the Depart-
ments of State, Health and Human
Services, Energy, Education, and oth-
ers, but the majority leader has been
constantly blocked by the Democrats.
The minority leader claims to be
shocked and outraged that the Senate
isn’t taking up partisan messaging
bills from the House when it is very
normal for both Houses not to take up
every bill passed by the other Chamber.
That doesn’t apply to appropriations,
however, because one thing is very cer-
tain: We have to fund the government,
and those bills absolutely have to come
up and be passed by both Houses.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, for
weeks now, almost daily, I have spoken
about the need to get our appropria-
tions process back on track and the
need for bipartisan agreement to fund
the Federal Government and, particu-
larly, to provide our military com-
manders with the resources and sta-
bility they need.
That kind of smooth process was ex-
actly what Congress was on track for
just a few months ago. Leaders in both
parties, in both Houses, and at both
ends of Pennsylvania Avenue signed
onto a deal that set top-line funding
levels and ruled out obstacles like poi-
son pills. Alas, as I have discussed at
length, policy riders crept back into
the process, and our discussions
stalled. As a result, here we are again—
behind schedule.
We need to get results on appropria-
tions before the end of the year. So,
while the House and the Senate con-
tinue negotiations on setting the allo-
cations, we need to buy more time. The
House and the Senate need to pass a
continuing resolution to fund the gov-
ernment through December 20 and
allow these talks to continue. The Sen-
ate can’t originate this funding bill,
but we will wait to receive legislation
from the House and then vote on it be-
fore we head back to our home States.
This is what we need: a CR, as clean
as possible, through December 20 to en-
able more progress on appropriations
before the end of this year. A clean CR
through December 20 would pass the
Senate, and the White House has indi-
cated that President Trump would sign
it. Let me say that again. The adminis-
tration indicates the President is will-
ing and ready to sign a clean CR
through December 20 so that we can
finish our work.
This is our opportunity to get a bi-
partisan process back on track. First,
with bipartisan, bicameral coopera-
tion, we can safely fund the Federal
Government through mid-December so
talks can continue. Then, with more
cooperation, we can reach agreement
on allocations and pass as many of the
12 appropriations bills as possible be-
fore the end of the year.
f
NOMINATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
now, on another matter, while we wait
on the House, the Senate will take the
opportunity to consider three more of
President Trump’s well-qualified nomi-
nees to the Federal bench and the dip-
lomatic corps.
Later today, we will vote to advance
the nomination of Justice Robert
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO6.000 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6616 November 18, 2019
Luck, of Florida—the President’s im-
pressive nominee—to be a U.S. circuit
judge for the 11th Circuit. Then we will
consider Justice Barbara Lagoa, who
has also been nominated to the 11th
Circuit. Both are impressive nominees
who have sterling qualifications—two
more fine choices by President Trump.
Finally, the Senate will turn its atten-
tion to the diplomatic corps and con-
firm Adrian Zuckerman, of New Jersey,
to serve as the Ambassador to Roma-
nia.
I hope each of my colleagues will join
me in supporting all three confirma-
tions as the Senate continues to give
the American people the government
for which they voted.
f
HONG KONG
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
a final matter, in the last few days, the
reports and images coming out of Hong
Kong have become even more dis-
turbing. The police crackdown on
Hongkongers who are standing up for
their freedom and their region’s auton-
omy has intensified.
University campuses now literally
look like war zones, with government
forces laying siege to groups of stu-
dents and other protesters. Many ob-
servers feel the situation may be
verging on something truly terrible. In
the midst of this crackdown, just
today, Hong Kong’s High Court ruled
against the executive and actually in
favor of the protesters’ rights—yet an-
other signal it is the government that
is acting beyond the bounds of its au-
thorities.
This latest escalation against
Hongkongers comes as Beijing faces
international fallout from leaked docu-
ments that delineate the government’s
chilling, systematic campaign against
ethnic minorities in another sup-
posedly autonomous region, Xinjiang—
hundreds of pages of internal docu-
ments from the Chinese Communist
Party government. It is a handbook for
this Orwellian campaign to effectively
erase a religious and ethnic minority
in a region that, again, is supposed to
be legally distinct from the rest of
China. This effort is being conducted
using ‘‘organs of dictatorship’’ and
‘‘absolutely no mercy.’’
The protesters are not the problem.
It is Beijing and the Hong Kong leader-
ship that must deescalate. The Com-
munist Party must know it will hurt
them catastrophically if it turns Hong
Kong into some 21st century version of
Tiananmen Square. The United States
would not forget it, and neither would
China’s other trading partners all
across the world.
So what can the United States do?
In September, I worked to add lan-
guage to the State and Foreign Oper-
ations appropriations bill to modify
the reporting requirements of the 1992
Hong Kong Policy Act, which, by the
way, was my bill back in 1992. My addi-
tions would work to expose the current
tools the Chinese Communist govern-
ment is using to subvert the autonomy
of Hong Kong and to allow the U.S.
Government to pay for the legal sup-
port for Hong Kong’s democracy activ-
ists.
One important step to help Hong
Kong is for the House and Senate
Democrats to finally get to ‘‘yes’’ on
the appropriations process.
Last week, I had a productive meet-
ing with the senior Senator from Flor-
ida on the subject of revising and ex-
tending the Hong Kong Policy Act
through new legislation. As I indicated,
I authored the original bill back in 1992
and have been keenly interested in
Hong Kong’s status for decades. So I
appreciate the leadership Senator
RUBIO and others have shown and hope
we can find a way to move this impor-
tant bill. Yet, while I support addi-
tional legislation, the United States
does not need to wait for new laws to
act further. There are already signifi-
cant tools at the administration’s dis-
posal, and I strongly encourage them
to use them.
I have been encouraged to hear clear
statements on China from key mem-
bers of President Trump’s team in re-
cent months. I would encourage this
President, who has seen Chinese behav-
ior for what it is with a clarity that
others have lacked, not to shy away
from speaking out on Hong Kong him-
self. The world should hear from him
directly that the United States stands
with these brave men and women.
This administration has rightly un-
derstood what prior administrations
have entirely missed. The old con-
sensus was that economic moderniza-
tion in China would automatically im-
port our values of freedom and human
dignity into their society. Now, every
day reminds us that this simply has
not happened. Instead, Beijing is using
modern technology it has obtained
through integration with the West to
further its political and social control
over its own population and expand
China’s reach beyond its shores.
So, rather than focusing solely on
trade, I encourage the administration
to make Hong Kong’s autonomy a key
topic within our bilateral diplomacy.
The administration should also take
advantage of the tools Congress has al-
ready provided in Global Magnitsky to
target the individuals who are respon-
sible for egregious human rights
abuses. In Xinjiang and Hong Kong, the
world is seeing the true face of the
Communist Party of China.
The United States has a role to play
in standing up for the universal prin-
ciples of human rights, and I am con-
fident we will fulfill it. Yet our allies
and partners must also ask themselves
whether they are prepared to live in a
world that is being increasingly shaped
by those who show absolutely no mercy
to religious and ethnic minorities and
who confront peaceful protest with vio-
lence.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
our Republican friends have spent the
past several weeks accusing Democrats
of being unable to work on serious
issues to help the American people be-
cause the impeachment inquiry into
President Trump is such a distraction.
The Republican leader has repeated
this absurd claim on the Senate floor,
and the President’s reelection cam-
paign is now running ads saying Demo-
crats refuse to work on infrastructure
or healthcare or drugs because of im-
peachment. These ads turn truth inside
out. Simply put, these ads are a lie.
Senate Democrats put together a
trillion-dollar infrastructure plan that
would create 15 million jobs. We did
that 3 years ago. Instead of working
with us on that goal, President Trump
walked out of the meeting on infra-
structure with Speaker PELOSI and me.
We haven’t heard a peep out of the ad-
ministration since then. That was long
before impeachment began. We haven’t
heard from the Republicans on what
they want to do on healthcare. We
haven’t heard from the President on a
proposal he sent us on drug prices. So
who is holding things up?
This Senate has been a legislative
graveyard for months and months and
months. It just amazes me the gall, the
temerity that the President and our
Republican friends have to say that
Democrats, because of impeachment,
are not moving forward. We have 218
bills that the House sent us. We
haven’t had one discussion here on im-
peachment. It has taken up no time.
Leader MCCONNELL, do you want to
get things done? Put one of those bills
on the floor. Let us have debate.
Republican Senators, go to MCCON-
NELL. Tell him you want to do some
stuff on the floor; that you want to leg-
islate.
No, no, we hear silence—abject,
shaky-knee silence—because our Re-
publican friends, and I imagine the
leader, are just afraid of President
Trump. When he makes up these lies,
they just go right along.
Many Republicans have even com-
plained that Leader MCCONNELL has
turned the Senate into a legislative
graveyard. So the idea that the im-
peachment inquiry is preventing Con-
gress from debating legislation on in-
frastructure or prescription drugs or
healthcare or any other matter is com-
pletely absurd. Democrats are happy
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18NO6.003 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6617
November 18, 2019
and eager to work on those issues. Sen-
ate Democrats are waiting with bated
breath for the Republican leader to put
any of these bills on the floor or for
any Republican to speak out and de-
mand they go on the floor. The silence
of our Republican colleagues indicates
that they are going along with this
strategy as well.
We meet this week in the Senate, and
the majority leader has, once again,
scheduled no legislative business on
the floor—none. We are not debating
impeachment. We are not discussing
impeachment. For 3 weeks in a row,
there has been not one legislative
piece, not one legislative bill. That is
all the evidence one needs to know
which party is blocking progress in the
Chamber.
The American people know it. When
they are asked what they think of the
Republicans in the Senate and the Re-
publicans in Congress, the marks are
very low. I imagine that is because
they are getting nothing done.
Concerning the impeachment inquiry
itself, the public hearings last week
have brought up many troubling alle-
gations, including the startling revela-
tion that Ambassador Gordon Sondland
told another State Department official
that the President had made clear that
he cares more about Ukraine inves-
tigating the Bidens than about helping
Ukraine itself. The revelation added to
an already substantial body of evidence
that the President may—may—have
abused the powers of his public office
for personal political gain. I say ‘‘may’’
because we haven’t had the trial yet
here in the Senate, should the House
vote on articles of impeachment.
The President is now saying all this
stuff is false; that all these witnesses
are not telling the truth.
If the President believes that these
witnesses are false and that the facts
that are coming out of the Senate im-
peachment hearings are false, he
should testify under oath in the House.
If he wishes to present evidence to the
contrary, he should do it not by tweet
but by testimony under oath.
I wholeheartedly agree with Speaker
PELOSI’s invitation to President Trump
yesterday to testify in the House im-
peachment inquiry—not by tweeting
and not by sending a note but by com-
ing forward in person under oath, and
let’s see what the President rejects. If
the President doesn’t agree with what
he has heard in public hearings and he
has evidence he would like to present,
he can come to the committee and tes-
tify and answer questions under oath.
He should allow his advisers, who are
in fact witnesses in these matters, to
testify under oath as well. The Presi-
dent shouldn’t spread falsehoods about
the witnesses on Twitter. He should
come to Congress and make his case.
He should free up Pompeo and
Mulvaney and all the others who might
have real knowledge and let them tes-
tify.
The President and his allies in Con-
gress criticized the testimony for being
secondhand in nature, while at the
same time blocking those individuals
with firsthand knowledge from testi-
fying. Let’s end that particular hypoc-
risy.
President Trump, come testify. Allow
your advisers to testify. If you refuse
to come before the committee after
Speaker PELOSI’s invitation and if you
don’t let the people around you come
before the committee, one question
will loom before the American people:
What is President Trump hiding, and
why is he personally afraid to confront
the facts?
Before I yield the floor, I will address
a tragic pattern that has emerged in
this Trump Presidency that is different
from the previous one but very trou-
bling. Too often—it seems almost
weekly—President Trump announces
that he is considering or even sup-
porting a policy on which there is some
bipartisan agreement and then backs
off that position a few days, a few
weeks, or a few months later. If there
is an immediate issue, President
Trump seems almost afraid not to go
along with what the public wants, but
because his integrity is so minimal, he
must not really mean it because he
just reverses himself.
After the mass shootings in El Paso
and Dayton this summer, President
Trump said he was considering ‘‘very
strong background checks’’ as a re-
sponse to the violence. Leader MCCON-
NELL echoed him. He said that a debate
on gun violence would be front and cen-
ter in the Senate in September.
Now 3 months later, after another
high school shooting in Santa Clarita,
CA, another mass shooting at a neigh-
borhood party in Fresno, and another
shooting at a Walmart in Oklahoma as
recently as this morning, it has become
painfully clear that President Trump
and Leader MCCONNELL caved to the
corrupt leadership of the NRA once
again and will not move legislation to
address gun violence. President Trump
would rather protect his political in-
terests than protect American lives.
Gun violence isn’t the only issue
where President Trump has promised
bold action, only to back off. We heard
a new one this morning. Recent reports
suggest the President is now wavering
on his promise to ban flavored e-ciga-
rettes, which are marketed toward our
children. Once again the reporting says
that the President backed off after
hearing from industry lobbyists that
the ban might hurt the President po-
litically.
It is the same pattern. The President
promises to do something about a seri-
ous issue—in some cases, an issue that
threatens the lives of our children—and
then backs off and reverses himself
once the special interests weigh in.
President Trump, it is not too late.
Do what you said you were going to do.
It is not that hard. Ban these flavored
e-cigarettes. When e-cigarettes are
marketed as Gummy Bear or Captain
Crunch, they are not aimed at adults;
they are aimed at getting kids in high
school and junior high school—maybe
even younger—to start vaping, which
will ultimately harm them.
Another example occurred yesterday
and again today. The Trump adminis-
tration announced that it would extend
a temporary license granted to Huawei,
a Chinese telecom giant that our intel-
ligence and defense agencies have
deemed a national security threat.
Once again President Trump failed to
match his tough talk with appropriate
action. If President Trump and his
Commerce Department agree that
Huawei is a national security threat,
they ought to start acting like it.
Every time President Trump goes easy
on Huawei, the Chinese Communist
Party takes that as a signal that they
can hurt American jobs and threaten
our security without repercussion.
I would urge the President to read an
editorial by, I believe it is the Sec-
retary of the Air Force in today’s Wall
Street Journal—I read it this after-
noon—that says what the security
threat of allowing Huawei into this
country would be to our Armed Forces,
to our military men and women, and to
our country as a whole.
I publicly praise the President and
his administration when they have
done the right thing. I praised the
Trump administration when it an-
nounced it was going to ban flavored e-
cigarettes. I praised the administration
when it announced it was going to be
tough on Huawei. But announcements
don’t make the grade. When you back
off, when you waver, when you stam-
mer, all these announcements mean
nothing. And the American people do
remember it. There is an accounting.
Like on the issue of background
checks and gun safety, you just can’t
believe the President and his adminis-
tration when they say they are going
to do something. So many times when
the President says he is considering
some strong, bipartisan action, he
backs off, usually at the behest of lob-
byists or some special interests. On
these issues and several others, the
President has shown a profound lack of
political courage. It is one of the many
reasons why the President and this Re-
publican Senate, which shivers in obei-
sance to him, have accomplished so lit-
tle for the American people.
I yield the floor, and I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18NO6.009 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6618 November 18, 2019
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Robert J. Luck, of Florida, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the
Eleventh Circuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska is recognized.
TED STEVENS ARCTIC CENTER FOR SECURITY
STUDIES
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, it
was several weeks ago—actually, Octo-
ber 23—that here in the Senate we had
the opportunity to recognize a friend of
so many of us; a mentor, certainly, to
me; and a leader in Alaska. We recog-
nized the life and contributions of Sen-
ator Ted Stevens.
The Alaska congressional delegation
was able to join with members of the
Stevens family, many of his friends, his
congressional colleagues, and a lot of
former staff. We were able to unveil a
portrait of Senator Stevens that had
been commissioned for him as the
President pro tempore of the Senate. It
was a lovely ceremony and a great oc-
casion, and now his portrait hangs
back in the hall, behind where the Pre-
siding Officer is sitting.
It was a great occasion to be remem-
bering the contributions of Ted Ste-
vens. He represented my State from
1968 to 2009. He was the longest serving
Republican Senator in Senate history
at the time that he left office.
He left office with considerable pol-
icy legacies. Those in the fishing indus-
try remember the work he did with
Senator Magnuson in creating the
Magnuson-Stevens Act, which really
has become the framework for our sus-
tainable fisheries. It is something we
continue to look to. He also worked in
sports with the creation of the U.S.
Paralympics. We remember his encour-
agement and all that he did with
women and girls in sports regarding
title IX.
We all know his background and his
history. He was a pilot in World War II.
Certainly, here in the Senate, he was a
staunch advocate for our veterans and
for all of our military. He worked hand
in glove with his Senate brother and
friend, Senator Daniel Inouye, chairing
not only the Appropriations Com-
mittee itself but also the Sub-
committee on Defense Appropriations.
In that role, he helped to advance so
many of our national priorities.
Today is Ted Stevens’ birthday. If he
were alive today, he would be 96 years
old. Later this evening, there is going
to be a gathering. It is an annual gath-
ering on November 18, when friends of
Ted gather to raise a glass to a wonder-
ful man, a strong leader, a great Alas-
kan, and truly a friend of mine.
I think today Ted Stevens would be
smiling at what Senator SULLIVAN,
Congressman YOUNG, and I were able to
observe this morning.
The three of us—the full Alaska dele-
gation—were in Fort Worth, TX, at the
Lockheed Martin plant, and we were
able to participate in the signing as we
seek to roll off the line the first F–35
that will be based there at Eielson Air
Force Base. It will be the first of two
squadrons with there being a total
complement of 54 F–35s. It was a re-
minder to all of us of all we have done
in the State of Alaska in our focusing
on Alaska’s geostrategic position, not
in the country but in the world.
Ted Stevens clearly recognized that.
He was a visionary in so many areas,
and he was certainly a visionary when
it came to understanding the promise
but also the challenge of the Arctic
itself and how we were to ensure that
in this region. It is a region that is
pretty remote and pretty isolated, but
it is a region that is prepared and then,
with that preparation, is able to pro-
tect.
As we think about that role today
that Senator Stevens envisioned for
Alaska in terms of our role in pro-
tecting and defending the country but
also our broader, more global role and
responsibility, I come to talk about
legislation that I have introduced,
along with Senator SULLIVAN, to au-
thorize the Department of Defense to
create a sixth regional center for secu-
rity studies that is focused on the Arc-
tic.
I think it is very, very clear to us
that the Department of Defense, in par-
ticular, is keying in on the challenges
that we face in the Arctic. With the
growing prominence of the Arctic and
global geopolitical and strategic af-
fairs, now is the time to give the De-
partment of Defense the tools as well
as the abilities that it needs to foster
the research and the dialogue that we
think will be critical to our Nation’s
security.
Let me give a little bit of background
in terms of these regional centers. Cur-
rently, the Department of Defense has
five academic regional centers for secu-
rity studies. They cover the regions of
Europe, the Asia-Pacific, Africa, Near
East South Asia, and the Northern
Hemisphere. What these centers aim to
do is to support defense strategy objec-
tives and policy priorities through a
pretty unique academic forum, as well
as to foster strong international net-
works of security leaders.
Just to give a kind of basic compari-
son of what we are talking about here,
in specifics, the Asia-Pacific Center for
Security Studies is actually fully enti-
tled the Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific
Center for Security Studies. It was es-
tablished in Hawaii back in 1995, but it
is a DOD institution that provides a
forum at which current and future
military and civilian leaders from the
Indo-Pacific gather to address regional
and global security issues and enhance
security cooperation through programs
of executive education, professional ex-
change, and building relationships of
trust and confidence. Currently, over 30
countries send participants to engage,
to learn, and to really build those rela-
tionships.
The Ted Stevens Arctic Security
Studies Center, which is what we seek
to name this Arctic center, will be
modeled after the Daniel K. Inouye
Asia-Pacific Center for Security Stud-
ies. There being the fact that the two
of them worked hand in glove for so
many years—really, for decades—on
these issues of national security and
national defense from both the perspec-
tive of the far north as well as the
Asia-Pacific, it is only fitting that we
model the Ted Stevens Arctic Security
Studies Center after the Arctic center
named after Daniel Inouye.
Senator SCHATZ clearly understands
the value of the Asia-Pacific center,
and he has joined Senator SULLIVAN
and me as a cosponsor of this legisla-
tion.
What we are really seeking to do
here—the overarching goal of this Arc-
tic security studies center—is to find
solutions for the greatest security
challenges of the circumpolar Arctic
region in order to help promote a
greater understanding of the Arctic—
we know we have to do more there—as
well as to facilitate greater engage-
ment and potential solutions for the
many challenges that we know lie
ahead.
It is an evolving world up there. Let
me tell you that it is an evolving
world. As we are seeing the impact
from climate changes, as we are seeing
ice recede, as we are seeing waterways
open up, as we are seeing greater ac-
cess, as we are seeing greater threats,
what are we doing to prepare?
I think it is important to recognize
that the proposed center would be addi-
tive in nature. It is not looking to take
away from any of the other very excel-
lent efforts that support the DOD’s
mission in the Arctic. What we are
seeking to do is to provide additional
value while creating new partnerships
and supporting critical research. We
hope—certainly, it is the intent here—
to complement current structures, like
the multinational Security Forces
Roundtable, led by USEUCOM and the
Norwegian Defence Staff. The center
will build on the Arctic Coast Guard
Forum, wherein, effectively, you have
senior leaders from the Coast Guards
from all over the Arctic nations gather
to discuss defense and security con-
cerns.
Just this last Thursday, I had an op-
portunity to be part and spoke via vid-
eoconference of the importance of this
strategic dialogue at the Arctic Sym-
posiums and Arctic Senior Leader
Summits, which was held by
NORTHCOM and ALCOM.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18NO6.011 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6619
November 18, 2019
Again, what we are seeking to do
here is to help facilitate the array of
international senior leaders and Arctic
subject matter experts to come to-
gether for these substantive dialogues
on the Arctic. The Arctic presents an
opportunity to expand the DOD Re-
gional Center’s model to study the
rapid changes in communications,
technology, environment, and societies
in remote and sparsely populated areas
with underdeveloped infrastructure.
I mentioned that this would be addi-
tive in nature, that we seek to collabo-
rate with other current structures that
are doing good work, but we seek to
have close partnerships with research
centers like we have at the Wilson Cen-
ter’s Polar Institute, at the University
of Alaska Fairbanks’ Arctic Domain
Awareness Center, as well as at the
Coast Guard Academy Center for Arc-
tic Study and Policy.
We need to have strong involvement
from Native leaders and indigenous
peoples. How we incorporate and how
we elevate the Native expertise in the
Arctic that has been informed by cen-
turies of experience of having lived in
the region must also be a priority. The
center should also be used as a joint
commanded venue with Canada and
other Arctic partners. This would be ef-
fectively replicating the success of the
model that we have with the George C.
Marshall Center with Germany.
Since Senator SULLIVAN and I intro-
duced this bill to establish this new
DOD Arctic security studies center, we
have gotten great input. I am pleased
that we have seen a lot of interest from
within our State and outside as well.
Several have reached out to our offices
to express their interest in supporting
and developing the concept of this cen-
ter.
I think we see Arctic security emerg-
ing as an area of threat as well as in-
terest, and it certainly remains the
likely spillover conflict area should
confrontations occur within Europe or
Asia. So great scholarship, plus inter-
national and interdisciplinary engage-
ment from an Arctic center, would help
to advance defense readiness, develop
our awareness, and improve ally and
partner capabilities to support multi-
national security cooperation across
the circumpolar Arctic.
This is something that I am excited
to be working on, and I know Senator
SULLIVAN is as well. I invite other col-
leagues to join us in this effort. I think
that our friend Ted Stevens would ap-
prove of this as well.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Robert J. Luck, of Florida, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh
Circuit.
Rick Scott, Steve Daines, Mike Crapo,
Pat Roberts, Marco Rubio, Lindsey
Graham, John Hoeven, Roy Blunt,
Mike Rounds, John Thune, John Cor-
nyn, Deb Fischer, John Barrasso,
James E. Risch, John Boozman, Tim
Scott, Mitch McConnell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Robert J. Luck, of Florida, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the
11th Circuit shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Sen-
ator from Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote or change their vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 61,
nays 30, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 357 Ex.]
YEAS—61
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Reed
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—30
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Rosen
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wyden
NOT VOTING—9
Booker
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Murphy
Roberts
Sanders
Schatz
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 61, the nays are 30.
The motion is agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, I was ab-
sent but had I been present I would
have voted no on rollcall vote No. 357,
the motion to invoke cloture on Execu-
tive Calendar No. 487, Robert J. Luck,
of Florida, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Eleventh Circuit.∑
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
REMEMBERING SENATOR KAY
HAGAN
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, our na-
tion mourns the loss of former Senator
Kay Hagan, an exemplary civil servant
who thoughtfully represented the peo-
ple of her beloved North Carolina. She
was a role model for women across the
Nation, and will be remembered as an
example of committed service to the
American public.
Senator Hagan was born on May 26,
1953, in Shelby, NC. She learned about
the importance of public service at an
early age from her uncle, U.S. Senator
and former Florida Governor Lawton
Chiles, and her father, Joe P. Ruthven,
a Navy veteran who served as the
mayor of Lakeland, FL. Senator Hagan
earned her bachelor’s degree in 1975
from Florida State University, fol-
lowed by a juris doctorate from Wake
Forest University. She worked in bank-
ing and as a stay-at-home mother be-
fore turning to politics, which gave her
a valuable insight into both the private
sector and the needs of everyday fami-
lies.
Senator Hagan served in the North
Carolina Senate, where she became one
of the body’s chief budget writers. This
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18NO6.013 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6620 November 18, 2019
was where Senator Hagan earned her
reputation as an effective civil servant
and where she laid the ground work for
many of the policies she would cham-
pion when elected to Congress in 2008.
Senator Hagan was a champion for
the people, working to secure
healthcare for all Americans, support
working families, protect the right to
marry for same-sex couples, and aid in
the recovery efforts following the 2008
financial crisis. Throughout this time,
she proved herself to be an outstanding
example of a leader guided by her
moral compass and the needs of her
constituents. She was a force for good.
After her time in Congress, she devoted
herself to studying the role of money
in politics and strove to preserve gov-
ernment accountability to the public.
Senator Hagan’s steadfast dedication
to the State of North Carolina and our
entire country will continue to inspire
others for generations to come. She
will be remembered as a role model for
young women and a voice dedicated to
empowering and uplifting middle-class
families. Senator Hagan is survived by
her husband, Chip Hagan, her children,
and a host of family and friends. She
will be dearly missed, and her legacy
will live on through everyone she
touched while serving the American
people.∑
f
IMMIGRATION
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, ear-
lier this week, I sat in the Supreme
Court and listened to the oral argu-
ments in the case challenging Presi-
dent Trump’s decision to shut down the
deferred action for childhood arrivals
program, or DACA.
DACA is the program we fought so
hard for. It is what has allowed nearly
700,000 undocumented youth across
America—the bright young people we
call Dreamers—to come out of the
shadows and to pursue their dreams
without fear of deportation. That in-
cludes nearly 17,000 Dreamers in my
home State of New Jersey.
We all remember the heart-wrench-
ing stories before DACA—kids applying
for driver’s licenses on their birthdays
only to discover they weren’t citizens;
students opening college acceptance
letters with pride, only to learn they
couldn’t receive financial aid; young
people trying to enlist in the military,
only to find out their undocumented
status disqualified them. These are the
stories that I shared with President
Obama during a meeting several years
ago when I made the case for DACA
with the Congressional Hispanic Cau-
cus. I thought back to that meeting as
I sat in the Supreme Court earlier this
week. I remembered bringing along a
legal memo that made clear the Fed-
eral Government had the authority to
use prosecutorial discretion to protect
Dreamers from deportation. After
years of pushing the administration
and fearless advocacy by thousands of
Dreamers nationwide, President Obama
eventually saw the light, and the pro-
gram we now know as DACA was born.
DACA offered law-abiding young peo-
ple who were brought to this country
as children through no decision of their
own the opportunity to come out of the
shadows and step into the light to ful-
fill their God-given potential. And that
is exactly what they did. Dreamers put
their faith in our government.
They registered with the Department
of Homeland Security, paid fees, passed
criminal background checks, and hand-
ed over personal details about them-
selves and their families to authorities
they have been hiding from their entire
lives. They did this all to qualify for
DACA’s promise of a 2-year renewable
work permit and protection from de-
portation. Dreamers put their trust in
the U.S. Government, but as we all
know by now, President Trump be-
trayed that trust. He betrayed young
people like Manny Sanchez, one of the
many Dreamers from New Jersey who
traveled to Washington, DC, this week
to make their voices heard.
Manny was brought to the United
States at just 1 month old. Today he is
20, attending Brookdale Community
College in Middletown, NJ, where he
studies nursing and volunteers with
local emergency medical services.
Without DACA, he risks being deported
to Mexico, a country he doesn’t even
know. ‘‘I wouldn’t know what to do,
where to go, what my future would be
like,’’ Manny said. ‘‘This is really my
home.’’
These kids are as American as apple
pie. Dreamers grew up pledging alle-
giance to our flag, singing our national
anthem, loving our country. They are
American in every way except for a
piece of paper. Dreamers are suc-
ceeding in our schools, playing on our
sports teams, attending our colleges,
serving in our military, and loving our
country because it is their country too.
Their home is here. So I refuse to let
their lives be ruined in the name of
White nationalist fear mongering. And
I refuse to let them be used as bar-
gaining chips for this administration’s
anti-immigrant agenda which seeks to
tie protections for Dreamers to radical
cuts to legal family-based immigration
and billions of dollars for the Presi-
dent’s hateful, ineffective border wall.
Should the Supreme Court strike down
DACA, we will have a national emer-
gency on our hands. It will shatter
families. It will strike fear into our
communities. And it will cost our econ-
omy dearly.
In New Jersey alone, ending DACA
would shrink our economy by nearly
$1.6 billion a year and reduce U.S. GDP
by $460 billion over the next decade.
This is not what I call law and order.
This is what I call fear and chaos.
There is no way to spin this. When
President Trump said he wanted to
‘‘treat these young people with love,’’ I
say, ‘‘Love like this we don’t need!’’
Ending DACA and threatening to de-
port hundreds of thousands of upstand-
ing young Dreamers, that is not love.
That is hate. That is why now, more
than ever, we in the U.S. Senate must
show real love for our Dreamers. The
House of Representatives passed a bill,
the American Dream and Promise Act,
a bill that would protect Dreamers and
offer them the path to citizenship they
deserve, a bill that would honor the
service of our men and women in uni-
form, harness the potential of talented
young students across our Nation, and
help create a brighter future for all
Americans.
For years, I have heard my Repub-
lican colleagues talk glowingly about
America’s Dreamers, talk about how
they are incredible kids, talk about
how we must protect them from depor-
tation, and talk about how they de-
serve a path to citizenship. Well, our
Dreamers deserve to know whether it
was all just talk. Senate Majority
Leader MITCH MCCONNELL must pull
this bill out of his legislative grave-
yard and hold a vote the American
Dream and Promise Act. Let’s find out
exactly who in the U.S. Senate wants
to keep the dream alive and who wants
to snuff it out. There is no excuse for
decrying the President’s decision to
end DACA but doing absolutely noth-
ing about it. This is the U.S. Senate.
We don’t have to leave the future of
America’s Dreamers in the hands of the
Supreme Court. We don’t have to sit on
our hands and wait for this ruling to
come out. And we certainly don’t have
to let one reckless decision by Presi-
dent Trump ruin the lives of nearly
700,000 Dreamers and the millions of
Americans who know them, love them,
work with them, serve with them, and
depend on them. Only Congress can
provide a permanent pathway to citi-
zenship for Dreamers. It has never been
more urgent that we do so.
f
WORLD DAY OF REMEMBRANCE
FOR ROAD TRAFFIC VICTIMS
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President,
the World Day of Remembrance for
Road Traffic Victims commemorates
the millions of people killed and in-
jured on the world’s roads. It is also a
day to thank emergency responders for
their role in saving lives; to reflect on
the impact of road deaths on families
and communities, to draw attention to
the need for improved legislation,
awareness, infrastructure, and tech-
nology to save more families from the
tragedy of losing a loved one.
Since the United Nations recognized
the World Day of Remembrance for
Road Traffic Victims, its observance
has spread to a growing number of
countries on every continent. The day
has become an important advocacy
tool in global efforts to reduce road
casualties, and the theme of this year’s
World Day of Remembrance is ‘‘Life is
not a car part.’’ Additionally, the
United Nations Sustainable Develop-
ment Goal 3.6 calls on governments and
their stakeholders, including NGOs and
private citizens, to address the per-
sonal medical, and financial burdens
associated with road deaths and inju-
ries. More than 1 million people die
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO6.003 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6621
November 18, 2019
from road crashes every year, and tens
of millions are seriously injured. Road
traffic crashes are the No. 1 killer of
young people aged 15–29 and the eighth
leading cause of death among all peo-
ple worldwide.
Rochelle Sobel, president of the Asso-
ciation for Safe International Road
Travel, highlighted the gravity of this
issue and the imperative to fix it:
Every 27 seconds somewhere in the world a
person dies in a road crash. Those of us who
have lost loved ones in a crash know only
too well the ongoing pain and devastation
that this tragedy causes families and com-
munities. Road crashes are preventable. We
must all work together so that the hopes and
dreams of our loved ones are not shattered in
the roads of the world.
We all need to do our part to take ac-
tion to prevent these avoidable trage-
dies and to save lives.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO MIKE DETTORI
∑ Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, along
with my colleagues Senator JAMES E.
RISCH and Representative MIKE SIMP-
SON, I congratulate Mike Dettori, Fair-
field District Ranger on the Sawtooth
National Forest, who is retiring after
40 years of service in the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s Forest Service.
Mike began as District Ranger for
the Fairfield Ranger District in 2004
after considerable experience in many
areas for the Forest Service. In 1980, he
started as a Range Management Spe-
cialist on the Kamas Ranger District of
the Wasatch-Cache National Forest in
Kamas, UT. He then went on to serve
as a Rangeland Management Specialist
on the Lost River Ranger District of
the Challis National Forest in Mackay,
ID, after graduating with a bachelor of
science degree in rangeland science
from the University of Nevada in 1982.
He then served as an interdisciplinary
rangeland management specialist for
the Yankee Fork Ranger District in
Clayton, ID, and rangeland manage-
ment specialist for the Big Summit
Ranger District in Prineville, OR, be-
fore serving as acting district ranger
on both the Livingston and Big Timber
Ranger Districts in Montana. He also
served as forest range staff on the Gal-
latin National Forest and on an inci-
dent management team.
Throughout his decades of Federal
service, Mike has been a steady leader
and sensible voice contributing to the
science and management of the dis-
tricts and the well-being of the staff.
He has not only been an integral part
of the agency, but also an important
community member, as he has also
given his time to serve in many com-
munity organizations.
Thank you, Mike, for your service
and leadership and for your contribu-
tions to the management of wonderful
parts of our great State and country
all these years. We wish you much hap-
piness in your well-earned retirement.∑
TRIBUTE TO JENNIFER BECK
WALKER
∑ Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, Jennifer
Beck Walker has used her career to
show that perseverance, dedication,
and a strong work ethic can not only
lead to success but make positive
change in communities. In 1987, Jen-
nifer became an intern at the Purchase
Area Development District in
Mayfield, KY. Over the years, she
worked up through the ranks in var-
ious roles, married her husband Eric,
and had 2 sons, Wyatt and Aidan. Jen-
nifer was named the executive director
of the PADD in 2008 and her commit-
ment to the growth and development of
the region has been unsurpassed.
Today, I congratulate Jennifer on her
retirement and send my best wishes for
her future.∑
f
RECOGNIZING MOUNTAIN VIEW
DENTAL CLINIC
∑ Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, as a mem-
ber and former chairman of the Senate
Committee on Small Business and En-
trepreneurship, each month I recognize
and celebrate the American entrepre-
neurial spirit by highlighting the suc-
cess of a small business in my home
State of Idaho. However, in honor of
Veterans Day on November 11, this
month I will honor a veteran-owned
small business for each of the 10 days
the Senate is in legislative session. The
personal sacrifices made by America’s
veterans have protected the very free-
doms and values that give each of us
and our children the ability to achieve
the American dream. The skills vet-
erans learn as members of the military
are invaluable and undoubtedly con-
tribute to Idaho’s flourishing veteran
business community. I am proud of the
sacrifices veterans have made to pro-
tect our country and that they are
choosing Idaho to call home when they
complete their service in the military.
As your U.S. Senator from the great
State of Idaho, it is my pleasure to rec-
ognize Mountain View Dental Clinic in
Soda Springs as the veteran-owned
Idaho Small Business of the Day for
November 18, 2019.
Mountain View Dental Clinic is
owned by U.S. Air Force veteran Dr.
Jerry Walker, DMD. Walker was born
and raised in Rexburg before moving to
Pennsylvania to attend dental school.
Luckily for Idaho, Walker returned
home to the Gem State to open his
practice and serve the Soda Springs
community. With more than 18 years of
clinical experience, Walker and his em-
ployees pride themselves on building
trust with their clients.
Walker and his staff provide routine
dental care services such as cleanings
and oral cancer screenings, in addition
to cosmetic services tailored to fit the
needs of each patient. The team at
Mountain View Dental Clinic works
hard to remain at the forefront of den-
tal research and technology, ensuring
that patients enjoy a comfortable expe-
rience at the dentist.
Congratulations to Dr. Jerry Walker
and all of the employees at Mountain
View Dental Clinic for being selected
as the Veteran-owned Idaho Small
Business of the Day for November 18,
2019. You make our great State proud,
and I look forward to your continued
growth and success.∑
f
RECOGNIZING MISHA’S CUPCAKES
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, as chair-
man of the Committee on Small Busi-
ness and Entrepreneurship, each week I
recognize a small business that exem-
plifies the American entrepreneurial
spirit at the heart of our economy. It is
my privilege to honor a Florida small
business that not only creates a great
product but also invests time and ef-
fort into charitable work for the Great-
er Miami area. This week, it is my
pleasure to honor Misha’s Cupcakes of
Coral Gables, FL, as the Senate Small
Business of the Week.
Established in 2005, Misha’s Cupcakes
offers a variety of delicious baked
goods at its multiple storefronts
throughout South Florida. After hear-
ing about a small cupcake company in
Los Angeles which produced 1,000 cup-
cakes a day, founder Misha Kuryla be-
came inspired and believed she could
replicate the same process. She began
baking cupcakes out of her kitchen,
and after strategically giving away
several free samples, landed her first
wholesale account from a local bakery.
What started as small, home-based op-
eration has developed into a thriving
company, employing nearly 70 Florid-
ians. Misha’s Cupcakes now produces
more than 10,000 baked goods every day
at its stores and warehouse. In addition
to selling baked goods locally, Misha’s
Cupcakes sells its products nationally
through its website. This website offers
customers not only the ability to order
products such as cookies and brownies
but also to request donated cupcakes
for a charity event or fundraiser.
Misha’s Cupcakes’ dedication to com-
munity service has been central since
its founding when Misha donated sev-
eral hundred cupcakes to a local breast
cancer awareness event. Since then,
this business has remained committed
to serving its community. It has par-
taken in a wide range of community
service events, including donating
baked goods to local food banks and or-
ganizing a Hurricane Dorian relief
drive for the people of the Bahamas.
Such dedication to service has made
Misha’s Cupcakes a valuable member
of South Florida’s community.
Residents of South Florida have re-
sponded to Misha’s Cupcakes’ involve-
ment in their community by becoming
loyal customers. In addition to receiv-
ing rave reviews, the business was
named ‘‘Best Cupcakes in Miami’’ by
the Miami New Times in 2014 and ‘‘Best
Cupcakes in Florida’’ by the Daily
Meal in 2017. Misha herself has also
been honored by the community for her
dedicated work. In 2012, she was named
an ‘‘uncommon thinker’’ by her alma
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO6.004 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6622 November 18, 2019
mater, Florida International Univer-
sity—FIU—and participated as a speak-
er at FIU’s 2017 Women’s Leadership
Summit.
Misha’s Cupcakes is a great example
of the integral role community ori-
ented small businesses play in our
unique American economy. I commend
their efforts to provide a quality prod-
uct while simultaneously making local
involvement a priority. Congratula-
tions again to the entire team at
Misha’s Cupcakes. I look forward to
watching your continued growth and
success.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on November 15,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker had signed the fol-
lowing enrolled bills:
H.R. 724. An act to revise section 48 of title
18, United States Code, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 1123. An act to amend title 28, United
States Code, to modify the composition of
the eastern judicial district of Arkansas, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 2423. An act to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint coins in commemo-
ration of ratification of the 19th Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, giv-
ing women in the United States the right to
vote.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:02 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 4863. An act to promote the competi-
tiveness of the United States, to reform and
reauthorize the United States Export Fi-
nance Agency, and for other purposes.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
The President pro tempore (Mr.
GRASSLEY) announced that on today,
November 18, 2019, he has signed the
following enrolled bills, which were
previously signed by the Speaker of the
House:
H.R. 724. An act to revise section 48 of title
18, United States Code, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 1123. An act to amend title 28, United
States Code, to modify the composition of
the eastern judicial district of Arkansas, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 2423. An act to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint coins in commemo-
ration of ratification of the 19th Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, giv-
ing women in the United States the right to
vote.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bill was read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 4863. An act to promote the competi-
tiveness of the United States, to reform and
reauthorize the United States Export Fi-
nance Agency, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–3186. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3874’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on November
1, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3187. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3873’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on November
1, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3188. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0404))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on November 1, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3189. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs,
Consumer Product Safety Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Revisions to Safety Stand-
ard for Toddler Beds’’ (16 CFR Part 1217) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 6, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3190. A communication from the Dep-
uty Bureau Chief, Wireline Competition Bu-
reau, Federal Communications Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Connect America Fund’’
((FCC 19–104) (WC Docket No. 10–90)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on November 6, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3191. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0522))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 7, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3192. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0718))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 7, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3193. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0724))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 7, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3194. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Saab AB, Saab Aeronautics
(Formerly Known as Saab AB, Saab
Aerosystems)’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2019–0520)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 7, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–3195. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Textron Aviation Inc. (Type
Certificate Previously Held by Beechcraft
Corporation)’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2019–0853)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 7, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–3196. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; BRP–Rotax GmbH & Co KG
Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0747)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on November 7, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–3197. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3875’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
November 7, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3198. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3876’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
November 7, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3199. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Wray, CO’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0371))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 7, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3200. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18NO6.006 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6623
November 18, 2019
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Walden, CO’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0372))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 7, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3201. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Wando Terminal Crane Move-
ment; Charleston, SC’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0741)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on No-
vember 12, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3202. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zones; Humboldt Bay Bar and En-
trance Channel, Eureka, CA, Noyo River En-
trance Channel, Ft. Bragg, CA, and Crescent
City Harbor Entrance Channel, Crescent
City, CA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0813)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 12,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3203. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Monte Foundation Fireworks
Display, Soquel Cove, Capitola, CA’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0819)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on November 12, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–3204. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Explosive Venting of Poten-
tially Hazardous Material South Bay, San
Francisco Bay, Union City, CA’’ ((RIN1625–
AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–0851)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on November 12, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3205. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Naval Training Operations,
U.S. Naval Magazine Indian Island, WA’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0741)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on November 12, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–3206. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Drawbridge Operation Regulation;
Petaluma River, Haystack Landing
(Petaluma), CA’’ ((RIN1625–AA09) (Docket
No. USCG–2018–0091)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 12,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3207. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zone; Inner Harbor, Baltimore, MD’’
((RIN1625–AA87) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0738)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on November 12, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–3208. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Object Removal Delaware and
Schuylkill Rivers, PA and NJ’’ ((RIN1625–
AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–0850)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on November 12, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3209. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Regulated Navigation Area; Saint Simons
Sound, GA’’ ((RIN1625–AA11) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0803)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 12,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3210. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Kanawha River, Charleston,
WV’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0849)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on November 12, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–3211. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Leif Erickson Day Row and
Run, Charlevoix, MI’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Dock-
et No. USCG–2019–0757)) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on November
12, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3212. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Mackinaw City Fall Colors
Fireworks, Mackinaw City, MI’’ ((RIN1625–
AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–0758)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on November 12, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3213. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator, National Ma-
rine Fisheries Service, Department of Com-
merce, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Fisheries of the
Northeastern United States; Northeast
Skate Complex; Framework Adjustment 5
and 2018–2019 Specifications’’ (RIN0648–BH57)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3214. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator, National Ma-
rine Fisheries Service, Department of Com-
merce, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘International Fish-
eries; Western and Central Pacific Fisheries
for Highly Migratory Species; Fishing Lim-
its in Purse Seine and Longline Fisheries,
Restrictions on the Use of Fish Aggregating
Devices in Purse Seine Fisheries, and Trans-
shipment Prohibitions’’ (RIN0648–BH77) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3215. A communication from the Assist-
ant Administrator, National Marine Fish-
eries Service, Department of Commerce,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Pacific Coast Groundfish
Fishery; Groundfish Bottom Trawl and
Midwater Trawl Gear in the Trawl Rational-
ization Program; Correction’’ (RIN0648–BH74)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3216. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator, National Ma-
rine Fisheries Service, Department of Com-
merce, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Fisheries Off West
Coast States; Coastal Pelagic Species Fish-
eries; Multi-Year Harvest Specifications for
the Central Subpopulation of Northern An-
chovy’’ (RIN0648–BI73) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on November
12, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3217. A communication from the Chief
Financial Officer, National Environmental
Satellite, Data, and Information Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Schedule of Fees for Access to NOAA Envi-
ronmental Data, Information, and Related
Products and Services; Correction’’
(RIN0648–BI60) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 12,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3218. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs,
Consumer Product Safety Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Revisions to Safety Stand-
ards for Non-Full-Size Baby Cribs and Play
Yards’’ (16 CFR Part 1220 and 1221) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on November 14, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3219. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Reallocation of Pacific Cod in
the Western Regulatory Area of the Gulf of
Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XY503) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on No-
vember 14, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3220. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Several Groundfish Species in
the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area’’ (RIN0648–XY049) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on No-
vember 14, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3221. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Reallocation of Pacific Cod in
the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area’’ (RIN0648–XY503) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on No-
vember 14, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3222. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Non-American
Fisheries Act Crab Vessels Operating as
Catcher Vessels Using Pot Gear in the West-
ern Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alaska’’
(RIN0648–XY028) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 14,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3223. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO6.010 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6624 November 18, 2019
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Vessels Using Pot
Gear in the Western Regulatory Area of the
Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XY027) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
November 14, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3224. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Pa-
cific Island Pelagic Fisheries; 2019 Common-
wealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Big-
eye Tuna Fishery; Closure’’ (RIN0648–XG925)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 14, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3225. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
and South Atlantic; 2019 Commercial Ac-
countability Measure and Closure for South
Atlantic Gray Triggerfish; July through De-
cember Season’’ (RIN0648–XS014) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
November 14, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3226. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Summer Flounder Fishery; Quota
Transfer from NC to CT’’ (RIN0648–XX024) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 14, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3227. A communication from the Farm
Production and Conservation Business Cen-
ter Analyst, Commodity Credit Corporation,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP)
Interim Rule’’ ((7 CFR Part 1470) (RIN0578–
AA67)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on November 13, 2019; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–3228. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community
Eligibility’’ ((44 CFR Part 64) (Docket No.
FEMA–2019–0003)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 14,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–3229. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community
Eligibility’’ ((44 CFR Part 64) (Docket No.
FEMA–2019–0003)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 14,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–3230. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community
Eligibility’’ ((44 CFR Part 64) (Docket No.
FEMA–2019–0003)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 14,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–3231. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community
Eligibility’’ ((44 CFR Part 64) (Docket No.
FEMA–2019–0003)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 14,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–3232. A communication from the Senior
Advisor, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy in the position of Assistant Secretary
for Legislation, Department of Health and
Human Services, received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on November 14,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–3233. A communication from the Gen-
eral Counsel, Office of Management and
Budget, transmitting, pursuant to law, a re-
port relative to a vacancy in the position of
Administrator of the Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on November 13,
2019; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–3234. A communication from the Acting
Chief Privacy Officer, Department of Home-
land Security, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘2018 Data Mining Re-
port to Congress’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–3235. A communication from the Officer
for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the Department’s Office for
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties semiannual
report for the first and second quarters of
fiscal year 2019 (October 1, 2018 - March 31,
2019); to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–3236. A communication from the Senior
Advisor, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy in the position of Director of the In-
dian Health Service, Department of Health
and Human Services, received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on November
14, 2019; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–157. A resolution adopted by the
House of Representatives of the State of
Michigan urging the United States Congress
to support federal funding for ports, harbors,
and critical marine infrastructure in the
Great Lakes region including the Soo Locks
construction project; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
HOUSE RESOLUTION NO. 160
Whereas, the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence
Seaway system is the longest deep-draft wa-
terway in the world spanning from Duluth,
Minnesota to the Atlantic Ocean. This com-
mercial waterway provides cost-effective and
reliable transportation for cargo, including
iron ore, coal, steel, machinery, cement, and
petroleum products that are staples in every-
day life—whether that be for road improve-
ments or the energy powering our cities; and
Whereas, the economic importance of the
Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Seaway system
cannot be overstated. Commerce along the
seaway supported over 200,000 jobs and gen-
erated over $35 billion in economic activity
in 2017 alone. Maintaining the ports, harbors,
and critical infrastructure of the seaway is
necessary to protect American industry and
jobs; and
Whereas, maintaining and updating the
Soo Locks in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan is
of utmost importance, not only to the resi-
dents of Michigan but to all Americans.
Nearly 80 percent of domestic iron ore—the
primary material used to manufacture steel
critical to the auto industry and construc-
tion—travels from mines in Minnesota and
Michigan’s Upper Peninsula through the Soo
Locks; and
Whereas, even a six-month unplanned clo-
sure at the Soo Locks would devastate steel,
automobile, and other heavy equipment pro-
duction throughout North America, decreas-
ing U.S. gross domestic production by $1.3
trillion and costing more than 11 million
jobs. The effect would ripple across national
supply chains and eventually lead to a full
shut down of steel production in Pennsyl-
vania; and
Whereas, Congress has appropriated an ini-
tial $32 million to begin construction at the
Soo Locks; however, the $1 billion project
will require continued appropriation from
Congress through the completion of the
project. The economic risk of a Soo Locks
closure is too great to delay funding for even
one year; now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the House of Representatives,
That we urge Congress and the President to
support federal funding for ports, harbors,
and critical marine infrastructure in the
Great Lakes region including the Soo Locks
reconstruction project; and be it further
Resolved, That copies of this resolution be
transmitted to the President of the United
States Senate, the Speaker of the United
States House of Representatives, and the
members of the Michigan congressional dele-
gation.
POM–158. A bill adopted by the Legislature
of the State of Florida requesting the Joint
Committee on the Library of Congress to ap-
prove the replacement of the statute of Con-
federate General Edmund Kirby Smith in the
National Statuary Hall Collection with a
statue of Mary McLeod Bethune; to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration.
SENATE BILL NO. 472
Whereas, in March 2016, the Florida Legis-
lature passed, and the Governor signed into
law, Senate Bill 310, authorizing the replace-
ment of the statue of Confederate General
Edmund Kirby Smith in the National Stat-
uary Hall Collection with a statue of a
prominent Florida citizen recommended by
the ad hoc committee of the Great Florid-
ians Program within the Division of Histor-
ical Resources of the Department of State,
and
Whereas, one of the three prominent Flor-
ida citizens recommended by the ad hoc com-
mittee is Mary McLeod Bethune, and
Whereas, Mary McLeod Bethune was born
on July 10, 1875, in Mayesville, South Caro-
lina, and she was the first member of her
family, including all of her 16 siblings, born
free following the conclusion of the Civil
War, and
Whereas, beginning at a young age, Mary
McLeod Bethune became engaged with learn-
ing and teaching after receiving an oppor-
tunity to attend Trinity Presbyterian Mis-
sion School in her hometown, and her dedi-
cation was evidenced through attending as
many classes as she could and teaching her
parents and siblings what she had learned,
and
Whereas, Mary McLeod Bethune was
awarded a scholarship allowing her to enroll
at the then-Scotia Seminary for Girls in
Concord, North Carolina, from which she
graduated in 1893, and she went on to con-
tinue her studies at the Moody Bible Insti-
tute in Chicago, and
Whereas, upon graduating from the Moody
Bible Institute, Mary McLeod Bethune be-
came a teacher and taught at schools in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO6.012 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6625
November 18, 2019
Georgia and South Carolina before moving to
Florida to teach at the Palatka Mission
School, and
Whereas, through observing the bur-
geoning black population in the area
prompted by labor needed for railroad con-
struction, Mary McLeod Bethune decided to
follow through with her dream of opening
her own school, and
Whereas, Mary McLeod Bethune bought a
small cottage in Daytona Beach to allow for
the opening of the Daytona Literary and In-
dustrial Training School for Negro Girls in
1904 and through her commitment to fund-
raising, the school’s enrollment grew from 5
to 250 students in just 2 years, and
Whereas, the school continued to grow,
which eventually resulted in its merger with
the Cookman Institute for Men in Jackson-
ville to form Bethune-Cookman College,
where she later served as president, and
Whereas, Mary McLeod Bethune’s advo-
cacy continued with her founding of the Na-
tional Council of Negro Women and her ap-
pointment as Director of the Division of
Negro Affairs of the National Youth Admin-
istration by President Franklin Delano Roo-
sevelt, and
Whereas, through her position as the high-
est ranking African-American woman in the
Federal Government, Mary McLeod Bethune
was able to assist African-American youth in
finding employment and worked with the
Women’s Army Corps during World War II to
recruit African-American female officers,
and
Whereas, upon her death in 1955, Mary
McLeod Bethune’s inspirational leadership
was praised by many, including former First
Lady Eleanor Roosevelt, who lauded ‘‘her
wisdom and her goodness,’’ and
Whereas, in 1995, the United States Na-
tional Park Service established the Mary
McLeod Bethune Council House National
Historic Site in Washington, D.C., which has
preserved the townhouse that was once her
personal residence and the first headquarters
of the National Council of Negro Women, and
Whereas, Mary McLeod Bethune’s legacy
continues to be felt in Florida through the
continued success of Bethune-Cookman Uni-
versity, whose enrollment is currently ap-
proaching a record high of 4,000 students, and
Whereas, it is appropriate to honor Mary
McLeod Bethune as one of two Floridians
memorialized in statues in the National
Statuary Hall Collection given her signifi-
cant and continuing impact on this state,
Now, therefore, be it
Enacted by the Legislature of the State of
Florida:
Section 1. The Legislature of the State of
Florida hereby respectfully requests the
Joint Committee on the Library of Congress
to approve the replacement of the statue of
Confederate General Edmund Kirby Smith in
the National Statuary Hall Collection with a
statue of Mary McLeod Bethune. Contingent
upon such approval by the Joint Committee
on the Library of Congress. ownership of the
statue of General Edmund Kirby Smith shall
transfer to the state in accordance with 2
U.S.C. S. 2132(d). The Division of Cultural Af-
fairs of the Department of State shall take
possession of the returned statue. and make
the statue available for public display.
Section 2. This act shall serve as an official
request to the Joint Committee on the Li-
brary of Congress pursuant to 2 U.S.C. S.
2132.
Section 3. On the effective date of this act,
the Department of State shall deliver a copy
of this act to the President of the United
States Senate, the Speaker of the United
States House of Representatives, the Joint
Committee on the Library of Congress, and
to each member of the Florida delegation to
the United States Congress.
Section 4. This act shall take effect July 1,
2018.
POM–159. A petition from a citizen of the
State of Texas relative to impeachment pro-
tocols; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute:
S. 764. A bill to provide for congressional
approval of national emergency declarations,
and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–159).
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON for the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
* Peter Gaynor, of Rhode Island, to be Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency, Department of Homeland
Security.
By Mr. BLUNT for the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
* Hugh Nathanial Halpern, of Virginia, to
be Director of the Government Publishing
Office.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 2879. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to reauthorize and extend the
Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders Preven-
tion and Services program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S. 2880. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to award grants
to States to provide safety measures to so-
cial workers, health workers, and human
services professionals performing services
placing such individuals in high-risk and po-
tentially dangerous situations, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr.
THUNE):
S. 2881. A bill to require the Federal Com-
munications Commission to make not less
than 280 megahertz of spectrum available for
terrestrial use, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for Ms. HARRIS):
S. 2882. A bill to establish a community
wildfire defense grant program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. KENNEDY):
S. 2883. A bill to apply the provisions relat-
ing to consumer liability for unauthorized
transfers to small business concerns, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 2884. A bill to apply the Fair Debt Col-
lection Practices Act to small business debt
to the same extent as such Act applies to
consumers, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Ms.
ROSEN):
S. 2885. A bill to prohibit the transfer or
sale of certain consumer health information,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. PORTMAN, and Mr.
WHITEHOUSE):
S. 2886. A bill to prohibit the use of animal
testing for cosmetics and the sale of cos-
metics tested on animals; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. JONES:
S. 2887. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to ad-
dress and take action to combat rural teach-
er shortages across the United States; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself and
Mr. PETERS):
S. 2888. A bill to amend title 40, United
States Code, to modify the treatment of cer-
tain bargain-price options to purchase at less
than fair market value, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Mr. HAWLEY (for himself, Mr. COT-
TON, and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 2889. A bill to safeguard data of Ameri-
cans from foreign governments that pose
risks to national security by imposing data
security requirements and strengthening re-
view of foreign investments, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 2890. A bill to promote conservation, im-
prove public land, and provide for sensible
development in Douglas County, Nevada, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. Res. 428. A resolution authorizing the
taking of pictures and filming in the Cham-
ber of the Senate for use by the Capitol Vis-
itor Center; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for Ms. HARRIS
(for herself, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BOOKER, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. WYDEN, and Ms. WARREN)):
S. Res. 429. A resolution recognizing the
importance of the Civil Rights Act of 1866
and the laws derived from the Civil Rights
Act of 1866; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO6.018 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6626 November 18, 2019
(Mr. CARDIN) and the Senator from
Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) were added
as cosponsors of S. 133, a bill to award
a Congressional Gold Medal, collec-
tively, to the United States merchant
mariners of World War II, in recogni-
tion of their dedicated and vital service
during World War II.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
172, a bill to delay the reimposition of
the annual fee on health insurance pro-
viders until after 2021.
S. 227
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH) and the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) were added as cosponsors of S.
227, a bill to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral to review, revise, and develop law
enforcement and justice protocols ap-
propriate to address missing and mur-
dered Indians, and for other purposes.
S. 457
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI), the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. REED) were added as
cosponsors of S. 457, a bill to require
that $1 coins issued during 2019 honor
President George H.W. Bush and to di-
rect the Secretary of the Treasury to
issue bullion coins during 2019 in honor
of Barbara Bush.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 479, a bill to revise sec-
tion 48 of title 18, United States Code,
and for other purposes.
S. 598
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 598, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to increase certain
funeral benefits for veterans, and for
other purposes.
S. 651
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
651, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the age
requirement with respect to eligibility
for qualified ABLE programs.
S. 670
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 670, a bill to make daylight sav-
ings time permanent, and for other
purposes.
S. 805
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 805, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to improve the
processing of veterans benefits by the
Department of Veterans Affairs, to
limit the authority of the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to recover overpay-
ments made by the Department and
other amounts owed by veterans to the
United States, to improve the due proc-
ess accorded veterans with respect to
such recovery, and for other purposes.
S. 877
At the request of Mr. KAINE, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
877, a bill to prohibit the sale of shark
fins, and for other purposes.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 901, a bill to amend the Older
Americans Act of 1965 to support indi-
viduals with younger onset Alzheimer’s
disease.
S. 1130
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1130, a bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to improve the health of
children and help better understand
and enhance awareness about unex-
pected sudden death in early life.
S. 1254
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1254, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Transportation to review and
report on certain laws, safety meas-
ures, and technologies relating to the
illegal passing of school buses, and for
other purposes.
S. 1257
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1257, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to expand tax-free
distributions from individual retire-
ment accounts to include rollovers for
charitable life-income plans for chari-
table purposes.
S. 1397
At the request of Ms. SMITH, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
1397, a bill to amend the Help America
Vote Act of 2002 to provide for a na-
tional Federal write-in absentee ballot
for domestic use.
S. 1468
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1468, a bill to support the
successful implementation of the 1991
Paris Peace Agreement in Cambodia,
and for other purposes.
S. 1476
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Maine
(Ms. COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1476, a bill to waive the 24-month
waiting period for Medicare eligibility
for individuals disabled by Hunting-
ton’s disease.
S. 1569
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1569, a bill to amend the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 to allow
certain expenditures for cybersecurity-
related services or assistance.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) and the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. REED) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1757, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively,
to the United States Army Rangers
Veterans of World War II in recogni-
tion of their extraordinary service dur-
ing World War II.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. MCCONNELL), the Senator from
Colorado (Mr. BENNET), the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. MORAN), the Senator
from Indiana (Mr. BRAUN), the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the
Senator from Arkansas (Mr. BOOZMAN)
and the Senator from Iowa (Mr. GRASS-
LEY) were added as cosponsors of S.
1838, a bill to amend the Hong Kong
Policy Act of 1992, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1992
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW), the Senator from
Washington (Mrs. MURRAY), the Sen-
ator from Mississippi (Mr. WICKER), the
Senator from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN), the
Senator from New Hampshire (Mrs.
SHAHEEN), the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING), the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN), the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY), the Senator from Flor-
ida (Mr. RUBIO), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. SMITH) and the Senator
from Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1992, a bill to
amend the FAST Act to repeal a rescis-
sion of funds.
S. 2112
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2112, a bill to enhance the rights of do-
mestic workers, and for other purposes.
S. 2203
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2203, a bill to extend the transfer of
Electronic Travel Authorization Sys-
tem fees from the Travel Promotion
Fund to the Corporation for Travel
Promotion (Brand USA) through fiscal
year 2027, and for other purposes.
S. 2367
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2367, a bill to support the
preparation and retention of out-
standing educators in all fields to en-
sure a bright future for children and
youth in under-resourced and under-
served communities in the United
States, and for other purposes.
S. 2427
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO6.022 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6627
November 18, 2019
cosponsor of S. 2427, a bill to amend
title 31, United States Code, to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint
and issue quarter dollars in commemo-
ration of the 19th Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, and
for other purposes.
S. 2550
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2550, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to deny
the deduction for advertising and pro-
motional expenses for tobacco products
and electronic nicotine delivery sys-
tems.
S. 2570
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
names of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) and the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2570, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Greg
LeMond in recognition of his service to
the United States as an athlete, activ-
ist, role model, and community leader.
S. 2680
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) and the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 2680, a bill to impose sanc-
tions with respect to foreign support
for Palestinian terrorism, and for other
purposes.
S. 2699
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2699, a bill to reauthorize the Fed-
eral Ocean Acidification Research and
Monitoring Act of 2009, and for other
purposes.
S. 2742
At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL,
the name of the Senator from Iowa
(Mr. GRASSLEY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2742, a bill to require the Di-
rector of the Bureau of Prisons to be
appointed by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate.
S. 2783
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from Utah (Mr. LEE) was
added as a cosponsor of S. 2783, a bill to
amend title 54, United States Code, to
establish, fund, and provide for the use
of amounts in a National Park Service
Legacy Restoration Fund to address
the maintenance backlog of the Na-
tional Park Service, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2794
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2794, a bill to
provide for the creation of the Missing
Armed Forces Personnel Records Col-
lection at the National Archives, to re-
quire the expeditious public trans-
mission to the Archivist and public dis-
closure of Missing Armed Forces Per-
sonnel records, and for other purposes.
S. 2874
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Tennessee (Mrs.
BLACKBURN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2874, a bill to terminate certain
waivers of sanctions with respect to
Iran issued in connection with the
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action,
and for other purposes.
S.J. RES. 6
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) and the Senator from
Virginia (Mr. KAINE) were added as co-
sponsors of S.J. Res. 6, a joint resolu-
tion removing the deadline for the rati-
fication of the equal rights amend-
ment.
S. RES. 98
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a
cosponsor of S. Res. 98, a resolution es-
tablishing the Congressional Gold Star
Family Fellowship Program for the
placement in offices of Senators of
children, spouses, and siblings of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces who are hos-
tile casualties or who have died from a
training-related injury.
S. RES. 260
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from Missouri (Mr. HAWLEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 260, a
resolution recognizing the importance
of sustained United States leadership
to accelerating global progress against
maternal and child malnutrition and
supporting the commitment of the
United States Agency for International
Development to global nutrition
through the Multi-Sectoral Nutrition
Strategy.
S. RES. 318
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 318, a resolution to support
the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuber-
culosis and Malaria, and the Sixth Re-
plenishment.
S. RES. 343
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 343, a resolution congratu-
lating the people of the Czech Republic
and the people of the Slovak Republic
on the 30th anniversary of the Velvet
Revolution, the 26th anniversary of the
formation of the Czech Republic and
the Slovak Republic, and the 101st an-
niversary of the declaration of inde-
pendence of Czechoslovakia.
S. RES. 410
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 410, a resolution establishing a
McCain-Mansfield Fellowship Program
in the Senate.
S. RES. 411
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN), the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) and the Senator from Ken-
tucky (Mr. PAUL) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 411, a resolution af-
firming that States maintain primacy
for the regulation of hydraulic frac-
turing for oil and natural gas produc-
tion on State and private lands, that
the President has no authority to de-
clare a moratorium on the use of hy-
draulic fracturing on State and private
lands, and that the President should
not attempt to declare a moratorium
on the use of hydraulic fracturing on
Federal lands (including the Outer Con-
tinental Shelf) or lands held in trust
for an Indian Tribe, unless the morato-
rium is authorized by an Act of Con-
gress.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 428—AU-
THORIZING THE TAKING OF PIC-
TURES AND FILMING IN THE
CHAMBER OF THE SENATE FOR
USE BY THE CAPITOL VISITOR
CENTER
Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 428
Resolved,
SECTION 1. AUTHORIZATION OF TAKING OF PIC-
TURES AND FILMING IN THE SENATE
CHAMBER FOR USE BY THE CAPITOL
VISITOR CENTER.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—Subject to subsection
(b), paragraph 1 of rule IV of the Rules for
the Regulation of the Senate Wing of the
United States Capitol and Senate Office
Buildings (prohibiting the taking of pictures
in the Senate Chamber) is temporarily sus-
pended—
(1) for the purpose of permitting the taking
of pictures and filming while the Senate is in
session or in recess; and
(2) for a period not to exceed a total of 7
days, of which the dates, locations, and
times shall be determined by the Committee
on Rules and Administration.
(b) LIMITATION ON USE OF IMAGES.—The pic-
tures taken and film made under subsection
(a) may only be used by the Capitol Visitor
Center for exhibits, digital interactive dis-
plays, and video presentations in the Capitol
Visitor Center that have been approved by
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
(c) ARRANGEMENTS.—The Capitol Visitor
Center, in collaboration with the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate and the
Secretary of the Senate, shall make the nec-
essary arrangements to carry out this reso-
lution, including such arrangements as are
necessary to ensure that the taking of pic-
tures and filming conducted under this reso-
lution does not disrupt any proceeding of the
Senate.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 429—RECOG-
NIZING THE IMPORTANCE OF
THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1866
AND THE LAWS DERIVED FROM
THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1866
Mr. SCHUMER (for Ms. HARRIS (for
herself, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO6.024 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6628 November 18, 2019
WYDEN, and Ms. WARREN)) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judici-
ary:
S. RES. 429
Whereas, in the aftermath of the Civil War,
the reunified United States struggled to re-
construct the war-torn States and establish
laws granting newly freed slaves the same
rights afforded to White citizens;
Whereas the reconstruction of the United
States following the conclusion of the Civil
War necessarily included the integration of
newly emancipated African Americans into
broader society and, with that emancipation,
the receipt by those emancipated African
Americans of civil and legal protections;
Whereas, as a response to the uncertain
and unequal status of newly freed slaves, the
13th Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States was ratified by the States on
December 6, 1865, formally abolishing slavery
‘‘within the United States, or any place sub-
ject to their jurisdiction’’;
Whereas, on April 9, 1866, Congress
overrode a Presidential veto to enact the Act
of April 9, 1866 (commonly known as and re-
ferred to in this preamble as the ‘‘Civil
Rights Act of 1866’’) (14 Stat. 27, chapter 31),
a law written to protect and clarify the
newly bestowed rights of persons of African
descent;
Whereas the Civil Rights Act of 1866 de-
clared that all persons born in the United
States are entitled to be citizens, without re-
gard to race, color, or previous condition of
slavery or involuntary servitude;
Whereas the Civil Rights Act of 1866 was
enacted—
(1) to establish that all persons born in the
United States are to be considered citizens;
(2) to clearly define the rights guaranteed
by United States citizenship; and
(3) to make it unlawful for any person to
deprive another person of those rights on the
basis of race;
Whereas the Civil Rights Act of 1866 served
the role of overriding ‘‘Black Codes’’, laws
enacted in southern States to restrict the
freedom of African Americans and keep for-
merly enslaved persons from thriving in so-
ciety;
Whereas the first section of the Civil
Rights Act of 1866 created an avenue for citi-
zens who fell victim to intentional racial dis-
crimination by allowing a citizen to go be-
fore a Federal court and allege that the cit-
izen was discriminated against while engag-
ing in lawful activity;
Whereas the first section of the Civil
Rights Act of 1866 was used to challenge the
laws established by southern States to limit
the rights and opportunities of newly freed
slaves;
Whereas, under section 1977 of the Revised
Statutes (42 U.S.C. 1981), which is derived
from section 16 of the Act of May 31, 1870
(commonly known as and referred to in this
preamble as the ‘‘Enforcement Act of 1870’’)
(16 Stat. 140, chapter 114) and the first sec-
tion of the Civil Rights Act of 1866, African
American citizens are given the right to en-
force contracts, give evidence in court, sue
and be sued, and purchase, sell, and convey
real and personal property;
Whereas, in 1975, the Supreme Court recog-
nized in Johnson v. Railway Express Agency,
Inc., 421 U.S. 454 (1975), that section 16 of the
Enforcement Act of 1870 allowed for private
employers to be held accountable for dis-
crimination within their ranks;
Whereas section 1977 of the Revised Stat-
utes (42 U.S.C. 1981) applies to all contracts,
including those between employer and em-
ployee, and has become a vital tool for em-
ployment discrimination claimants;
Whereas section 1977 of the Revised Stat-
utes (42 U.S.C. 1981) stands as one of the only
laws protecting against employers openly
discriminating on the basis of race when con-
tracting with other parties;
Whereas it is well established that section
1977 of the Revised Statutes (42 U.S.C. 1981)
has been invoked to challenge race discrimi-
nation in employment matters and has held
bad actors accountable for contract discrimi-
nation;
Whereas, in 1989, in Patterson v. McLean
Credit Union, 491 U.S. 164 (1989), the Supreme
Court narrowly interpreted section 1977 of
the Revised Statutes (42 U.S.C. 1981) to apply
only to contract formation, finding that only
certain points in a contractual engagement
could be subject to the protections afforded
in that section;
Whereas the ruling in Patterson v. McLean
Credit Union, 491 U.S. 164 (1989), functioned
as a major setback to ensuring that all as-
pects of the interaction between an em-
ployee or individual with a business would be
free of racial discrimination;
Whereas, in 1991, Congress, by statute, as
part of the Civil Rights Act of 1991 (Public
Law 102–166; 105 Stat. 1071), disagreed with a
plethora of Supreme Court decisions that un-
dermined Federal antidiscrimination laws
and challenged the restrictive interpretation
of section 1977 of the Revised Statutes (42
U.S.C. 1981) expressed by the Supreme Court
in Patterson v. McLean Credit Union, 491
U.S. 164 (1989);
Whereas the 2008 decision in CBOCS West,
Inc. v. Humphries, 553 U.S. 442 (2008), further
determined that section 1977 of the Revised
Statutes (42 U.S.C. 1981) prohibits not only
direct discrimination, but retaliation
against those alleging discrimination;
Whereas the intent of Congress is clear
through the legislative history of section
1977 of the Revised Statutes (42 U.S.C. 1981),
which definitively illustrates that the law
was meant to provide and enforce robust pro-
tection against race discrimination in con-
tracting;
Whereas section 1977 of the Revised Stat-
utes (42 U.S.C. 1981)—
(1) in subsection (a), provides that ‘‘[a]ll
persons within the jurisdiction of the United
States shall have the same right . . . to make
and enforce contracts . . . as is enjoyed by
white citizens’’; and
(2) in subsection (b), defines ‘‘make and en-
force contracts’’ to ‘‘include the making,
performance, modification, and termination
of contracts, and the enjoyment of all bene-
fits, privileges, terms, and conditions of the
contractual relationship’’;
Whereas section 1977 of the Revised Stat-
utes (42 U.S.C. 1981) clearly enumerates the
protections afforded to minorities in the
United States when contracting with busi-
nesses and makes clear that all aspects of
the creation, modification, and termination
of contracts are subject to the scrutiny of
that section;
Whereas the most direct interpretation of
section 1977 of the Revised Statutes (42
U.S.C. 1981) ensures that all racial minorities
in the United States be granted the oppor-
tunity to enter into contractual agreements
free of discrimination; and
Whereas section 1977 of the Revised Stat-
utes (42 U.S.C. 1981) serves as a critically im-
portant tool to ensure that no person is de-
nied the ability to contract with another on
the basis of race: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes and honors the historical sig-
nificance of section 1977 of the Revised Stat-
utes (42 U.S.C. 1981) and the instrumental
contributions of that law to the pursuit of
equal protection for all citizens of the United
States;
(2) reaffirms its commitment to the 13th,
14th, and 15th Amendments to the Constitu-
tion of the United States, to the Act of April
9, 1866 (commonly known as and referred to
in this resolving clause as the ‘‘Civil Rights
Act of 1866’’) (14 Stat. 27, chapter 31) (and the
laws derived from that Act), and to the civil
rights and liberties of all racial minorities
across the United States; and
(3) reaffirms the congressional intent be-
hind the first section of the Civil Rights Act
of 1866 (and the laws derived from that Act),
which was, and remains, the protection of
the rights of minorities seeking refuge from
racial discrimination in business.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have 2 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Monday, November 18,
2019, at 5:40 a.m., to conduct a hearing
on the nomination of Peter Gaynor, of
Rhode Island, to be Administrator of
the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Se-
curity.
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
The Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Monday,
November 18, 2019, to conduct a hearing
on the nomination of Hugh Nathanial
Halpern, of Virginia, to be Director of
the Government Publishing Office.
f
REPEALING EXISTING SUB-
STANDARD PROVISIONS ENCOUR-
AGING CONCILIATION WITH
TRIBES ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 252, S. 2071.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2071) to repeal certain obsolete
laws relating to Indians.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time and passed and that the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading, was read the third
time, and passed as follows:
S. 2071
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO6.027 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6629
November 18, 2019
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Repealing
Existing Substandard Provisions Encour-
aging Conciliation with Tribes Act’’.
SEC. 2. REPEAL OF CERTAIN OBSOLETE LAWS RE-
LATING TO INDIANS.
(1) Section 2080 of the Revised Statutes (25
U.S.C. 72) is repealed.
(2) Section 2100 of the Revised Statutes (25
U.S.C. 127) is repealed.
(3) Section 2 of the Act of March 3, 1875 (18
Stat. 449, chapter 132; 25 U.S.C. 128), is re-
pealed.
(4) The first section of the Act of March 3,
1875 (18 Stat. 424, chapter 132; 25 U.S.C. 129),
is amended under the heading ‘‘CHEYENNES
AND ARAPAHOES.’’ by striking ‘‘; that the
Secretary of the Interior be authorized to
withhold, from any tribe of Indians who may
hold any captives other than Indians, any
moneys due them from the United States
until said captives shall be surrendered to
the lawful authorities of the United States’’.
(5) Section 2087 of the Revised Statutes (25
U.S.C. 130) is repealed.
(6) Section 3 of the Act of March 3, 1875 (18
Stat. 449, chapter 132; 25 U.S.C. 137), is re-
pealed.
(7) Section 2101 of the Revised Statutes (25
U.S.C. 138) is repealed.
(8) Section 7 of the Act of June 23, 1879 (21
Stat. 35, chapter 35; 25 U.S.C. 273), is re-
pealed.
(9) The first section of the Act of March 3,
1893 (27 Stat. 612, chapter 209), is amended—
(A) under the heading ‘‘MISCELLANEOUS
SUPPORTS.’’ (27 Stat. 628; 25 U.S.C. 283), by
striking the last 2 undesignated paragraphs;
and
(B) under the heading ‘‘FOR SUPPORT OF
SCHOOLS.’’ (27 Stat. 635; 25 U.S.C. 283), by
striking the second undesignated paragraph.
(10) Section 18 of the Act of June 30, 1913
(38 Stat. 96, chapter 4; 25 U.S.C. 285), is
amended by striking the tenth undesignated
paragraph.
(11) The Act of June 21, 1906 (34 Stat. 325,
chapter 3504), is amended under the heading
‘‘COMMISSIONER.’’ under the heading ‘‘I. GEN-
ERAL PROVISIONS.’’ (34 Stat. 328; 25 U.S.C.
302) by striking the fourth undesignated
paragraph.
f
AUTHORIZING THE TAKING OF
PICTURES AND FILMING IN THE
CHAMBER OF THE SENATE FOR
USE BY THE CAPITOL VISITOR
CENTER
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent the Senate pro-
ceed to the consideration of S. Res. 428
submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 428) authorizing the
taking of pictures and filming in the Cham-
ber of the Senate for use by the Capitol Vis-
itor Center.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to and that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 428) was
agreed to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY,
NOVEMBER 19, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Tuesday, Novem-
ber 19; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, and the
time for the two leaders be reserved for
their use later in the day, morning
business be closed, and the Senate pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of the Luck nomination
with the post-cloture time expiring at
2:15 p.m.; further, if confirmed, the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; finally, that the Sen-
ate recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15
p.m. to allow for the conference meet-
ings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:28 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday,
November 19, 2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO6.005 S18NOPT1
Sspencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1457
November 18, 2019
PULMONARY HYPERTENSION
AWARENESS MONTH
HON. JAMIE RASKIN
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of Pulmonary Hypertension
Awareness Month and the outstanding work
the Pulmonary Hypertension Association
(PHA) in the fight against the rare and debili-
tating disease, pulmonary hypertension (PH).
Pulmonary Hypertension (PH) is high blood
pressure that occurs in the arteries of the
lungs. It reflects the pressure the heart must
apply to pump blood from the heart through
the arteries of the lungs. As with a tangled
hose, pressure builds up and backs up forcing
the heart to work harder and less oxygen to
reach the body. PH symptoms generally in-
clude fatigue, dizziness and shortness of
breath with the severity of the disease corre-
lating with its progression. If left undiagnosed
or untreated it can lead to heart failure and
death.
I am proud to represent the Pulmonary Hy-
pertension Association (PHA) headquartered
in Silver Spring. PHA is dedicated to extend-
ing and improving the life of those affected by
PH. PHA was the first organization in the
world dedicated to providing comprehensive
PH patient and caregiver support; medical
education; specialty care services that improve
patients’ quality of life; and research funding.
As a result of PHA’s advocacy for continued
investment in medical research and sustained
scientific progress, there are 14 Food and
Drug Administration-approved targeted treat-
ment options for two forms of PH.
When individuals are diagnosed with PH
quickly and begin appropriate therapy, their
prognosis and life-expectancy improve dra-
matically. However, it currently takes an aver-
age of 2.5 years to receive a diagnosis and
three quarters of patients have severe PH
when they are finally diagnosed. Without treat-
ment, historical studies have shown a mean
survival time of 2.8 years after diagnosis for
pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Pa-
tients with advanced PH cannot benefit as
greatly from available therapies and often face
dramatic and costly medical interventions, in-
cluding 24-hour IV infused medication, in-
creased risk for hospitalization and in some
cases heart-lung transplantation.
I am proud to work with PHA in their efforts
to increase awareness of PH and create new
programs that promote early and accurate di-
agnosis and quality care for PH patients.
Madam Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to join me in recognizing November
as Pulmonary Hypertension Awareness Month
and to continue supporting federal activities
that improve the lives of patients impacted by
PH including research programs at the Na-
tional Institutes of Health and the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.
STEVEN SUMMER
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Steven Summer, who after
45 years in the healthcare arena, including 13
years leading the Colorado Hospital Associa-
tion, is retiring. From Medicaid expansion to
advancing hospital safety improvements, Ste-
ven’s four and a half decades of service have
resulted in work to improve the quality, ac-
cess, and payment innovations in healthcare
systems.
Steven began his career with the Associa-
tion of American Medical Colleges, moving
first to the Maryland Hospital Association, and
then serving as President and CEO of the
West Virginia Hospital Association, before
capping his career for the past 13 years at the
helm of the Colorado Hospital Association.
These positions reflect his talent for bringing
people together and fostering and strength-
ening collaboration in developing healthcare
policy and finding healthcare delivery system
solutions—and all with a smile on his face.
Steven’s consensus-building approach con-
tributed to Colorado’s successful Medicaid ex-
pansion, the creation of Colorado’s Telehealth
Network, and advanced an innovative sub-
stance use disorder treatment partnership be-
tween emergency physicians and hospitals to
find alternatives to opioids, which serves as a
model for other states. Programs like the alter-
natives to opioids effort have been incor-
porated in federal opioid legislation and many
of CHA’s initiatives under his leadership have
informed federal policy and decision-making in
Washington.
Throughout his career, Steven has provided
countless time and resources to his commu-
nity by serving on local and state healthcare
boards and commissions, volunteering with
the Kavod Senior Life Home, and many local
programs like school and youth organizations.
I congratulate Steven on a lifetime of serv-
ice and wish him all the best in retirement.
f
RECOGNIZING JUSTIN BRADLEY
FOR THE 2019 MONTANA CON-
GRESSIONAL VETERAN COM-
MENDATION
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Justin Bradley of Lolo for
the Montana Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for his service to his country and
his service to his community.
Mr. Bradley is a veteran of the United
States Marine Corps from 2001 to 2006 serv-
ing in Operation Enduring Freedom in the Phil-
ippines and Afghanistan with two additional
deployments to Japan. He received multiple
commendations during his time in the Marines,
including the Combat Action Ribbon, a NATO
Ribbon, and the Marine Corps Good Conduct
Medal.
Following his service in the Marine Corps,
he returned to serve his community at the De-
partment of Corrections in the Probation and
Parole Division. There, he has dedicated him-
self to the protection of the community through
accountability and never complaining about
the long hours. In addition to this role, he
works closely with the Missoula County
Sherriff Crime Task Force, the High Intensity
Drug Task Force, and the U.S. Marshalls. Mr.
Bradley is known to help fellow officers individ-
ually in developing proper firearm safety, as
well as self-protection for when they are on
the job.
I ask my colleagues to join me today in
commending Justin Bradley for his service and
his dedication to his community.
f
IN HONOR OF ROBERT M.
RECHNITZ
HON. FRANK PALLONE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the life of Mr. Robert M.
Rechnitz. Mr. Rechnitz, a longtime resident of
the Locust section of Middletown, New Jersey,
passed away on October 12, 2019 after a vi-
brant life filled with numerous professional and
personal accomplishments.
Robert (Bob) Rechnitz was a prominent
member of the community and a fixture of the
thriving arts and humanities landscape in Mon-
mouth County. As co-founder and executive
producer of Two River Theater, Bob was com-
mitted to providing an outlet for creative ex-
pression and a preeminent institution for the
public to enjoy. In addition to his extensive
background and work in theater, Bob was an
esteemed educator, stalwart preservationist
and dedicated philanthropist. He lived his life
in service to his community and his achieve-
ments and generosity have been recognized
by many awards and tributes over the years.
His love of nature and the theater and his
commitment to social and humanitarian
causes left an indelible impact on the commu-
nity. From his support of the Monmouth Con-
servation Foundation and Monmouth Univer-
sity to his contributions to Monmouth Medical
Center and Riverview Medical Center, to
name just a few, his philanthropic endeavors
will benefit generations to come.
Bob leaves behind a loving family, including
his devoted wife and partner Joan, their chil-
dren Emily, Adam and Joshua, son-in-law
John Paladino, daughter-in-law Elizabeth
Fordi, grandchildren Max and Flora Paladino
and Esme Rechnitz, as well as many dear
friends and colleagues.
Madam Speaker, I sincerely hope that my
colleagues will join me in honoring Robert M.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K18NO8.001 E18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1458 November 18, 2019
Rechnitz for his devotion to his family and his
immeasurable contributions to the greater
Monmouth County community.
f
RECOGNIZING JEFFREY MEYERS
HON. ANN M. KUSTER
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Jeff Meyers,
Commissioner of the New Hampshire Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services
(NHDHHS), for his many years of service and
leadership in state government, including his
four-year tenure as Commissioner.
Prior to joining NHDHHS, Jeff previously
served as an Assistant Attorney General for
the state’s Department of Justice, as well as
the New Hampshire Senate’s legal counsel,
and as chief counsel to former Governor John
Lynch. During Jeff’s time with NHDHHS, he
was the Director of Intergovernmental Affairs,
leading the agency’s efforts to implement pro-
gramming, strategies and services. In 2016,
Jeff was nominated by Governor Maggie Has-
san and confirmed by the New Hampshire Ex-
ecutive Council as Commissioner of the
state’s largest agency.
As Commissioner, Jeff has managed signifi-
cant initiatives including the implementation of
the state’s bipartisan New Hampshire Health
Protection Program, which expanded access
to health insurance for thousands of under-
served Granite Staters. In addition, he nego-
tiated a federal waiver to support the capacity
of the state’s behavioral health system and
has promoted the integration of mental health
and substance use disorder services with
medical care. I commend Jeff Meyers for his
leadership as NHDHHS Commissioner, his
commitment to our state and wish him all the
very best in his professional endeavors.
On behalf of my constituents in New Hamp-
shire’s Second Congressional District, I thank
Jeff Meyers for all he has done to better
health and well-being in our state and look for-
ward to our future work together.
f
RECOGNIZING GREGORY GROVE
FOR THE 2019 MONTANA CON-
GRESSIONAL VETERAN COM-
MENDATION
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Gregory Grove of Eureka,
a recipient of the 2019 Montana Congres-
sional Veteran Commendation for his service
to his country and leadership in his commu-
nity.
Mr. Grove is a veteran of the United States
Navy. He served from 1983 to 1984 as a Die-
sel Engine Technician.
Mr. Grove is best known for his coaching of
the local Special Olympics team. His passion
and dedication to children has made a huge
impact in the community. Mr. Grove leads with
a tender heart and truly loves being a positive
influence on our youth. He has been involved
with the Big Brothers program, Boy Scouts, 4-
H, and coached Little League baseball. For
ten years he has coached for Special Olym-
pics. He’s also an incredible Santa Claus. If
you saw Mr. Grove, you could tell why his
smile makes every little face he sees light up
during Christmas time. He is also a member of
American Legion Eureka Post No. 74 and
plays an important role in the Highway Fatality
Marker program in Lincoln County.
I ask my colleagues to join me today in
commending Gregory Grove for his service to
his country and community.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. LORI TRAHAN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, on Novem-
ber 15, 2019, my vote was not recorded on
the McAdams amendment to H.R. 4863 (Roll
Call No. 619). I would like to reflect how I in-
tended to vote: YEA on Roll Call No. 619.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. AYANNA PRESSLEY
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Ms. PRESSLEY. Madam Speaker, due to
business that took me off the House floor on
November 15, 2019, I was unable to vote in
time to express my support of the McAdams
amendment to the United States Export Fi-
nance Agency Act.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 619.
f
RECOGNIZING DONALD
HELMBRECHT FOR THE 2019 MON-
TANA CONGRESSIONAL VETERAN
COMMENDATION
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Donald Helmbrecht of Vic-
tor for the Montana Congressional Veteran
Commendation for his service to his country
and dedication to veteran causes in his com-
munity.
Mr. Helmbrecht served in the U.S. Army for
seven years, spending time in both Vietnam
and Korea. Mr. Helmbrecht received multiple
commendations during his military service in-
cluding the Purple Heart and Bronze Star.
His dedication to his country and community
continued after his time serving in the Army.
Mr. Helmbrecht serves on the American Le-
gion Honor Guard with Corvallis Post 91
where he helps maintain the American Legion
roadway cross program, as well as veteran
crosses. Additionally, he is an active volunteer
in his church, and for many other community
activities.
I ask my colleagues to join me today in
commending Donald Helmbrecht for his serv-
ice and dedication.
CELEBRATING PATHWAYS EARLY
EDUCATION CENTER OF
IMMOKALEE’S 55TH ANNIVER-
SARY
HON. MARIO DIAZ-BALART
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Madam Speaker, in rec-
ognition of American Education Week, I rise
today to congratulate Pathways Early Edu-
cation Center of Immokalee on celebrating
their 55th anniversary and to commend them
for their dedication and exemplary service to
Southern Florida.
Originally named Immokalee Child Care
Center of Immokalee, Pathways Early Edu-
cation Center of Immokalee was founded in
1962 by members of the Church Women
United, who recognized a need for childcare
facilities in their community. At the time, work-
ing parents, specifically migrant workers, were
left with few options for childcare. This led to
parents having to make a difficult decision—
leave their children unattended or take them to
the fields during the workday. Both options
posed significant dangers for these children.
Knowing that this practice cannot continue,
dedicated members and community groups
worked together to raise funds and open a fa-
cility, which immediately served twenty-five
children.
Since its founding, Pathways Early Edu-
cation Center of Immokalee has not strayed
from its mission of providing quality education
and developmental services for the children of
Southern Florida. Presently, Pathways Early
Education Center of Immokalee serves 125
students from diverse backgrounds and con-
tinues to grow. Their curriculum centers on de-
veloping critical social, emotional, linguistic
and academic skills for their students to en-
sure that each child has the ability to meet
age-appropriate milestones. However, under-
standing that children need more than just in-
classroom teaching to be successful, Path-
ways plays an active role in supporting chil-
dren and their families after the school day
ends. They identify students who need addi-
tional assistance and partner with agencies
who provide them with access to mental
health services, food and shelter needs, and
healthcare options.
Having had the privilege of working with
Pathways Early Education Center of
Immokalee for a number of years, I continue
to be impressed by their steadfast commit-
ment to each and every child they teach. It
cannot be stated enough how important early
childhood education centers, like Pathways,
are for empowering students to reach their full
potential. I am proud that Florida’s 25th Con-
gressional district is home to such a dedicated
childcare center.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to recognize
Pathways Early Education Center of
Immokalee for their fifty-five years of service
to Southern Florida and the Immokalee com-
munity and I ask my colleagues to join me in
recognizing this remarkable organization.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO8.001 E18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1459
November 18, 2019
HONORING THE ISLAMIC CENTER
OF CULPEPER
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to the Islamic Center of Culpeper on
the occasion of the ground breaking of their
new mosque.
Culpeper, Virginia is home to a growing,
close-knit Muslim community known as the Is-
lamic Center of Culpeper, (ICC). For many
years the ICC community has been worshiping
in a very small space lacking proper heating in
the brutal winters and air conditioning in the
scorching summers. The facility even lacked
an adequate washing facility to perform ablu-
tion before prayers. The ICC searched for
nearly five years before finding and pur-
chasing a parcel of land in January of 2016.
Immediately, they made plans to begin con-
structing a brand-new mosque to serve as a
place of worship and a place for community.
The ICC had no idea of the challenges they
would face.
Since 1995, every pump and hall permit ap-
plication submitted to the Culpeper County
Government by a house of worship had been
approved, but in April of 2016, the County de-
nied ICC’s permit application.
The County also ordered a moratorium on
any new pump and haul applications, which
barred ICC from any attempts to re-apply, and
in advance of one of the local zoning hear-
ings, protesters hung a banner stating, ‘‘NO
ISLAMIC CENTER!’’ in big black letters.
The ICC fought back.
Muslim Advocates and Arnold & Porter
Kaye Scholer filed a lawsuit against the Coun-
ty on behalf of ICC, following a lawsuit by the
Department of Justice and one month later,
the ICC and the County reached a settlement.
The ICC could move forward with their plans
to build a mosque, and the County issued a
statement welcoming the ICC and com-
pensated the community for their expenses.
Please join me in honoring the ICC and
their resilience as they celebrate this mile-
stone project.
f
RECOGNIZING ROGER KNOELL FOR
THE 2019 MONTANA CONGRES-
SIONAL VETERAN COMMENDA-
TION
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Roger Knoell of Butte for
the Montana Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for his service to his country and
leadership in his community.
Mr. Knoell is a veteran of the United States
Navy serving in the Vietnam War. Over his
twenty years of service, Mr. Knoell received
multiple medals and awards, including the
Submarine Dolphin Warfare Pin, the Combat
Action Ribbon, and the National Defense
Service Medal.
Upon returning to his community, Mr. Knoell
dedicated his time to veteran groups in Butte.
As a member of the American Legion, he
served as a key member in the selection of
the of Butte for the new Southwest Montana
Veterans Home. Outside of his work with vet-
erans’ groups, Mr. Knoell serves on the Board
of Directors for the Legion Oasis Apartment
Complex, which provides low- and medium-in-
come housing for the residents of Butte. He is
also known to be a great Butte promoter,
bringing events to the community such as the
Harley Owners State Rally, and the United
States Submarine Veterans Incorporated.
I ask my colleagues to join me today in
commending Roger Knoell for his service to
his country and his dedication to the Butte
Community.
f
IN HONOR OF NATIONAL
APPRENTICESHIP WEEK
HON. RUSS FULCHER
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. FULCHER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in honor of National Apprenticeship
Week.
In my home state of Idaho, more than 1,500
students participate in registered apprentice-
ships. This is a jump of fifty percent in just the
last two years. More than 280 Idaho compa-
nies participate in apprenticeship programs.
They include companies like Micron Tech-
nology, that enroll about 350 people every
year in their apprenticeship program. But suc-
cess in apprenticeship programs is about
more than numbers. Take the story of Bryan
Brandel, who comes from my hometown of
Meridian. Bryan grew up watching his father
and grandfather work as linemen for the
phone company. Bryan seemed to be fol-
lowing in their footsteps when he enrolled in a
Vocational Technology program at Meridian
High School. He learned practical skills, in-
cluding how to weld. As Bryan was completing
high school, his father and grandfather en-
couraged him to pursue a traditional four-year
degree. He finished his degree; but wasn’t
sure what to do next. He went on to graduate
school, still not sure what he was going to do.
Months before completing his dissertation,
Bryan realized that he did not want to pursue
Ecology or Biology. He thought about his pas-
sion. That took him back to his high school
Vocational Technology program. He made the
bold step of becoming a lineman in the electric
utility industry. After finishing school at North-
west Lineman College, he started working for
Idaho Power, completing their lineman appren-
ticeship program. He obtained a journeyman
position on a line crew, and today is a line
crew foreman. Bryan’s story is typical of the
many young adults in our communities who
follow traditional education paths that might
not be right for them. Because of his experi-
ence, Bryan actively promotes apprenticeships
for Idaho Power. He speaks to high school
students about the wonderful opportunities
they bring. His story is truly inspirational. Ap-
prenticeship programs create good-paying
jobs, allow students to complete programs
debt-free, and provide a sense of accomplish-
ment. They give Idahoans like Bryan, and all
Americans, opportunity and purpose in our
market economy.
IN RECOGNITION OF NATIONAL CY-
BERSECURITY CAREER AWARE-
NESS WEEK
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, November
11th marks the start of National Cybersecurity
Career Awareness Week. This week-long
campaign focuses on local, regional and na-
tional interest to engage the community on not
only the importance of cybersecurity but ca-
reer opportunities in the field.
Cybersecurity IT workers play a vital role in
upkeeping the integrity of our systems, net-
works, and programs as well as pioneering
new ways to promote system strength against
unforeseen threats. In a highly interconnected
and increasingly globalized world, there has
never been a more important time than now to
raise awareness.
Unfortunately, America is facing a critical
shortage of people trained in cybersecurity.
There are currently over 300,000 jobs nation-
ally that need to be filled in the cybersecurity
workforce and globally, an expected shortfall
of 1.8 million cybersecurity professionals by
2022. This deficit can easily be filled by Amer-
ican talent and continued commitment to mak-
ing educational resources available early.
In my own district, we are playing our part
by educating the public about what role cyber-
security plays in their everyday lives and how
impactful a career in cybersecurity can be. To
raise awareness of the importance of cyberse-
curity, several of our local colleges along with
CareerSource Brevard, Brevard School Dis-
trict, Economic Development Commission of
Florida’s Space Coast and Florida High Tech
Corridor to name a few, will come together to
discuss the role of cybersecurity in our econ-
omy, in enhancing public safety and national
security.
I ask my colleagues to join me in recog-
nizing National Cybersecurity Career Aware-
ness Week.
f
RECOGNIZING NEIL NEARY FOR
THE 2019 MONTANA CONGRES-
SIONAL VETERAN COMMENDA-
TION
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Neil Neary of Butte for the
Montana Congressional Veteran Commenda-
tion for is service to his country and commit-
ment to the American Legion.
Mr. Neary is a veteran of the U.S. Army and
served during the Korean War. He was a
member of the engineering corps and received
commendations including the Good Conduct
Medal. After his service in the Army, Mr.
Neary brought back his spirit of service to his
community as a member of American Legion
Post 1 in Butte.
As a member of the Montana American Le-
gion for 62 years, Mr. Neary has been an im-
portant figure for the Legion. He served in var-
ious roles over the years and was the Depart-
ment of Montana State Commander for three
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18NO8.006 E18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1460 November 18, 2019
of those years. Mr. Neary’s long service and
leadership in the Montana American Legion
has made him a patriotic role model for many
in his community.
I ask my colleagues to join me today in
commending Neil Neary for his dedication and
commitment.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. WILLIAM R. TIMMONS, IV
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. TIMMONS. Madam Speaker, I missed
votes last week (11/12 through 11/15) due to
full-time military duties with the South Carolina
Air National Guard. Had I been present, I
would have voted:
YEA on Roll Call No. 610; YEA on Roll Call
No. 611; YEA on Roll Call No. 612; YEA on
Roll Call No. 613; YEA on Roll Call No. 614;
NAY on Roll Call No. 615; NAY on Roll Call
No. 616; YEA on Roll Call No. 617; YEA on
Roll Call No. 618; YEA on Roll Call No. 619;
YEA on Roll Call No. 620; YEA on Roll Call
No. 621; YEA on Roll Call No. 622; YEA on
Roll Call No. 623; and NAY on Roll Call No.
624.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JIMMY PANETTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained during the second vote se-
ries on October 22, 2019. Had I been present,
I would have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 578.
f
RECOGNIZING THOMAS PRICE FOR
THE 2019 MONTANA CONGRES-
SIONAL VETERAN COMMENDA-
TION
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Thomas Price of Eureka, a
recipient of the 2019 Montana Congressional
Veteran Commendation for his service to his
country and leadership in his community.
Mr. Price is a veteran of the United States
Navy. He served from 1944 to 1946 on the
USS Missoula APA 211 earning the Pacific 2
Star Award and attaining the rank of Seaman
First Class. He was on board the USS Mis-
soula when the flag was raised on Mount
Suribachi during the Battle of Iwo Jima on
February 23, 1945.
Serving his community, Mr. Price has
worked with special needs children for 25
years. He’s given ten scholarships to local
high school graduating seniors. He’s also
spent many years serving on boards for the
local nursing home and Lincoln County Fair-
grounds. Mr. Price even puts on a weekly
bingo game and donates the proceeds to local
charities throughout his community.
Mr. Price is a humble man who continually
helps others. He has a generous heart and al-
ways blessed the people in his community.
I ask my colleagues to join me today in
commending Thomas Price for his dedication
and service.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on November 13, 2019
during roll call no. 612, On Motion to Suspend
the Rules and Pass, H.R. 3537, Veteran En-
trepreneurship Training Act. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also
unavoidably detained during roll call no. 613,
On Motion to Suspend the Rules and Pass,
H.R. 499, Service-Disabled Veterans Small
Business Continuation Act. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also
unavoidably detained during roll call no. 614,
On Motion to Suspend the Rules and Pass, as
Amended, H.R. 3734, SERV Act. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
HONORING MR. ARTHUR MAX
BACON’S RETIREMENT
HON. DAVID SCOTT
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the career of an
extraordinary Georgian, Mr. Arthur Max
Bacon.
Max Bacon is a lifetime civil servant. He
began his career at his local branch of the
United States Postal Service, only retiring as
the town’s Postmaster in 2006 after 40 years.
For some of that same time, he also served
the citizens of Smyrna on their City Council for
6 years, after which he carried on his father’s
legacy and was elected as the Mayor of Smyr-
na in 1985. When he retires from his post at
the end of this term, he will hold the title of the
longest-serving mayor in the city’s history.
Mayor Bacon is a life-long resident of Smyr-
na’s 15 square miles. He attended Smyrna El-
ementary School and graduated from Camp-
bell High School in 1966. In that time, he has
seen it transform from a small community to a
lively, diverse suburb at the edge of Atlanta in
Cobb County. Since Mayor Bacon began his
tenure as mayor, Smyrna has more than dou-
bled in residency, growing to become the sec-
ond most-populated city in the county. How-
ever, that growth did not come without its
challenges, which Mayor Bacon has maneu-
vered handedly, allowing the city to reinvent
itself over the years.
Through his long span of leadership, Mayor
Bacon has received numerous prestigious
awards. Some highlights of those are: the
1993 Georgia Municipal Association Commu-
nity Leadership Award, the Cobb County 1997
Citizen of the Year from the Marietta Daily
Journal, the 2001 Citizen of the Year Award
from the Smyrna Area Council of the Cobb
County Chamber of Commerce, and the 2015
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Humanitarian
Award by Campbell High School.
Mayor Bacon will be remembered for serv-
ing his tireless efforts to serve his hometown
and improve the lives of its residents. A mark
of a true leader is doing what you think is
right, even if it is not the most politically pop-
ular choice. Throughout his time as the head
of the city of Smyrna, Max Bacon did just that.
He is leaving behind an extraordinary legacy,
and it is only fitting that we commemorate his
contribution to the Smyrna, and the greater
Georgia community.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you join me in
congratulating Max Bacon on his retirement,
and I extend my sincerest wishes for his con-
tinued health and happiness.
May God continue to bless Mr. Arthur Max
Bacon.
f
RECOGNIZING HAROLD RIENSCHE
FOR THE 2019 MONTANA CON-
GRESSIONAL VETERAN COM-
MENDATION
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Harold Riensche Senior of
Reed Point, a recipient of the 2019 Montana
Congressional Veteran Commendation for his
service to his country and leadership in his
community.
Mr. Riensche is a veteran of the United
States Marine Corps. He is a Vietnam veteran
who served in the 3rd Tank Battalion, 3rd Ma-
rine Division earning awards like the Navy
Cross, and attaining the rank of Master Gun-
nery Sergeant.
During the Vietnam War, Mr. Riensche and
his crew were assigned to recover a disabled
tank. During this mission, their vehicle deto-
nated a mine. While repairing their vehicle, the
Marines came under heavy fire. In an instant,
two of Staff Sergeant Riensche’s crew were
killed and two others were wounded leaving
him alone to defend his injured crew and dam-
aged vehicle. With the help of a few grenades
and unmatched bravery, Mr. Riensche was
able to fight off the Northern Vietnamese sol-
diers by himself until backup arrived. His quick
action and heroism saved the lives of his two
fellow Marines.
After completing his military service, Mr.
Riensche served as a member of the Still-
water County Weed control Board and Presi-
dent of the local community landowner’s asso-
ciation. His friends and neighbors say Mr.
Riensche never hesitates to help when asked
upon.
I ask my colleagues to join me today in
commending Harold Riensche Senior for his
dedication and service.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF SHERIFF
STEVE F. DEMPSEY
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Sheriff Steve Dempsey
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K18NO8.007 E18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1461
November 18, 2019
from King George. Steve’s service to his com-
munity goes without question, and I believe he
is worthy of recognition.
Sheriff Dempsey’s extensive training in-
cluded both the Metropolitan Police Academy
in Washington, D.C. where he was K–9 cer-
tified and the FBI Academy where he was
able to learn countless hours of information on
how to handle increasingly difficult situations
ranging from terrorism to financial crime.
Sheriff Dempsey, along with his wife
Charlene and their family, comes from a long
line of public servants—as is evident in Sheriff
Dempsey’s commitment to his community.
Steve was in the Virginia National Guard and
served until 1978. He has been with the King
George County Sheriff’s Department for 39
years, serving as both an officer and a men-
tor. He was the first K–9 officer in the county
and served as a patrol deputy for 7 years.
And, on top of all this, he has taught for al-
most 20 years at the regional academy; pass-
ing on vital experience and lessons to mem-
bers of law enforcement who benefit from his
teachings.
Not stopping there, he served as the Spe-
cial Olympics Chair for the Commonwealth
from 2017 to 2018 and is currently serving as
President of the Virginia Sheriff’s Association.
I am filled with pride to know all the good that
this man has done for his community and our
district.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the accomplishments, hard work,
and dedication of Sheriff Dempsey. Words
alone cannot express our pride, and I am
proud to represent him. May God bless him
and his family.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF RUTH HYMAN
HON. FRANK PALLONE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Ms. Ruth Hyman as she cele-
brates her 100th birthday this year. It is my
honor to join with her family and friends in
marking this incredible milestone and wishing
her many more years of health and happiness.
A lifelong resident of Long Branch, New Jer-
sey, Ms. Hyman was the youngest of eight
children. Her parents, Ida and David Hyman,
were founding members of Congregation
Brothers of Israel and instilled in their children
the importance of hard work and community
service. Throughout her life, Ms. Hyman has
striven to be an active and charitable member
of her community, supporting Congregation
Brothers of Israel, the Visiting Nurse Associa-
tion Health Group, and Jewish and Family
Children’s Services, among many others. In
addition, Ms. Hyman established and operated
a long-running women’s apparel business and
worked as an editor of technical manuals for
the federal government. Her involvement with
numerous local charities and organizations re-
flect her passion to help others and improve
our communities and her success and accom-
plishments serve as an example of what hard
work can attain.
Madam Speaker, I sincerely hope that my
colleagues will join me in honoring Ms. Ruth
Hyman as she celebrates her 100th birthday.
Her generous spirit and impact on the commu-
nity continue to be felt throughout Monmouth
County and New Jersey.
f
RECOGNIZING JAMES WATKINS
FOR THE 2019 MONTANA CON-
GRESSIONAL VETERAN COM-
MENDATION
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize James Watkins of Dillon for
the Montana Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for his service to his country and
his community.
Mr. Watkins served in both the United
States Air Force and Montana Army National
Guard, serving a combined 22 years. Mr. Wat-
kins received multiple commendations during
his service, including the Army Commendation
Medal.
Mr. Watkins has been a member of the
American Legion Post 20 since 1968 and
served in various capacities. Every year, he
coordinated the placement of American Flags
on the graves of veterans on Memorial Day.
Part of this project was his work locating and
arranging the headstones for all veterans in
Dillon Mountain View Cemetery. In addition,
Mr. Watkins makes, maintains, and places the
white crosses for the Montana American Le-
gion White Cross Highway Fatality Marker
Program in Beaverhead County.
I ask my colleagues to join me today in
commending James Watkins of Dillon for his
dedication and service to his country and com-
munity.
f
NEW HOME, NEW BYLAWS, SAME
MISSION: WPAOG HISTORY PART
IV (1996–2019) SECTION B
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to include in the RECORD Section B of the
fourth and final installment of an article by
Keith J. Hamel honoring the 150th Anniversary
of the West Point Association of Graduates:
2009–15: THE FOR US ALL CAMPAIGN BREAKS
RECORDS
‘‘In the summer of 2008, the Association
and the Academy began to consider a new
comprehensive campaign for West Point. The
campaign, called For Us All: The Campaign
for West Point, officially launched in Janu-
ary 2009. By the time the campaign ended on
December 31, 2015, more than $420 million
had been either pledged or received, well ex-
ceeding the original $350 million campaign
goal.
During the For Us All Campaign, WPAOG
continued to achieve new levels of support
for the Academy and the Long Gray Line.
The average of total annual donations to
West Point/WPAOG rose to $40.7 million per
year, more than 40 percent higher than the
average annual donations during the Bicen-
tennial Campaign. More impressively, 58 per-
cent of living alumni made one or more do-
nations. Approximately 50,000 graduates,
families, and friends of West Point partici-
pated in the For Us All Campaign. The prior-
ities for the For Us All Campaign were di-
vided into five areas. With a goal of $200 mil-
lion, the largest category was designated as
‘‘For the Cadets’’ and sought gifts to fund
scholarships (from research through Aca-
demic Individual Advanced Development or
AIAD opportunities), endowments (in sup-
port of academic departments, cadet clubs
and teams), and Academy Centers (e.g., the
Combating Terrorism Center and the Center
for Oral History).
Individuals and classes also committed
gifts to numerous brick and mortar projects,
including the Frederic V. Malek West Point
Visitors Center, the Foley Enners Nathe La-
crosse Center, the West Point Cemetery Col-
umbarium, and more. But, as George Gil-
more ’71, one of the members of the For Us
All Campaign Cabinet said in 2013, ‘‘We will
see the effects of this campaign not in new
buildings or new playing fields but rather in
how well prepared our junior officers arrive
in the Army.’’ Indeed, in a world of increas-
ing threats to the nation’s security, eco-
nomic stability, and fundamental values,
producing leaders of character became more
important than ever, and the For Us All
Campaign, above all, was focused on ensur-
ing that the Academy had the resources
available to fully prepare the next genera-
tion of leaders for the Army and the nation.
Since the For Us All Campaign concluded
in 2015, WPAOG has continued to build on
gains achieved, increasing donations to an
average of $49 million annually and raising
graduate participation to all-time highs,
driven by innovative initiatives such as the
All-Academy Challenge. During this period,
WPAOG has also won the highest awards of
recognition for management practices and
transparency from Charity Navigator (four
stars) and GuideStar (Platinum Seal of
Transparency), and the Development team
has earned ‘‘Overall Performance’’ and ‘‘Sus-
tained Excellence’’ (a five-year award won by
only 16 colleges) in fundraising awards from
the Council for Advancement and Support of
Education (CASE), a 3,700-member global
professional association focused on advanc-
ing education.
FURTHER EXPANDING WPAOG SERVICES
WPAOG continued to expand its Alumni
Support activities and services into the new
millennium as well. Today, WPAOG provides
services to 82 classes, 141 West Point soci-
eties worldwide, and to more than 53,000 indi-
vidual graduates. Since launching in 2011,
WPAOG’s comprehensive reunion services
have also proved popular with graduates: in
2019, WPAOG hosted 29 class reunions for
more than 14,700 returning graduates and
their guests. The WPAOG Gift Shop has
steadily expanded its unique product line
and services to reunion classes, graduates,
cadets and their families, exceeding $1 mil-
lion in annual sales for the first time in 2005,
and recently achieving $2 million in sales.
Profits from the Gift Shop support our alum-
ni services.
In September 2006, AOG premiered a new
award initiative to engage cadets with the
presentation of the inaugural Nininger
Award for Valor at Arms to Major Ryan L.
Worthan ’97. Conceived by E. Doug Kenna ’45
and funded in perpetuity by Kenna and his
wife Jean, the award is named after First
Lieutenant Alexander ‘‘Sandy’’ Nininger ’41,
who was killed in action in the Philippines
during World War II and posthumously re-
ceived the Medal of Honor (the first Amer-
ican army soldier to be so honored in the
war). It is given to a recent graduate who has
displayed heroic action in battle. Like AOG’s
Distinguished Graduate Award, the Nininger
is an award for which the recipient is meant
to be representative of a larger body; in this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO8.013 E18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1462 November 18, 2019
case, of ‘‘all West Point-commissioned offi-
cers who have heroically led Soldiers in com-
bat.’’ However, unlike the DGA, which has
been historically presented to senior mem-
bers of the Long Gray Line, the recipient of
the Nininger Award must be ‘‘a decorated
and relatively recent graduate on Active
Duty,’’ according to the award’s criteria.
‘‘Age is what makes the Nininger Award spe-
cial,’’ said Captain Anthony Fuscellaro ’05,
the 2013 recipient. ‘‘Cadets have an easier
time connecting with the Nininger Award
winners because they could be in their boots
soon and see a lot of the same things they
have seen.’’
There have been four board chairmen, Ted
Stroup ’62, Jodie Glore ’69, Larry Jordan ’68
and the current chair, Joe DeFrancisco ’65,
since the new governance model was adopted
in 2006. These dedicated alumni servants,
along with the WPAOG Board, have provided
WPAOG with strong leadership and oversight
that has allowed for a consistent upward tra-
jectory in its service to both West Point and
the Long Gray Line. Other major initiatives
introduced by WPAOG in the last decade in-
clude the Dettre Memorial Assistance Pro-
gram, started in 2008 upon a donation from
Mrs. Betty Dettre in honor of her late hus-
band, Major General Rexford H. Dettre
’43JAN, which supports graduate burials at
West Point cemetery; comprehensive re-
union support services as previously men-
tioned, which debuted in 2011; and the Rock-
bound Highland Home Program, which
launched in 2017 and offers personal benefits
through its ‘‘Grad Pass,’’ ‘‘Grad Perks,’’ and
‘‘Grad Insider Tour’’ options so that each
graduate who returns to West Point feels
warmly welcomed back. A year later, the
Rockbound Highland Home Program won
two CASE ‘‘Gold’’ Awards in the categories
of ‘‘Alumni Relations’’ and ‘‘Alumni Rela-
tions Events and Affinity Programs.’’
Just recently, WPAOG has unveiled a new,
enhanced Career Services Program, which is
designed to equip all West Point graduates
with the confidence to successfully navigate
each phase of their post-military career
transition; Grad Link, a mobile app which
expands upon the popular ‘‘Find a Grad’’ fea-
ture on WPAOG’s website to offer the easiest
and most powerful way to network with fel-
low grads; and Sallyport, a secure online por-
tal that provides West Point Societies with
three primary services; membership manage-
ment, communications, and event manage-
ment.
PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE
Over the course of its 150-year existence,
the Association of Graduates of the United
States Military Academy has evolved into a
truly one of a kind organization, one that is
simultaneously an independent alumni asso-
ciation serving graduates with services and
programs, and also a foundation that solicits
and manages funds on behalf of the institu-
tion it supports. At many universities, alum-
ni support is a subset of a that school’s de-
velopment operation and staffed by employ-
ees of the school. A few are independent or-
ganizations with their own board of direc-
tors, but they neither solicit nor manage
money for their alma mater.
The delicate balance between the founda-
tion side of AOG and its alumni support op-
erations had been an issue of great concern
for Robert Lamb ’46, Secretary-Treasurer for
AOG (1970–72) and then its first Executive
Vice President (1972–90) in his 1990 essay
‘‘Two Decades of Change,’’ but after review-
ing the last two-plus decades of AOG history
it is clear that the fundraising-fraternal fel-
lowship duality of WPAOG’s evolved nature
has proved symbiotic: the more that bonds
between members of the Long Gray Line are
strengthened by WPAOG, the more grad-
uates support their alma mater; and the
more generously graduates give of their
time, talent, and treasure, the more services
WPAOG is able to offer to help make the
Long Gray Line the most highly connected
alumni body in the world.
With its new expansion of Alumni Support
and communications to keep graduates con-
nected and engaged, today’s WPAOG stands
poised to lead support for both graduates and
West Point well into the 21st century. Or,
going back to Anderson’s original principles
when he proposed the idea of an Association
of Graduates in 1869 in his letter to Thayer:
‘‘to perfect and perpetuate this truly na-
tional institution’’ and ‘‘for the promotion of
social and fraternal intercourse,’’ later re-
solved in the Association’s preliminary
meeting in which he participated.’’
f
RECOGNIZING GEORGE WRIGHT
FOR THE 2019 MONTANA CON-
GRESSIONAL VETERAN COM-
MENDATION
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, November 18, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize George Wright of Laurel for
the Montana Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for his service to our country and
dedication to his community.
Mr. Wright served in the U.S. Army during
World War II, operating construction equip-
ment in order to create infrastructure for fellow
troops. Mr. Wright received multiple com-
mendations for his service, including the
Bronze Star and Good Conduct Medal.
Following his service, Mr. Wright came
home to serve his community. Mr. Wright
owned equipment that made it possible for
him to help fix what was needed, from cars to
roads and much more. He was a fixture on
ranches when roads washed out or cattle
needed rescuing during floods.
I ask my colleagues to join me today in
commending George Wright for his dedication
and service.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, No-
vember 19, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
NOVEMBER 20
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Readiness and Manage-
ment Support
To hold hearings to examine the Depart-
ment of Defense audit.
SR–222
9:35 a.m.
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nation of Sean O’Donnell, of Maryland,
to be Inspector General, Environ-
mental Protection Agency.
SD–406
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
Business meeting to consider S. 2877, to
reauthorize the Terrorism Risk Insur-
ance Act of 2002; to be immediately fol-
lowed by hearings to examine the
nominations of Mitchell A. Silk, of
New York, to be an Assistant Secretary
of the Treasury, Brian D. Montgomery,
of Texas, to be Deputy Secretary, and
David Carey Woll, Jr., of Connecticut,
and John Bobbitt, of Texas, both to be
an Assistant Secretary, all of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, and Peter J. Coniglio, of Vir-
ginia, to be Inspector General, Export-
Import.
SD–538
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine highly auto-
mated vehicles, focusing on Federal
perspectives on the deployment of safe-
ty technology.
SH–216
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Stephen Hahn, of Texas, to be
Commissioner of Food and Drugs, De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices.
SD–430
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To hold hearings to examine Russian in-
fluence in Belarus.
RHOB–2200
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Stephen E. Biegun, of Michigan,
to be Deputy Secretary of State.
SD–419
2 p.m.
Committee on Finance
Subcommittee on Health Care
To hold hearings to examine Alzheimer’s
awareness, focusing on barriers to diag-
nosis, treatment, and care coordina-
tion.
SD–215
Committee on Foreign Relations
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of Roxanne Cabral, of Virginia,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of
the Marshall Islands, Carmen G. Can-
tor, of Puerto Rico, to be Ambassador
to the Federated States of Micronesia,
Kelley Eckels Currie, of Georgia, to be
Ambassador at Large for Global Wom-
en’s Issues, Kelly C. Degnan, of Cali-
fornia, to be Ambassador to Georgia,
Michael George DeSombre, of Illinois,
to be Ambassador to the Kingdom of
Thailand, David T. Fischer, of Michi-
gan, to be Ambassador to the Kingdom
of Morocco, Robert S. Gilchrist, of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18NO8.015 E18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1463
November 18, 2019
Florida, to be Ambassador to the Re-
public of Lithuania, Peter M.
Haymond, of Virginia, to be Ambas-
sador to the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Sung Y. Kim, of California,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of
Indonesia, Yuri Kim, of Guam, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of Alba-
nia, Alina L. Romanowski, of Illinois,
to be Ambassador to the State of Ku-
wait, John Joseph Sullivan, of Mary-
land, to be Ambassador to the Russian
Federation, Morse H. Tan, of Illinois,
to be Ambassador at Large for Global
Criminal Justice, and Leslie Meredith
Tsou, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to
the Sultanate of Oman, all of the De-
partment of State, Andeliz N. Castillo,
of New York, to be United States Alter-
nate Executive Director of the Inter-
American Development Bank, Alma L.
Golden, of Texas, to be an Assistant
Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development,
and a routine list in the Foreign Serv-
ice.
S–116
2:15 p.m.
Joint Economic Committee
To hold hearings to examine connecting
more people to work.
SD–106
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
To hold closed hearings to examine im-
plementation of the 2018 Department of
Defense Cyber Strategy.
SVC–217
Committee on Foreign Relations
Subcommittee on Multilateral Inter-
national Development, Multilateral In-
stitutions, and International Eco-
nomic, Energy, and Environmental
Policy
To hold hearings to examine challenges
and opportunities for advancing United
States interests in the United Nations
system.
SD–419
Committee on Indian Affairs
Business meeting to consider S. 227, to
direct the Attorney General to review,
revise, and develop law enforcement
and justice protocols appropriate to ad-
dress missing and murdered Indians,
and S. 982, to increase intergovern-
mental coordination to identify and
combat violent crime within Indian
lands and of Indians; to be immediately
followed by an oversight hearing to ex-
amine honoring a nation’s promise to
Native veterans, including S. 1001, to
amend the Indian Health Care Improve-
ment Act to allow the Indian Health
Service to cover the cost of a copay-
ment of an Indian or Alaska Native
veteran receiving medical care or serv-
ices from the Department of Veterans
Affairs, and S. 2365, to amend the In-
dian Health Care Improvement Act to
authorize urban Indian organizations
to enter into arrangements for the
sharing of medical services and facili-
ties.
SD–628
3 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and
Capabilities
To hold hearings to examine biological
threats to United States national secu-
rity.
SR–222
NOVEMBER 21
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine Federal
payments to local governments pro-
vided through the Secure Rural
Schools and Payments in Lieu of Taxes
programs, including S. 430, to extend
the Secure Rural Schools and Commu-
nity Self-Determination Act of 2000, S.
1643, to amend title 36, United States
Code, to grant a Federal charter to the
Forest and Refuge County Foundation,
to provide for the establishment of the
Natural Resources Permanent Fund,
and S. 2108, to amend section 6903 of
title 31, United States Code, to provide
for additional population tiers.
SD–366
Committee on the Judiciary
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of Patrick J. Bumatay, of Cali-
fornia, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Lawrence
VanDyke, of Nevada, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit, Philip M. Halpern, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern
District of New York, Bernard Maurice
Jones II, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Okla-
homa, and Barbara Bailey Jongbloed,
to be United States District Judge for
the District of Connecticut.
SD–226
11 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Financial Services and
General Government
To hold an oversight hearing examine
the Federal Communications Commis-
sion, focusing on the spectrum auc-
tions program.
SD–138
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To hold closed hearings to examine cer-
tain intelligence matters.
SH–219
DECEMBER 3
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine testimony
from the Government Accountability
Office on privatized housing findings to
include responses from the military
services on ongoing reports of sub-
standard housing conditions and serv-
ices.
SD–G50
9:45 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the future
of United States policy towards Russia.
SD–419
DECEMBER 4
10 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
To hold a joint hearing with the Sub-
committee on Readiness and Manage-
ment to examine United States Navy
ship and submarine maintenance.
SD–106
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Personnel
To hold hearings to examine testimony
about servicemember, family, and vet-
eran suicides and prevention strate-
gies.
SR–222
DECEMBER 11
10 a.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine the Inspec-
tor General’s report on alleged abuses
of the Foreign Intelligence Surveil-
lance Act.
SD–226
POSTPONEMENTS
NOVEMBER 20
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
To receive a closed briefing on Navy air-
craft carrier survivability.
SVC–217
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:23 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M18NO8.000 E18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1258
Monday, November 18, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6615–S6629
Measures Introduced: Twelve bills and two resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 2879–2890, and
S. Res. 428–429. Page S6625
Measures Reported:
S. 764, to provide for congressional approval of
national emergency declarations, with an amendment
in the nature of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–159)
Page S6625
Measures Passed:
Repealing Existing Substandard Provisions En-
couraging Conciliation with Tribes Act: Senate
passed S. 2071, to repeal certain obsolete laws relat-
ing to Indians. Pages S6628–29
Senate Chamber Photos and Filming: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 428, authorizing the taking of pic-
tures and filming in the Chamber of the Senate for
use by the Capitol Visitor Center. Pages S6627, S6629
Luck Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Robert J. Luck,
of Florida, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Eleventh Circuit. Pages S6618–19
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 61 yeas to 30 nays (Vote No. EX. 357), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S6619
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday,
November 19, 2019, with the post-cloture time ex-
piring at 2:15 p.m. Page S6629
Messages from the House: Page S6622
Measures Referred: Page S6622
Executive Communications: Pages S6622–24
Petitions and Memorials: Pages S6624–25
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S6625
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6625–27
Additional Statements: Pages S6621–22
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S6628
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—357) Page S6619
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 6:28 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, No-
vember 19, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S6629.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee ordered favorably reported the
nomination of Peter Gaynor, of Rhode Island, to be
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, Department of Homeland Security.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Rules and Administration: Committee or-
dered favorably reported the nomination of Hugh
Nathanial Halpern, of Virginia, to be Director of the
Government Publishing Office.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:53 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18NO9.REC D18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1259
November 18, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 21 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 5133–5153; and 2 resolutions, H.
Res. 709–710 were introduced. Page H8958
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H8959–60
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 1309, to direct the Secretary of Labor to
issue an occupational safety and health standard that
requires covered employers within the health care
and social service industries to develop and imple-
ment a comprehensive workplace violence prevention
plan, and for other purposes, with an amendment
(H. Rept. 116–296, Part 1); and
H. Res. 708, providing for consideration of the
Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 3055) making
appropriations for the Departments of Commerce
and Justice, Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes (H. Rept. 116–297). Pages H8957–58
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Gomez to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H8911
Recess: The House recessed at 12:18 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H8913
Recess: The House recessed at 2:04 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4:17 p.m. Page H8913
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Reforming Disaster Recovery Act of 2019: H.R.
3702, amended, to authorize the Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development to provide disaster as-
sistance to States, Puerto Rico, units of general local
government, and Indian tribes under a community
development block grant disaster recovery program,
by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 290 yeas to 118 nays,
Roll No. 625; Pages H8914–26, H8939–40
Tribal Access to Homeless Assistance Act: H.R.
4029, amended, to amend the McKinney-Vento
Homeless Assistance Act to enable Indian Tribes and
tribally designated housing entities to apply for, re-
ceive, and administer grants and subgrants under the
Continuum of Care Program of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development; Pages H8926–27
Amending the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
to allow the Securities and Exchange Commission
to seek and Federal courts to grant disgorgement of
unjust enrichment: H.R. 4344, amended, to amend
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to allow the Se-
curities and Exchange Commission to seek and Fed-
eral courts to grant disgorgement of unjust enrich-
ment, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 314 yeas to 95
nays, Roll No. 627; Pages H8929–32, H8941–42
Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2019: H.R. 4634, amended, to reauthor-
ize the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, by a
2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 385 yeas to 22 nays, Roll
No. 626; and Pages H8932–37, H8940–41
Fostering Stable Housing Opportunities Act of
2019: H.R. 4300, amended, to provide Federal hous-
ing assistance on behalf of youths who are aging out
of foster care. Pages H8937–39
Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force
Academy—Appointment: The Chair announced
the Speaker’s appointment of the following Member
on the part of the House to the Board of Visitors
to the United States Air Force Academy: Representa-
tive Lamborn. Page H8942
Suspension—Proceedings Postponed: The House
debated the following measure under suspension of
the rules. Further proceedings were postponed.
Improving Corporate Governance Through Di-
versity Act of 2019: H.R. 5084, to amend the Secu-
rities Exchange Act of 1934 to require the submis-
sion by issuers of data relating to diversity.
Pages H8927–29
Senate Referral: S. 2099 was referred to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources. Pages H8955–56
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H8913.
Quorum Calls—Votes:Three yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H8940, H8940–41, and H8941. There
were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 9:11 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:53 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18NO9.REC D18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1260 November 18, 2019
Committee Meetings
SENATE AMENDMENT TO COMMERCE,
JUSTICE, SCIENCE, AGRICULTURE, RURAL
DEVELOPMENT, FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION, INTERIOR,
ENVIRONMENT, TRANSPORTATION, AND
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
the Senate Amendment to H.R. 3055, the ‘‘Com-
merce, Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment, Food and Drug Administration, Interior, En-
vironment, Transportation, and Housing and Urban
Development Appropriations Act, 2020’’ [Further
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2020, and Further
Health Extenders Act of 2019]. The Committee
granted, by nonrecord vote, a rule providing for con-
sideration of the Senate Amendment to H.R. 3055,
the ‘‘Commerce, Justice, Science, Agriculture, Rural
Development, Food and Drug Administration, Inte-
rior, Environment, Transportation, and Housing and
Urban Development Appropriations Act, 2020’’. The
rule makes in order a motion offered by the chair of
the Committee on Appropriations or her designee
that the House concur in the Senate amendment
with an amendment inserting the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–38, in lieu of the matter pro-
posed to be inserted by the Senate. The rule waives
all points of order against consideration of the mo-
tion. The rule provides that the Senate amendment
and the motion shall be considered as read. Finally,
the rule provides one hour of debate on the motion
equally divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee on Ap-
propriations. Testimony was heard from Chairman
Lowey and Representative Granger.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
NOVEMBER 19, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: business
meeting to consider S. 242, to require the Secretary of
Agriculture to release reversionary and reserved interests
in certain land in the Coconino National Forest in the
State of Arizona, S. 258, to prohibit oil and gas leasing
on the National Forest System land in the Ruby Moun-
tains Ranger District located in the Humboldt-Toiyabe
National Forest, Elko and White Pine Counties, Nevada,
S. 500, to amend title 54, United States Code, to estab-
lish, fund, and provide for the use of amounts in a Na-
tional Park Service Legacy Restoration Fund to address
the maintenance backlog of the National Park Service, S.
876, to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to require
the Secretary of Energy to establish a program to prepare
veterans for careers in the energy industry, including the
solar, wind, cybersecurity, and other low-carbon emissions
sectors or zero-emissions sectors of the energy industry, S.
1079, to provide for the withdrawal and protection of
certain Federal land in the State of New Mexico, S. 1081,
to amend title 54, United States Code, to provide perma-
nent, dedicated funding for the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund, S. 1262, to designate certain land admin-
istered by the Bureau of Land Management and the For-
est Service in the State of Oregon as wilderness and na-
tional recreation areas, to withdraw certain land located
in Curry County and Josephine County, Oregon, from all
forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the pub-
lic land laws, location, entry, and patent under the min-
ing laws, and operation under the mineral leasing and
geothermal leasing laws, S. 1739, to enable projects that
will aid in the development and delivery of related in-
struction associated with apprenticeship and
preapprenticeship programs that are focused on serving
the skilled technical workforce at the National Labora-
tories and certain facilities of the National Nuclear Secu-
rity Administration, S. 2368, to amend the Atomic En-
ergy Act of 1954 and the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to
support licensing and relicensing of certain nuclear facili-
ties and nuclear energy research, demonstration, and de-
velopment, S. 2418, to amend the Gulf of Mexico Energy
Security Act of 2006 to modify a definition and the dis-
position and authorized uses of qualified outer Conti-
nental Shelf revenues under that Act and to exempt State
and county payments under that Act from sequestration,
to provide for the distribution of certain outer Conti-
nental Shelf revenues to the State of Alaska, S. 2425, to
amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to estab-
lish the CHP Technical Assistance Partnership Program,
S. 2508, to require the Secretary of Energy to establish
a council to conduct a survey and analysis of the employ-
ment figures and demographics in the energy, energy effi-
ciency, and motor vehicle sectors of the United States, S.
2556, to amend the Federal Power Act to provide energy
cybersecurity investment incentives, to establish a grant
and technical assistance program for cybersecurity invest-
ments, S. 2657, to support innovation in advanced geo-
thermal research and development, S. 2668, to establish
a program for research, development, and demonstration
of solar energy technologies, S. 2688, to amend the En-
ergy Policy Act of 2005 to establish an Office of Tech-
nology Transitions, S. 2702, to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish an integrated energy systems research,
development, and demonstration, S. 2714, to amend the
America COMPETES Act to reauthorize the ARPA–E
program, S. 2799, to require the Secretary of Energy and
the Secretary of the Interior to establish a joint Nexus of
Energy and Water Sustainability Office, and the nomina-
tions of Dan R. Brouillette, of Texas, to be Secretary of
Energy, James P. Danly, of Tennessee, to be a Member
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:53 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18NO9.REC D18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1261
November 18, 2019
of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and Kath-
arine MacGregor, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Secretary
of the Interior, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine S. 1087, to amend the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act to make changes with respect to
water quality certification, and state perspectives on other
potential reforms to the implementation of Section 401
of the Clean Water Act, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, to hold hear-
ings to examine securing the United States research enter-
prise from China’s talent recruitment plans, 10 a.m.,
SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold an oversight hearing
to examine the Federal Bureau of Prisons, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to receive a closed brief-
ing on certain intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee on Commodity
Exchanges, Energy and Credit, hearing entitled ‘‘Review
of Credit Conditions: Report from the Farm Credit Ad-
ministration (FCA)’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Oversight and Department Oper-
ations, hearing entitled ‘‘Review of the Office of the As-
sistant Secretary for Civil Rights’’, 2 p.m., 1300 Long-
worth.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Full Committee,
markup on legislation on the Safe, Accountable, Fair, and
Environmentally Responsible Pipeline Act of 2019; H.R.
2339, the ‘‘Reversing the Youth Tobacco Epidemic Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 4995, the ‘‘Maternal Health Quality Im-
provement Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4996, the ‘‘Helping Med-
icaid Offer Maternity Services Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1603,
the ‘‘Alan Reinstein Ban Asbestos Now Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 535, the ‘‘PFAS Action Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2699,
the ‘‘Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3851, the ‘‘Brand USA Extension Act’’; H.R. 4779,
to extend the Undertaking Spam, Spyware, And Fraud
Enforcement With Enforcers beyond Borders Act of
2006, and for other purposes; H.R. 4229, the
‘‘Broadband Deployment Accuracy and Technological
Availability Act’’; H.R. 4227, the ‘‘Mapping Accuracy
Promotes Services Act’’; H.R. 5000, the ‘‘SHARE Act’’;
H.R. 4998, the ‘‘Secure and Trusted Communications
Networks Act’’; H.R. 4461, the ‘‘Network Security Infor-
mation Sharing Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2881, the ‘‘Secure
5G and Beyond Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4500, the ‘‘Pro-
moting United States Wireless Leadership Act of 2019’’;
H. Res. 575, expressing the sense of the House of Rep-
resentatives that all stakeholders in the deployment of 5G
communications infrastructure should carefully consider
and adhere to the recommendation of ‘‘The Prague Pro-
posals’’; and H.R. 5035, the ‘‘Television Viewer Protec-
tion Act’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘America for Sale? An Examination of the Prac-
tices of Private Funds’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Africa,
Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International
Organizations, hearing entitled ‘‘FY2020 Budget and
U.S.-Africa Relations’’, 10 a.m., 2200 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, Energy, and the En-
vironment, hearing entitled ‘‘The Importance of the Open
Skies Treaty’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Middle East, North Africa, and
International Terrorism, hearing entitled ‘‘What’s Next
for Lebanon? Examining the Implications of Current Pro-
tests’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Bor-
der Security, Facilitation, and Operations, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Examining the Human Rights and Legal Implica-
tions of DHS ‘Remain in Mexico’ Policy’’, 10 a.m., 310
Cannon.
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protec-
tion, and Innovation, hearing entitled ‘‘The Road to
2020: Defending Against Election Interference’’, 2 p.m.,
310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Courts, In-
tellectual Property, and the Internet, hearing entitled
‘‘The Patent Trial and Appeal Board and the Appoint-
ments Clause: Implications of Recent Court Decisions’’, 2
p.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee for Indig-
enous Peoples of the United States, hearing entitled ‘‘Re-
viewing the Broken Promises Report: Examining the
Chronic Federal Funding Shortfalls in Indian Country’’,
10 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on En-
vironment, hearing entitled ‘‘Toxic, Forever Chemicals: A
Call for Immediate Federal Action on PFAS’’, 2 p.m.,
2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on National Security, hearing entitled
‘‘The Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency: Bringing
Our Nation’s Heroes Home’’, 2 p.m., 2247 Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
1309, the ‘‘Workplace Violence Prevention for Health
Care and Social Service Workers Act’’, 3 p.m., H–313
Capitol.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Con-
tracting and Infrastructure, hearing entitled ‘‘Smart Con-
struction: Increasing Opportunities for Small Businesses
in Infrastructure’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Water Resources and Environment, hearing
entitled ‘‘Concepts for the Next Water Resources Devel-
opment Act: Promoting Resiliency of our Nation’s Water
Resources Infrastructure’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Eco-
nomic Opportunity, hearing entitled ‘‘Further Examining
Forever GI Bill Implementation Efforts’’, 10 a.m.,
HVC–210.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Impeachment Inquiry: Ms. Wil-
liams and Lt. Col. Vindman’’, 9 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Impeachment In-
quiry: Ambassador Volker and Mr. Morrison’’, 2:30 p.m.,
1100 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:53 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18NO9.REC D18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1262 November 18, 2019
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to hold
a joint hearing with the House Committee on Foreign
Affairs Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, Energy, and
the Environment to examine the importance of the Open
Skies Treaty, 10 a.m., 2172, Rayburn Building.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of November 19 through
November 22, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the nomination of Robert J. Luck, of Florida, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit,
post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the nomi-
nation at 2:15 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Robert
J. Luck, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the nomination of Barbara Lagoa, of Flor-
ida, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Elev-
enth Circuit.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Appropriations: November 21, Sub-
committee on Financial Services and General Govern-
ment, to hold an oversight hearing examine the Federal
Communications Commission, focusing on the spectrum
auctions program, 11 a.m., SD–138.
Committee on Armed Services: November 20, Sub-
committee on Readiness and Management Support, to
hold hearings to examine the Department of Defense
audit, 9:30 a.m., SR–222.
November 20, Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, to hold
closed hearings to examine implementation of the 2018
Department of Defense Cyber Strategy, 2:30 p.m.,
SVC–217.
November 20, Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and
Capabilities, to hold hearings to examine biological
threats to United States national security, 3 p.m.,
SR–222.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: No-
vember 20, business meeting to consider S. 2877, to re-
authorize the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002; to
be immediately followed by hearings to examine the
nominations of Mitchell A. Silk, of New York, to be an
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, Brian D. Mont-
gomery, of Texas, to be Deputy Secretary, and David
Carey Woll, Jr., of Connecticut, and John Bobbitt, of
Texas, both to be an Assistant Secretary, all of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development, and Peter
J. Coniglio, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Export-
Import, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: No-
vember 20, to hold hearings to examine highly auto-
mated vehicles, focusing on Federal perspectives on the
deployment of safety technology, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: November
19, business meeting to consider S. 242, to require the
Secretary of Agriculture to release reversionary and re-
served interests in certain land in the Coconino National
Forest in the State of Arizona, S. 258, to prohibit oil and
gas leasing on the National Forest System land in the
Ruby Mountains Ranger District located in the Hum-
boldt-Toiyabe National Forest, Elko and White Pine
Counties, Nevada, S. 500, to amend title 54, United
States Code, to establish, fund, and provide for the use
of amounts in a National Park Service Legacy Restoration
Fund to address the maintenance backlog of the National
Park Service, S. 876, to amend the Energy Policy Act of
2005 to require the Secretary of Energy to establish a
program to prepare veterans for careers in the energy in-
dustry, including the solar, wind, cybersecurity, and other
low-carbon emissions sectors or zero-emissions sectors of
the energy industry, S. 1079, to provide for the with-
drawal and protection of certain Federal land in the State
of New Mexico, S. 1081, to amend title 54, United
States Code, to provide permanent, dedicated funding for
the Land and Water Conservation Fund, S. 1262, to des-
ignate certain land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management and the Forest Service in the State of Or-
egon as wilderness and national recreation areas, to with-
draw certain land located in Curry County and Josephine
County, Oregon, from all forms of entry, appropriation,
or disposal under the public land laws, location, entry,
and patent under the mining laws, and operation under
the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing laws, S. 1739,
to enable projects that will aid in the development and
delivery of related instruction associated with apprentice-
ship and preapprenticeship programs that are focused on
serving the skilled technical workforce at the National
Laboratories and certain facilities of the National Nuclear
Security Administration, S. 2368, to amend the Atomic
Energy Act of 1954 and the Energy Policy Act of 2005
to support licensing and relicensing of certain nuclear fa-
cilities and nuclear energy research, demonstration, and
development, S. 2418, to amend the Gulf of Mexico En-
ergy Security Act of 2006 to modify a definition and the
disposition and authorized uses of qualified outer Conti-
nental Shelf revenues under that Act and to exempt State
and county payments under that Act from sequestration,
to provide for the distribution of certain outer Conti-
nental Shelf revenues to the State of Alaska, S. 2425, to
amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to estab-
lish the CHP Technical Assistance Partnership Program,
S. 2508, to require the Secretary of Energy to establish
a council to conduct a survey and analysis of the employ-
ment figures and demographics in the energy, energy effi-
ciency, and motor vehicle sectors of the United States, S.
2556, to amend the Federal Power Act to provide energy
cybersecurity investment incentives, to establish a grant
and technical assistance program for cybersecurity invest-
ments, S. 2657, to support innovation in advanced geo-
thermal research and development, S. 2668, to establish
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:53 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18NO9.REC D18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1263
November 18, 2019
a program for research, development, and demonstration
of solar energy technologies, S. 2688, to amend the En-
ergy Policy Act of 2005 to establish an Office of Tech-
nology Transitions, S. 2702, to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish an integrated energy systems research,
development, and demonstration, S. 2714, to amend the
America COMPETES Act to reauthorize the ARPA–E
program, S. 2799, to require the Secretary of Energy and
the Secretary of the Interior to establish a joint Nexus of
Energy and Water Sustainability Office, and the nomina-
tions of Dan R. Brouillette, of Texas, to be Secretary of
Energy, James P. Danly, of Tennessee, to be a Member
of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and Kath-
arine MacGregor, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Secretary
of the Interior, 10 a.m., SD–366.
November 21, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine Federal payments to local governments provided
through the Secure Rural Schools and Payments in Lieu
of Taxes programs, including S. 430, to extend the Secure
Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of
2000, S. 1643, to amend title 36, United States Code,
to grant a Federal charter to the Forest and Refuge Coun-
ty Foundation, to provide for the establishment of the
Natural Resources Permanent Fund, and S. 2108, to
amend section 6903 of title 31, United States Code, to
provide for additional population tiers, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: November
19, to hold hearings to examine S. 1087, to amend the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act to make changes
with respect to water quality certification, and state per-
spectives on other potential reforms to the implementa-
tion of Section 401 of the Clean Water Act, 10 a.m.,
SD–406.
November 20, Full Committee, business meeting to
consider the nomination of Sean O’Donnell, of Maryland,
to be Inspector General, Environmental Protection Agen-
cy, 9:35 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Finance: November 20, Subcommittee on
Health Care, to hold hearings to examine Alzheimer’s
awareness, focusing on barriers to diagnosis, treatment,
and care coordination, 2 p.m., SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: November 20, to hold
hearings to examine the nomination of Stephen E.
Biegun, of Michigan, to be Deputy Secretary of State,
10:15 a.m., SD–419.
November 20, Full Committee, business meeting to
consider the nominations of Roxanne Cabral, of Virginia,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of the Marshall Is-
lands, Carmen G. Cantor, of Puerto Rico, to be Ambas-
sador to the Federated States of Micronesia, Kelley Eckels
Currie, of Georgia, to be Ambassador at Large for Global
Women’s Issues, Kelly C. Degnan, of California, to be
Ambassador to Georgia, Michael George DeSombre, of Il-
linois, to be Ambassador to the Kingdom of Thailand,
David T. Fischer, of Michigan, to be Ambassador to the
Kingdom of Morocco, Robert S. Gilchrist, of Florida, to
be Ambassador to the Republic of Lithuania, Peter M.
Haymond, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to the Lao Peo-
ple’s Democratic Republic, Sung Y. Kim, of California,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of Indonesia, Yuri
Kim, of Guam, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Al-
bania, Alina L. Romanowski, of Illinois, to be Ambas-
sador to the State of Kuwait, John Joseph Sullivan, of
Maryland, to be Ambassador to the Russian Federation,
Morse H. Tan, of Illinois, to be Ambassador at Large for
Global Criminal Justice, and Leslie Meredith Tsou, of
Virginia, to be Ambassador to the Sultanate of Oman, all
of the Department of State, Andeliz N. Castillo, of New
York, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of
the Inter-American Development Bank, Alma L. Golden,
of Texas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United
States Agency for International Development, and a rou-
tine list in the Foreign Service, 2 p.m., S–116, Capitol.
November 20, Subcommittee on Multilateral Inter-
national Development, Multilateral Institutions, and
International Economic, Energy, and Environmental Pol-
icy, to hold hearings to examine challenges and opportu-
nities for advancing United States interests in the United
Nations system, 2:30 p.m., SD–419.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: No-
vember 20, to hold hearings to examine the nomination
of Stephen Hahn, of Texas, to be Commissioner of Food
and Drugs, Department of Health and Human Services,
10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
November 19, Permanent Subcommittee on Investiga-
tions, to hold hearings to examine securing the United
States research enterprise from China’s talent recruitment
plans, 10 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: November 20, business
meeting to consider S. 227, to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral to review, revise, and develop law enforcement and
justice protocols appropriate to address missing and mur-
dered Indians, and S. 982, to increase intergovernmental
coordination to identify and combat violent crime within
Indian lands and of Indians; to be immediately followed
by an oversight hearing to examine honoring a nation’s
promise to Native veterans, including S. 1001, to amend
the Indian Health Care Improvement Act to allow the In-
dian Health Service to cover the cost of a copayment of
an Indian or Alaska Native veteran receiving medical care
or services from the Department of Veterans Affairs, and
S. 2365, to amend the Indian Health Care Improvement
Act to authorize urban Indian organizations to enter into
arrangements for the sharing of medical services and fa-
cilities, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: November 19, to hold an
oversight hearing to examine the Federal Bureau of Pris-
ons, 10 a.m., SD–226.
November 21, Full Committee, business meeting to
consider the nominations of Patrick J. Bumatay, of Cali-
fornia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, Lawrence VanDyke, of Nevada, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Philip M.
Halpern, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of New York, Bernard Maurice Jones
II, to be United States District Judge for the Western
District of Oklahoma, and Barbara Bailey Jongbloed, to
be United States District Judge for the District of Con-
necticut, 10 a.m., SD–226.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:53 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18NO9.REC D18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1264 November 18, 2019
Select Committee on Intelligence: November 19, to receive
a closed briefing on certain intelligence matters, 2:30
p.m., SH–219.
November 21, Full Committee, to hold closed hearings
to examine certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House Committees
Committee on Appropriations, November 20, Sub-
committee on Energy and Water Development, and Re-
lated Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘The Department of En-
ergy’s Role in Addressing Climate Change’’, 10 a.m.,
2362–B Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, November 20, Sub-
committee on Intelligence and Emerging Threats and Ca-
pabilities, hearing entitled ‘‘Climate Change in the Era of
Strategic Competition’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
November 21, Subcommittee on Readiness, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Department of Defense Organic Industrial
Base: Challenges, Solutions and Readiness Impacts’’, 9
a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, November 20, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Reexamining the Economic Costs of
Debt’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Education and Labor, November 20, Sub-
committee on Higher Education and Workforce Invest-
ment, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Policies and Pri-
orities of the Labor Department’s Apprenticeship Pro-
gram’’, 2 p.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, November 20, Sub-
committee on Environment and Climate Change, hearing
entitled ‘‘Building a 100 Percent Clean Economy: The
Challenges Facing Frontline Communities’’, 10 a.m.,
2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, November 20, Sub-
committee on Consumer Protection and Financial Institu-
tions, hearing entitled ‘‘An Examination of Regulators’
Efforts to Preserve and Promote Minority Depository In-
stitutions’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
November 20, Subcommittee on Housing, Community
Development, and Insurance, hearing entitled ‘‘Safe and
Decent? Examining the Current State of Residents’
Health and Safety in HUD Housing’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Ray-
burn.
November 21, Task Force on Financial Technology,
hearing entitled ‘‘Banking on Your Data: The Role of
Big Data in Financial Services’’, 9:30 a.m., 2128 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Homeland Security, November 20, Full
Committee, markup on A Resolution Offered by Chair-
man Bennie G. Thompson Authorizing Issuance of Sub-
poena on documents related to U.S. Customs and Border
Protection Operations, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on House Administration, November 21, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day: Committee
on House Administration’’, 8:30 a.m., 1310 Longworth.
Committee on the Judiciary, November 20, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 5038, the ‘‘Farm Workforce
Modernization Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3884, the ‘‘Marijuana
Opportunity Reinvestment and Expungement Act of
2019’’; legislation on the Satellite Television Community
Protection and Promotion Act of 2019; H.R. 3991, the
‘‘Affordable Prescriptions for Patients Through Improve-
ments to Patent Litigation Act of 2019’’; and legislation
on the Affordable Prescriptions for Patients Through Pro-
moting Competition Act of 2019, 10 a.m., 2141 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Natural Resources, November 20, Full
Committee, markup on H.R. 1708, the ‘‘Rim of the Val-
ley Corridor Preservation Act’’; H.R. 2199, the ‘‘Central
Coast Heritage Protection Act’’; H.R. 2215, the ‘‘San Ga-
briel Mountains Foothills and Rivers Protection Act’’;
H.R. 2250, the ‘‘Northwest California Wilderness, Recre-
ation, and Working Forests Act’’; H.R. 2546, the ‘‘Colo-
rado Wilderness Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2642, the ‘‘Wild
Olympics Wilderness and Wild and Scenic Rivers Act’’;
H.R. 2854, the ‘‘Protect Our Refuges Act of 2019’’; and
S. 216, the ‘‘Spokane Tribe of Indians of the Spokane
Reservation Equitable Compensation Act’’, 10 a.m., 1324
Longworth.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, November 20,
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Fighting Flu, Saving
Lives: Vaccine Science and Innovation’’, 10 a.m., 2318
Rayburn.
November 20, Subcommittee on Environment, hearing
entitled ‘‘A Task of EPIC Proportions: Reclaiming U.S.
Leadership in Weather Modeling and Prediction’’, 2 p.m.,
2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, November 20, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 5078, the ‘‘Prison to Proprietor-
ship Act’’; H.R. 5065, the ‘‘Prison to Proprietorship for
Formerly Incarcerated Act’’; legislation on the Capturing
All Small Businesses Act of 2019; and legislation on the
Unlocking Opportunities for Small Businesses Act of
2019, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, November
20, Full Committee, markup on H.R. 5120, the ‘‘SAFER
Pipelines Act of 2019’’; H.R. 5047, to require the Ad-
ministrator of General Services to conduct an annual
audit of properties leased to private parties, and for other
purposes; legislation on the Stop Sexual Assault and Har-
assment in Transportation Act; and H.R. 5119, to amend
title 49, United States Code, to require certain air carriers
to provide reports with respect to maintenance, preventa-
tive maintenance, or alterations, and for other purposes,
10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, November 20, Full Com-
mittee, hearing on H.R. 3495 and legislation to establish
a pilot program for the issuance of grants to eligible enti-
ties, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
November 20, Subcommittee on Technology Mod-
ernization, hearing entitled ‘‘Go-Live March 2020: The
Status of EHRM Readiness’’, 2 p.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, November 20, Sub-
committee on Trade, hearing entitled ‘‘U.S.-Japan Trade
Agreements’’, 10 a.m., 2020 Rayburn.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, November 20,
Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Impeachment Inquiry:
Ambassador Sondland’’, 9 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
November 20, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Im-
peachment Inquiry: Ms. Cooper and Mr. Hale’’, 2:30
p.m., 1100 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:53 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18NO9.REC D18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1265
November 18, 2019
November 21, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Im-
peachment Inquiry: Dr. Hill and Mr. Holmes’’, 9 a.m.,
1100 Longworth.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, November 20, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Creating a Climate Resil-
ient America: Reducing Risks and Costs’’, 1:30 p.m.,
1334 Longworth.
Joint Meetings
Joint Economic Committee: November 20, to hold hear-
ings to examine connecting more people to work, 2:15
p.m., SD–106.
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Novem-
ber 19, to hold a joint hearing with the House Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Europe, Eur-
asia, Energy, and the Environment to examine the impor-
tance of the Open Skies Treaty, 10 a.m., 2172, Rayburn
Building.
November 20, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine Russian influence in Belarus, 10 a.m., 2200, Ray-
burn Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:53 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18NO9.REC D18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1266 November 18, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, November 19
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Robert J. Luck, of Florida, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit,
post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the nomination
at 2:15 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Robert J.
Luck, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke cloture
on the nomination of Barbara Lagoa, of Florida, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, November 19
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of measures under
suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Diaz-Balart, Mario, Fla., E1458
Fulcher, Russ, Idaho, E1459
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E1457, E1458, E1458, E1459,
E1459, E1460, E1460, E1461, E1462
Kuster, Ann M., N.H., E1458
McEachin, A. Donald, Va., E1460
Pallone, Frank, Jr., N.J., E1457, E1461
Panetta, Jimmy, Calif., E1460
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E1457
Posey, Bill, Fla., E1459
Pressley, Ayanna, Mass., E1458
Raskin, Jamie, Md., E1457
Scott, David, Ga., E1460
Shimkus, John, Ill., E1461
Timmons, William R., IV, S.C., E1460
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E1459
Trahan, Lori, Mass., E1458
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E1460
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:53 Nov 19, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D18NO9.REC D18NOPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
