Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H7839
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019 No. 152
Senate
The Senate was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Monday, September 23, 2019, at 3 p.m.
House of Representatives
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 2019
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
God of all creation, thank You for
giving us another day. At the end of a
very busy week, we ask Your blessing
upon the Members of this people’s
House. As they face a rare short week-
end, may they be refreshed so as to re-
turn for a busy week to address the sa-
lient issues of these days.
We ask Your blessing today for the
people in and around Houston, who
again find themselves dealing with se-
rious damages due to flooding. May
they and those many first responders
be safe as they begin the recovery of
their community.
May all that is done be for Your
greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker,
pursuant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a
vote on agreeing to the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
The SPEAKER. The question is on
the Speaker’s approval of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker,
I object to the vote on the ground that
a quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER. Pursuant to clause 8,
rule XX, further proceedings on this
question will be postponed.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT) come forward
and lead the House in the Pledge of Al-
legiance.
Mr. CHABOT led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to five requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
f
HONORING RICHARD SWANN
(Mrs. MURPHY of Florida asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Mrs. MURPHY of Florida. Madam
Speaker, I rise to honor the extraor-
dinary life and enduring legacy of
Richard Swann, a constituent of mine
who recently passed away.
Richard’s life was overflowing with
action and accomplishment, trial and
triumph, and above all, family and
friendship. Richard lost his childhood
sweetheart and beloved wife, Doris, too
young, but he poured his energy into
his work, into his 4 children and 12
grandchildren, and into his large and
loyal network of friends.
Richard was a wise lawyer, a far-
sighted businessman, a real estate de-
veloper, and an influential player at
the highest levels of American and
Florida politics. Richard was a proud
Orlando native and foresaw the city’s
potential before nearly anybody else.
Richard did as much as any man to
transform Orlando into the wonderful
place it is today.
Richard was best known as a cham-
pion of the political causes and can-
didates he cared about. He was com-
mitted to the concept of responsible
and engaged citizenship.
At the service celebrating Richard’s
life, his granddaughter Caroline read
an excerpt from Teddy Roosevelt’s
speech, ‘‘The Man in the Arena.’’ Rich-
ard never sat on the sidelines. He was
always in the arena, striving valiantly
and daring greatly.
Richard was a pillar of our central
Florida community. He will be deeply
missed by all of us who had the honor
to call him a friend.
f
CONGRATULATING CINCINNATI
STATE TECHNICAL AND COMMU-
NITY COLLEGE ON ITS 50TH AN-
NIVERSARY
(Mr. CHABOT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Sep 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20SE7.000 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7840 September 20, 2019
Mr. CHABOT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to thank and congratulate Cin-
cinnati State Technical and Commu-
nity College for 50 years of service to
the greater Cincinnati community.
I have been privileged to visit Cin-
cinnati State many times, most re-
cently the Evendale campus to see
firsthand the opportunities they pro-
vide to so many students. With four
campuses, small class sizes, and over
100 associate degree programs, Cin-
cinnati State is truly an excellent col-
lege.
Perhaps most notably, Cincinnati
State plays a critical role in devel-
oping our region’s workforce. Through
extensive co-op programs and relation-
ships with the University of Cincinnati
and 600 industry partners, Cincinnati
State paves many career paths, espe-
cially for nontraditional students.
Finally, I thank Dr. Monica Posey
for her dedication to making Cin-
cinnati State an even greater asset to
our community.
Congratulations to Cincinnati State
on its 50th anniversary. We look for-
ward to many more.
f
STAND UP FOR CONSUMERS BY
SUPPORTING FAIR ACT
(Mr. BLUMENAUER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker,
every day, thousands of Americans un-
wittingly sign contracts for nursing
homes, credit cards, and employment
contracts that surrender their rights to
their day in court before an impartial
judge and jury.
Instead, buried in the fine print of
the contract, they agree to rely on an
arbitrator who doesn’t have to follow
the law or facts and will have every in-
centive to favor the special interests
that could give them repeat business.
Typically, arbitration is not public.
The Wells Fargo practice of opening
unauthorized bank accounts would
have undoubtedly been exposed and
ended sooner if Wells Fargo hadn’t en-
forced mandatory arbitration.
This is our chance to stand up for
consumers, justice, and fairness. I urge
my colleagues to support H.R. 1423, the
FAIR Act.
f
ENSURE FREE AND FAIR TRADE
(Mr. ALLEN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, every
day that Speaker PELOSI delays a vote
on the United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement, American workers and
their families are hurt. Right now,
farmers, ranchers, and businesses in
Georgia and across the country face
unnecessary uncertainty.
This trade deal is vital to our econ-
omy, and passing USMCA would be a
huge win for the American people. Can-
ada and Mexico both serve as top mar-
kets for a number of our U.S. agricul-
tural products.
In Georgia, 22,558 jobs depend on
manufacturing exports to Canada and
Mexico.
Passing this trade agreement would
also strengthen our already vibrant
economy. The USMCA can add another
176,000 new jobs and add $68.2 billion to
GDP growth.
Let’s ensure free and fair trade while
granting our farmers, ranchers, and
manufacturers the protections they de-
serve.
I urge my Democratic colleagues to
end these partisan politics and pass
USMCA or, at the very least, put the
bill on the House floor for a vote.
f
CONGRATULATING DR. NEIL
SHARKEY ON HIS RETIREMENT
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to recog-
nize and congratulate a friend and edu-
cational leader, Dr. Neil Sharkey, vice
president for research at Penn State
University, upon his retirement.
For the last 22 years, Dr. Sharkey
has managed, facilitated, and advanced
the university’s entire research port-
folio to dig deeper and discover innova-
tive solutions to society’s most chal-
lenging questions.
Under Dr. Sharkey’s leadership, Penn
State’s research expenditures reached
an all-time high in 2017 and 2018, total-
ing $927 million. This investment in the
university’s research has helped fund
important research projects in life
sciences, cyber science, social science,
cancer research, energy and the envi-
ronment, and a variety of other inter-
disciplinary fields.
Before his position as vice president
of research, Dr. Sharkey served as the
associate dean for research and grad-
uate education in the College of Health
and Human Development, as well as a
professor of kinesiology.
I always say we cannot make good
decisions without good data. Dr.
Sharkey has been a leader in this feat,
and I wish him the best of luck as he
embarks on his new endeavors.
f
ALLOW AMERICANS TO PURCHASE
VEHICLES THAT FIT THEIR NEEDS
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to applaud the efforts of U.S.
EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler
and Department of Transportation Sec-
retary Elaine Chao with regard to the
unreasonable automobile fuel mileage
standards put upon consumers by a 2015
Obama-era rule.
In only 5 model years from now, all
U.S. cars would have to average 55
miles per gallon under this current
standard. Most people drive cars these
days that are somewhere around 25 to
33 miles per gallon. They would be
forced into very small cars that don’t
fit their family’s needs.
What the administration is seeking
to do is freeze this timeline at 37 miles
per gallon until technology can catch
up, et cetera, so people can choose to
buy cars that fit their lives. Under the
old rule and what the California Air
Resources Board is trying to foist upon
all 50 States in meeting the Obama
rule, they will not have that choice
anymore.
Unfortunately, a few scared auto-
makers have sat down with CARB to
try to cut a deal to fix the one they
agreed to a few years ago with no real
idea of how they would meet 55 miles
per gallon with current technology and
physics at the time. At this point,
there are very few 55-mile-per-gallon
vehicles to even choose from. Most peo-
ple don’t want to buy those cars be-
cause it doesn’t fit their family, their
life, what they want, and what they de-
sire.
CARB is trying to foist that on all 50
States, and auto manufacturers will be
herded toward it by desiring to make
the same car type for all 50 States, not
just California. This needs to be
stopped, and we must draw the line
here.
f
FORCED ARBITRATION INJUSTICE
REPEAL ACT
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on H.R. 1423,
Forced Arbitration Injustice Repeal
Act, or the FAIR Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
BLUMENAUER). Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from Rhode
Island?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 558 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 1423.
The Chair appoints the gentlewoman
from Illinois (Ms. UNDERWOOD) to pre-
side over the Committee of the Whole.
b 0912
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1423) to
amend title 9 of the United States Code
with respect to arbitration, with Ms.
UNDERWOOD in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall be confined to
the bill and shall not exceed 1 hour
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Sep 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.002 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7841
September 20, 2019
The gentleman from Rhode Island
(Mr. CICILLINE) and the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. COLLINS) each will control
30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Rhode Island.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 1423, the Forced Arbitration In-
justice Repeal Act, or the FAIR Act.
Buried deep within the fine print of
everyday contracts, forced arbitration
deprives American consumers and
workers of their day in court when
they attempt to hold corporations ac-
countable for breaking the law. This
private system lacks the procedural
safeguards of our justice system. It is
not subject to oversight, has no judge
or jury, and is not bound by laws
passed by Congress or the States, but it
has become a requirement of everyday
life. Consumers and workers must sur-
render their rights to corporations
through forced arbitration clauses,
which are unilaterally imposed by
companies before disputes even arise.
When forced arbitration is combined
with nondisclosure agreements, it ef-
fectively silences the victims of ramp-
ant corporate misconduct. This shame-
ful, humiliating, and corrupt system
has isolated and silenced people who
are ultimately deprived of their right
to hold wrongdoers accountable
through their day in court.
Few instances of this silencing effect
are as stark and disturbing as the expe-
riences of victims of sexual harassment
and assault, who are routinely ex-
ploited by forced arbitration.
Forced arbitration has also eroded
the fundamental rights of our Nation’s
men and women in uniform, veterans,
and their families. These brave Ameri-
cans have sacrificed much in service to
our country. They have fought to pro-
tect the fundamental idea that we are
a Nation of laws and institutions that
guarantee the rights to every Amer-
ican and that every American should
have the freedom to enforce these
rights meaningfully.
But for too long, arbitration has
eroded these fundamental protections
by forcing servicemembers’ claims into
a private system set up by corpora-
tions. The Military Coalition, which
represents 5.5 million current and
former servicemembers, The American
Legion, and 29 other military service
organizations, notes that forced arbi-
tration has funneled the claims of serv-
icemembers, veterans, and their fami-
lies into ‘‘a rigged, secretive system in
which all the rules, including the
choice of the arbitrator, are picked by
the corporation.’’
b 0915
Let me give an example. Lieutenant
Commander Kevin Ziober, who testi-
fied in support of the FAIR Act earlier
this year, has served in the U.S. Navy
Reserves since 2008, but in the fall of
2012, he was called into Active Duty for
deployment to Afghanistan.
Kevin notified his employer and con-
veyed his desire to resume work upon
his return, but after over 2 years with
the company, on the last day of work,
right before his deployment to Afghan-
istan, following a farewell party with a
big cake with a symbol of the United
States flag on it, he was fired by his
employer for serving his country.
When he tried to hold his employer
accountable for violating his rights
under USERRA, his company forced his
claim into arbitration, citing an arbi-
tration clause in Kevin’s employment
contract that he was required to sign 6
months into his employment waiving
his constitutional right to a jury trial.
This outrageous practice is nothing
short of a corporate takeover of our
Nation’s system of laws, and the Amer-
ican people have had enough. The over-
whelming majority of voters, including
83 percent of Democrats and 87 percent
of Republicans, support ending forced
arbitration. It is time to act.
H.R. 1423, the FAIR Act, does just
that. This important legislation ends
the use of forced arbitration in every-
day consumer, employment, antitrust,
and civil rights abuses. It is supported
by a broad coalition of groups dedi-
cated to advancing the rights of
women, servicemembers, veterans, con-
sumers, and hardworking Americans.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I rise in opposition to the bill and
will speak to that.
Arbitration—let’s go back to some
basics here—provides consumers a sim-
pler, cheaper, faster path to justice
than does the judicial system. That is
what the evidence showed the last time
the Judiciary Committee performed
oversight of the arbitration system
during the 111th Congress, and that is
what the evidence showed earlier this
term when we renewed oversight in the
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commer-
cial and Administrative Law.
In fact, the evidence in favor of pre-
serving access to arbitration has only
increased over time. Companies are
continuing to improve the fairness of
arbitration agreements and have long
been following improved arbitration
protocols to help assure due process is
given to claimants against them.
The market resolved problems in
consumer credit arbitrations consid-
ered during the 110th and 111th Con-
gresses. A string of new Supreme Court
decisions has demonstrated the Court’s
confidence in the arbitration system.
Even the Consumer Financial Protec-
tion Bureau’s 2015 study of arbitration
highlighted problems consumers would
face if they had no access to arbitra-
tion but, instead, had to rely on flawed
judicial class actions. The study shows
the rise of predispute, mandatory bind-
ing arbitration agreements in con-
sumer settings did not come out of no-
where. It stems directly from the re-
peated abuses of class actions that
have plagued the judicial system in re-
cent decades.
That is not to say that the arbitra-
tion system is perfect, but the arbitra-
tion system is generally good and
should be preserved.
Unfortunately, that is not what the
forced injustice repeal act would do.
Rather than preserve and strengthen
arbitration, it would wipe it out for
enormous numbers of consumer and
employment disputes, as well as many
civil rights and antitrust disputes.
What that would do is not end injus-
tice, but it would actually promote it.
Because what happens when everyday
consumers and employees are denied
rights to arbitrate, rights their con-
tracts guarantee them? In far too
many cases, it means Americans will
be shut out of the justice system en-
tirely.
If their claims are small enough for
small claims court, there may be an
option. In 46 States and the District of
Columbia, however, small claims
courts only take claims worth $10,000
or less; 30 of those jurisdictions limit it
to $5,000 or less.
Millions of claimants with cases
worth amounts not much more than
those ceilings will never be able to pay
the courtroom lawyers enough to take
their cases to ordinary trial courts.
Maybe if the claimants could qualify
as plaintiffs in a class action, they
could join those actions. Millions more
will not. And even those who do can ex-
pect to get nothing in return but a
postcard telling them they have won a
few dollars and cents on a coupon.
Meanwhile, class action plaintiffs’
trial lawyers will reap multimillion-
dollar shares in fees from the recov-
eries they dole out to plaintiff class
members at mere pennies on the dollar.
If you ask me, it would be better to
call this bill the forced class action in-
justice guarantee act today.
Rather than wipe out arbitration, we
should consider ways to make it better;
and, while we do that, we should do ev-
erything we can to reform the abuse of
the class action system.
Senate Judiciary Chairman GRAHAM
suggested that we ought to do just that
at a Senate Judiciary Committee hear-
ing on arbitration earlier this year,
and he was exactly right. The worst re-
sult Congress could deliver to the
American people would be to wipe out
access to arbitration while leaving
them no alternative but an unreformed
judicial system.
Before I yield back, Madam Chair,
this is something that is disturbing to
me, because this is a bill that my gen-
tleman friend just stated there is a list
of horribles here, there is a list of
horribles of abuse, sexual abuse, mili-
tary.
All of these could have been ad-
dressed if we had sat down, as a Con-
gress should do, as I told the chairman
during the markup: Mr. Chairman, if
we would have just sat down and
talked about the issues facing us, we
wouldn’t be facing a veto threat from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Sep 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.003 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7842 September 20, 2019
anywhere, we wouldn’t be facing a Sen-
ate that is not going to take this up,
and we could have found a bill that
would not have had to have a rule. It
could have been on suspension. Because
we could have found the ways to fix the
arbitration system, make sure that
there is access, and protect those who
need protecting without putting a par-
tisan bill on the floor that simply will
take people out of the system instead
of including them, but be very profit-
able for those who do class action law-
suits.
Let’s be honest about what is hap-
pening here. We are taking people out
of the system, not putting them in. We
are not really protecting them; we are
actually hurting them. And this is the
issue that could have been fixed with a
true working Congress, in a true work-
ing committee. We just don’t have that
right now, and that is sad. That makes
us all the worse in doing this.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I
would just remind the gentleman that
this is a bipartisan piece of legislation,
and the most recent polling shows 87
percent of Republicans and 83 percent
of Democrats support it. So it is broad-
ly bipartisan all across the country. It
is bipartisan in terms of its introduc-
tion and sponsorship. It is just not bi-
partisan in the Republican caucus, ap-
parently.
Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. JOHN-
SON). He is not only a distinguished
Member; he is the lead sponsor and au-
thor of the FAIR Act.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Madam
Chair, it is strange, because my friends
on the other side of the aisle are not
interested in working on anything to-
gether. They are only interested in giv-
ing tax cuts to the top 1 percent and
the big corporations, and they are in-
terested in privatizing everything. And
a privatized justice system is the ulti-
mate injustice, and that is what forced
arbitration is all about.
The FAIR Act would restore justice
to millions of Americans.
We are a country of justice and fair
play. When people cheat, we take pride
in holding them accountable before a
jury in a court of law; but forced arbi-
tration clauses hidden in the fine print
deprive victims of their day in court
before a jury of their peers.
Using forced arbitration, corpora-
tions force victims into secret pro-
ceedings where the deck is stacked
against them. Predictably, the end re-
sult is the corporation wins, and the
victim is deprived of justice.
And because the proceeding is secret,
the public never learns what happened.
We won’t know which corporation tol-
erates a climate and a culture of sexual
harassment of its employees or which
corporation fraudulently overcharges
its customers or which nursing home
has a sordid history of mistreating its
patients.
For too long, people have been
tricked by complicated legal jargon
hidden in take-it-or-leave-it contracts.
People like Diana, from my home
State of Georgia.
Diana, after 5 years at Kay Jewelers,
learned she was making less than her
more recently hired, less experienced
male colleagues; but because of her
forced arbitration clause she was
tricked into signing, she couldn’t get
the backpay that she deserved. She is
one of millions of victims who have
been denied justice because they unwit-
tingly signed away their right to take
a wrongdoer to court.
It is not fair and it is not right. If
you believe in consumer rights, then
you should support the FAIR Act.
The CHAIR. The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
an addition 30 seconds to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Madam
Chair, if you believe in consumer
rights, then you should support the
FAIR Act; and if you believe in justice
and the rule of law, then you should
vote to pass the FAIR Act.
Madam Chair, I want to thank my
colleagues who have worked so hard to
support this bill—Congressman CART-
WRIGHT, Congressman CICILLINE, Con-
gressman RASKIN, Congresswoman
JAYAPAL, and, last but not least, Chair-
man NADLER—for their work in getting
this bill to the brink of passage today.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, yes, it is me, and I do speak
truth here, and I will acknowledge
there is one Republican cosponsor of
this bill. It is bipartisan in that regard.
However, it could have had 100 or more
Republican cosponsors if we would
have actually done legislation.
Instead, my gentle friend from Geor-
gia just gets up and repeats trite state-
ments about what Republicans want to
do and what Republicans don’t want to
do. That is the problem we have right
here. That is the problem, why we
don’t have legislation that actually
works and will actually get signed and
put into law.
Remember, a bill that only comes
through one part and cannot get
through to get a President’s signature
is simply a political statement. That is
what we are doing today.
Madam Chair, I yield the balance of
my time to the gentleman from North
Dakota (Mr. ARMSTRONG) so he may
manage the remainder of the time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Georgia (Mrs. MCBATH), who has been a
fierce advocate for workers and con-
sumers.
Mrs. MCBATH. Madam Chair, I rise
in support of the FAIR Act, a bipar-
tisan bill introduced by my friend and
fellow Georgian, Congressman JOHN-
SON.
I am proud to cosponsor this bill
which will help small businesses by
ending the use of forced arbitration.
These tiny clauses hidden in the fine
print are used to trick rising entre-
preneurs in their dealings with sophis-
ticated conglomerates.
Small businesses need to sign con-
tracts for phone plans, credit cards,
and rental cars, but too often, lurking
in the fine print, a few words can cost
them their constitutional right to
their day in court. With this bill, our
entrepreneurs can focus on growing
their businesses and investing in our
communities.
Madam Chair, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting this bill.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Chair, I
want to quote Justice Breyer in a Su-
preme Court opinion:
The typical consumer who has only a small
damage claim, who seeks, say, the value of
only a defective refrigerator or television set
would be left without any remedy but a
court remedy, the costs and delays of which
could eat up the value of an eventual small
recovery.
Madam Chair, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from California (Mr.
MCCLINTOCK), my friend.
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Madam Chair,
this bill purports to assert a very im-
portant constitutional right: the right
to trial by jury in civil actions. But it
does this by denying another very im-
portant constitutional right: the free-
dom of unimpaired contract, the right
of two parties to agree to exchange
goods and services according to their
own best judgment.
Now, because of the excesses and ex-
penses and uncertainties that have
plagued our civil courts, many con-
sumers and producers and many em-
ployees and employers find it mutually
advantageous to waive their right to
civil jury trials in any disputes be-
tween them in favor of simpler, cheap-
er, and faster arbitration.
Now, the proponents tell us that it is
an uneven playing field and this re-
quirement is often imposed in nonnego-
tiable, take-it-or-leave-it propositions.
First of all, this isn’t exactly true.
Every employee and every consumer,
no matter how weak and vulnerable,
has an absolute defense against a bad
agreement: It is the word, ‘‘no.’’ No,
the pay isn’t good enough; no, the price
is too high; no, I don’t like the terms,
and I am taking my business else-
where.
Even when there aren’t good alter-
natives, the fact is that every provision
in a contract is a take-it-or-leave-it
proposition if one side or the other in-
sists on it. The question for each side is
whether the totality of the contract is
beneficial to them or not. It is my
right to make that decision for myself
without somebody in government mak-
ing it for me.
Now, remember, an arbitration provi-
sion binds both sides. For example, I
am not a lawyer. I can’t afford to hire
one to take a big company to court.
For me, binding arbitration helps level
the playing field by providing an inex-
pensive alternative that the company
must abide by. This bill takes that pro-
tection away from me.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Sep 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.005 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7843
September 20, 2019
According to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, through arbitration, em-
ployees prevail three times more often,
recover twice as much money, and re-
solve their claims more quickly than if
they went through the civil courts in
litigation; and, in most cases, the em-
ployer pays the entire cost of arbitra-
tion.
According to one study, in claims be-
tween $10,000 and $75,000, the consumer
claimant was charged an average of
$219. Now, you compare that to the cost
of hiring an attorney and taking on an
entire corporate legal department.
The net result of this bill will be
higher prices for products and lower
wages for workers as companies factor
the higher cost of litigation into their
business models, and, meanwhile, it de-
nies consumers and employees the free-
dom to choose a much simpler and less
expensive way to resolve their dis-
putes.
b 0930
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle have argued that
forced arbitration is cheaper or easier
than litigation and that consumers and
workers should have a choice.
The FAIR Act doesn’t take away
anybody’s choice. It restores choice. It
restores choice that has been taken
away from the American people by big
corporations that don’t want to face li-
ability or public scrutiny for their ac-
tions. This is a complete misrepresen-
tation of what the bill does.
The FAIR Act does not ban arbitra-
tion. It eliminates forced arbitration
that is imposed on everyday consumers
and hardworking Americans before a
dispute even arises.
And the notion that you have a
choice, most consumers don’t even
know it is happening. When you check
that box on the contract for your
phone or your cable, you have given
away your right to have your claims
heard. It is very widespread in con-
sumer employment contracts.
These clauses are hidden, very often,
from consumers and workers. They ap-
pear inside of envelopes and delivery
boxes in the fine print of privacy poli-
cies, which often span dozens of pages.
In most cases, people aren’t even aware
that they have signed away their right
to a day in court, simply by using ev-
eryday goods and services.
Companies still have the option to
use arbitration, but only on a vol-
untary basis after a dispute arises and
not by unilaterally imposing it on peo-
ple by big corporate entities.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
distinguished gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DEUTCH), the distinguished senior
member of the Judiciary Committee.
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Chair, I thank
my friend from Rhode Island, a great
champion for consumers, for yielding.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of the
FAIR Act to protect Americans from
forced arbitration agreements. These
agreements, too often, are the result of
power imbalances that block claims
from judicial remedies in employment,
consumer, antitrust, and civil rights
disputes.
The FAIR Act is critical for pro-
tecting the rights of women, in par-
ticular, who have faced gender dis-
crimination and sexual harassment in
the workplace. We have all heard the
disturbing reports of tens of thousands
of women employed at one large com-
pany who alleged that they were paid
less than their male colleagues. They
were passed over for promotions to
management positions multiple times
in favor of men with less experience.
They faced unwanted sexual advances
and attempted assault at company
meetings. At least one Floridian was
fired after she reported one of her supe-
riors tried to kiss and touch her
against her will.
Employees who face mistreatment
deserve justice and they deserve their
day in court. Making forced arbitration
a condition of employment takes away
their day in court and it frustrates the
pursuit of justice.
The CHAIR. The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
an additional 30 seconds to the gen-
tleman from Florida.
Mr. DEUTCH. Forced arbitration pro-
visions strip employees of their rights.
They ensure that employees are no
match for their employers when it
comes to reporting discrimination and
harassment.
Today, this House of Representatives
has the opportunity to restore the
rights of all workers to seek justice
and public accountability.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support and pass the bipartisan
FAIR Act.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, I agree with my friend
from Florida; sexual assault cases
should never be a part of forced arbi-
tration, ever, under any circumstances.
The problem is, when we are doing
that and moving into this, we are also
taking this huge swath of cases that
don’t qualify at the high end, don’t
have enough money for class action
lawsuits, but yet are too big for small
claims court.
The reality of those situations in any
court system across the country, is
they are overworked, they are behind,
and they are delayed. But, most impor-
tantly, probably, if you are dealing
with a contractual lawsuit that doesn’t
have the ability to get treble or puni-
tive damages, and it is a small enough
claim like a refrigerator or a tele-
vision, there is really no access because
the cost of the lawyer will make it pro-
hibitive to go to court.
And the argument that this only al-
lows choice doesn’t really work be-
cause the same reason you write a con-
tract at the beginning of a business re-
lationship as opposed to when that re-
lationship is dissolving, is because you
want to put terms in place before prob-
lems arise. And the reason is when you
go to arbitration in these types of
cases, one side will be so disadvantaged
by arbitration they would never agree
to it.
But probably the most egregious part
of this bill is the fact that we are retro-
actively applying it to hundreds of
thousands, if not millions, of existing
contracts. So things that were agreed
to, either employee-vendor or vendee
relationships, now will be null and void
and we will be rewriting the rules of
the game sometimes decades after it
has occurred.
So it is important to recognize that—
and I would just end with this—prob-
ably the most toxic area of law we have
everywhere in the country, is family
law—and only in a place where you can
be in absolute love can you learn to
hate somebody that bad—courts are
moving towards arbitration prior to
dispute resolution in order to deal with
it. If anybody has ever dealt with that
or practiced in that area of law, there
are reasons why this occurs, and it is
so you can try to arrange it.
I agree there are abuses. I agree with
Ranking Member COLLINS that there
are plenty of things we could look at to
do, but we cannot throw the whole sys-
tem out because you are going to have
a broad swath of cases that no longer
have any legal access.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I
would point out the family law cases
that my friend just referenced, of
course, are voluntary arbitration pro-
ceedings post dispute. This bill has
nothing to do with that. This is pre-
dispute forced arbitration.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
distinguished gentlewoman from Con-
necticut (Ms. DELAURO), a champion
for women, and a Member of Congress
who has fought to be sure that women
have their rights vindicated against
powerful corporations for a very long
time.
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Chair, forced
arbitration is one of the central ways
that corporate America has rigged the
system against middle class families
and working people. It undermines our
democracy.
With forced arbitration, employers
can force an employee to waive their
right to seek justice in court. They
need to accept arbitration, which is a
private legal process, without a judge
or a jury.
The Economic Policy Institute pre-
dicts that by 2024, 80 percent of non-
union private sector workers will have
lost their right to seek justice in court.
With forced arbitration, working peo-
ple lose the ability to file an individual
class action lawsuit if their rights are
violated. They lose the ability to hold
bad acting employers to account in an
open and impartial forum. And they
often lose in their fight for justice.
Let’s level the playing field, restore
justice for millions of working people,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Sep 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.006 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7844 September 20, 2019
pass the FAIR Act, and prohibit forced
arbitration agreements from being
valid or enforceable if they require ar-
bitration of employment, consumer,
antitrust, or civil rights disputes. No
one should have to give up the right to
justice. Let’s pass the FAIR Act.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Chair, I
have one real quick response, particu-
larly on family law.
The gentleman is correct; those are
almost always post dispute. But in a
very significant amount of those cases,
they are court ordered arbitration, so I
don’t know how voluntary we would
call it.
Madam Chair, I continue to reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. SPEIER), perhaps Con-
gress’ strongest champion for women,
particularly women as it relates to
their employers, and someone who has
been an advocate for this for a very
long time.
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman from Rhode Island for
that generous introduction.
Madam Chair, I can’t believe that we
are having this discussion today be-
cause it is like there is a parallel uni-
verse.
I am going to talk about the 70,000
women of Sterling Jewelers. This is
Kay Jewelers, and this is Jared Jewel-
ers. They have been subjected to ramp-
ant sexism. And when they complained
about it they were denied justice by
mandatory arbitration. Sterling’s
forced arbitration clause has prevented
them from seeking justice. It is more
like, first you are groped, then you are
gagged. That is what forced arbitration
is all about.
Diana Acampora was pulled onto the
lap of a manager who held her tightly
as he fondled her.
Tammy Zenner was nicknamed
‘‘Texas Tammy’’ by colleagues because
of the size of her breasts and told she
should be flattered by an executive
rubbing himself on her.
Dawn Souto-Coons was passed over
for promotions in favor of lewd and less
qualified men.
Diana, Tammy, Dawn, and countless
others deserve justice.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
an additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. SPEIER. Instead, Sterling has
made a mockery of our laws and has
used forced arbitration to make 70,000
women in this country subject to a 14-
year process. That is not justice. That
is enslavement.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Chair, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. CARTWRIGHT), who
has been a very important champion of
this legislation.
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman from Rhode Is-
land for yielding.
Madam Chair, we have heard the sto-
ries, and we will continue to hear
them, of all of the employees and the
consumers who have been tricked into
giving away their constitutional right
to a jury trial to have their rights en-
forced.
It doesn’t really matter all the con-
stitutional rights you have or all the
statutory rights that you have; if you
don’t have a right to enforce these in
court, all of your rights are washed
away. So when consumers and employ-
ees get tricked into signing away their
right to go to court, all of their rights
are washed away.
We have heard the stories. And I
wanted to add to the list the story of
Barbara Jones-Davis, who is 98 years
old. She had glaucoma and dementia.
She was in a nursing home in north-
west Philadelphia. They let her wan-
der. In violation of all their own poli-
cies, she wandered outside. She wan-
dered outside for more than 20 minutes.
She went over a 15-foot precipice and
fell to her death with a broken skull.
Her family got forced into arbitra-
tion. The nursing home didn’t admit
responsibility. They forced her into one
of these secret and rigged arbitrations.
These things are unconstitutional.
They take away your right to go to
court. This is a constitutional right
that our Founding Fathers fought and
died for: that we would be able to re-
solve our disputes in court, in open
court, fairly chosen, not one of these
secret and rigged proceedings that is
mandatory. It is forced because people
got tricked into them.
Madam Chair, let’s all vote for the
FAIR Act and restore our American
constitutional rights.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, they are not unconsti-
tutional. The Supreme Court has ex-
plained that arbitration is usually
cheaper and faster than litigation. It
can have simpler procedural and evi-
dentiary rules, normally minimizes
hostility, and is less disruptive to on-
going and future business dealings
amongst the parties.
I think that is part of the issue here.
I said this the other day in committee,
and I am probably going to say it more
than anybody wants to hear it, but
hard cases make bad law. There are ob-
viously issues. There are issues of
court systems being abused and there
are issues of arbitration being abused.
But we have to remember that the vast
majority of these cases fall into those
normal contract disputes, employment
disputes, business versus business dis-
putes, or small dollar level consumer
disputes.
While you have a constitutional right
to a jury trial in any State or Federal
court, depending on your action, you
do not have a constitutional right to be
able to pay for that in a civil pro-
ceeding. The cost of these types of
cases just will naturally prohibit them
from being resolved in any way at all.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. SCOTT), the distinguished
chair of the Education and Labor Com-
mittee.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I thank Mr. JOHNSON, Mr.
CICILLINE, and Chairman NADLER for
their leadership on this issue.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of the
Forced Arbitration Injustice Repeal
Act, or the FAIR Act.
Companies are increasingly using
forced arbitration clauses to shield
themselves from accountability for
many forms of wrongdoing, including
civil rights violations, labor abuses,
and unfair consumer practices. For ex-
ample, 60 million workers are now sub-
ject to forced arbitration clauses that
deny them their day in court.
Forced arbitration is a rigged sys-
tem. That is because the arbitrators
are essentially hired by the companies
and consumers never have a chance.
Workers and consumers should not
have to sign away their rights as a con-
dition to their employment or as a con-
dition of a contract, and they should
not have to give up their day in court.
Often, arbitration is a desirable al-
ternative to litigation. Under the FAIR
Act, arbitration would now be a vol-
untary option, not the only option.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this legislation.
b 0945
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I want to respond
briefly to the notion that somehow
forced arbitration is good for con-
sumers and workers and that they are
really going to miss being forced into
these proceedings.
According to a 2017 study by the Eco-
nomic Policy Institute, consumers won
only 9 percent of the claims brought in
arbitration while companies won 93
percent of the claims. So in terms of
who wins, who has the benefit of this
rigged system, it is clear that it is the
corporations.
The Economic Policy Institute’s
economist, Heidi Shierholz, notes that
‘‘not only do companies win in the
overwhelming majority of claims when
consumers are forced into arbitration,
they win big.’’
The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau concluded in 2015 that there is
‘‘no evidence of arbitration clauses
leading to lower prices for consumers.’’
So this notion that even though 83
percent of the American people are
against forced arbitration and even
though the evidence shows overwhelm-
ingly that they lose in them, that
somehow they really like them, it is
just not true.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Sep 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.008 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7845
September 20, 2019
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, may I
inquire how much time remains.
The CHAIR. The gentleman from
Rhode Island has 141⁄4 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I would like to build a little bit again
on what the real impact of forced arbi-
tration is on consumers and workers.
According to data from the two big-
gest arbitration providers, the Amer-
ican Arbitration Association and
JAMS, only 1,909 consumers won a
monetary award in arbitration over a
5-year period. In all nursing home arbi-
trations, only four won a monetary re-
ward over that 5-year period. Of the
11,114 employment claims that were
filed, only 282 won a monetary award.
That is 2.5 percent.
Of the 6,012 arbitration cases involv-
ing credit cards and banks, only 131
won monetary damages. That is barely
2 percent.
These numbers make it clear that
you are more likely to be struck by
lightning than win a monetary award
in forced arbitration.
Furthermore, forced arbitration dis-
courages consumers and workers from
adjudicating disputes altogether, while
the lower probability of victory and
the meager legal fees associated with
forced arbitration discourage attorneys
from representing individuals in arbi-
tration proceedings.
Even when workers go to arbitration,
the system can wreak havoc on their
lives, and we heard many examples,
particularly in the context of sexual
assault and harassment victims.
We heard during our hearing on
forced arbitration from advocate and
former FOX News commentator
Gretchen Carlson who spoke forcefully
about the horrifying effect that forced
arbitration has on victims of sexual as-
sault and harassment.
Again, forced arbitration is corporate
immunity. It is rigged because corpora-
tions get to pick the arbitrators and
the whole proceeding is entirely secret.
That is why, overwhelmingly, the
American people want forced arbitra-
tion to end once and for all, and that is
what the FAIR Act does.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Chair, I
think we can’t talk about this bill and
talk about arbitration without also
talking about class actions.
Mayer Brown did a study on class-ac-
tion suits. Rather than simply relying
on anecdotes, the study undertook an
empirical analysis of neutrally selected
sample sets of putative consumer and
employee class-action lawsuits filed in
Federal court in 2009.
In the entire dataset, not one of the
class actions ended in a final judgment
on the merits for the plaintiff. None of
the class actions went to trial, either
before a judge or a jury.
The vast majority of cases produced
no benefits to most members of the pu-
tative class, even though in a number
of those cases, the lawyers who sought
to represent the class often enriched
themselves in the process, and the law-
yers representing the defense as well.
Approximately 14 percent of all class-
action cases remain pending 4 years
after they were filed, without resolu-
tion or even a determination of wheth-
er the case could go forward on a class-
wide basis. In these cases, class mem-
bers have not yet received any benefits
and likely will never receive any, based
on the disposition of the other cases we
have studied.
Over one-third, 35 percent, of the
class actions that have been resolved
were dismissed voluntarily by the
plaintiff. Many of these cases settled
on an individual basis, meaning a pay-
out to the individual named plaintiff
and the lawyers who brought the suit,
even though the class members receive
nothing.
Just under one-third, 31 percent, of
class actions that have been resolved
were dismissed by a court on the mer-
its. Again, that means that the class
received nothing.
One-third, 33 percent, of resolved
cases were settled on a class basis.
The settlement rate is half the aver-
age for Federal court litigation, mean-
ing that a class member is far less like-
ly to have even a chance of obtaining
relief than the average party suing in-
dividually.
For those cases that do settle, there
is often little or no benefit for class
members.
I have been personally involved in
this in a Barbri lawsuit for any mem-
ber of the bar across the country. I
have no idea how much my fellow law-
yers made, but I know I got a check for
$37 in the mail. Few class members
ever even see those paltry benefits,
particularly in consumer class actions.
Unfortunately, because information
regarding the distribution of class-ac-
tion settlements is rarely available,
the public almost never learns what
percentage of a settlement is actually
paid to class members. But of the six
cases in the dataset for which the set-
tlement dispute was made public, five
delivered funds to only minuscule per-
centages of the class, 0.000006, 0.33 per-
cent, 1.5 percent, 9.6 percent, and 12
percent.
Those results are consistent with
other available information about set-
tlement distribution in consumer class
actions.
Although some cases provide for
automatic distribution of benefits to
class members, automatic distribution
is almost never used in consumer class
actions. Only 1 of the 40 settled cases
fell into that category.
The bottom line is, the hard evidence
shows that class actions do not provide
class members with anything close to
the benefits claimed by their pro-
ponents, although they can and do en-
rich attorneys.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
the balance of my time to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. NADLER),
the distinguished chair of the full com-
mittee.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chairwoman, I
rise in strong support of H.R. 1423, the
Forced Arbitration Injustice Repeal
Act, or the FAIR Act.
This critical legislation would re-
store access to justice for millions of
Americans who are currently locked
out of the court system and are forced
to settle their disputes against compa-
nies in a private system of arbitration
that is often skewed in the company’s
favor over the individual.
Nearly a century ago, Congress en-
acted the Federal Arbitration Act to
allow merchants to resolve run-of-the-
mill contract disputes in a system of
private arbitration that would be le-
gally enforceable. The system that
Congress envisioned was to be used vol-
untarily and only between merchants
of equal bargaining power.
However, the Supreme Court, over
the past 40 years, has issued a series of
decisions that have expanded the use of
arbitration far beyond Congress’ origi-
nal intent or a fair reading of the text
of the Federal Arbitration Act, cre-
ating the unjust system that we see
today.
Private arbitration has been trans-
formed from a voluntary forum for
companies to resolve commercial dis-
putes into a legal nightmare for mil-
lions of consumers, employees, and
others who are forced into arbitration
and are unable to enforce certain fun-
damental rights in court.
Many companies use forced arbitra-
tion as a tool to protect themselves
from consumers and workers who seek
to hold them accountable for wrong-
doing. By burying a forced arbitration
clause deep in the fine print of a take-
it-or-leave-it consumer or employment
contract, companies can evade the
court system, where plaintiffs have far
greater legal protections, and hide be-
hind the one-sided process that is tilted
in their favor.
For example, arbitration generally
limits discovery, does not adhere to the
Rules of Civil Procedure, can prohibit
class actions—which it almost always
does—and denies the right of appeal.
Worse yet, arbitration allows the pro-
ceedings, and often even the results, to
stay secret, thereby permitting compa-
nies to avoid public scrutiny of poten-
tial misconduct, thereby enabling com-
panies to continue unsafe practices
after settling with one person.
For millions of consumers and em-
ployees, the precondition—whether
they know it or not—of obtaining a
basic service or product, such as a bank
account, a cell phone, a credit card, or
even a job, is that they must agree to
resolve any disputes in private arbitra-
tion.
We used to refer to these kinds of
agreements as contracts of adhesion,
where one party with all the power dic-
tates the terms to the other party in a
take-it-or-leave-it contract.
The next time you apply for a credit
card, try crossing out the term in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Sep 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.010 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7846 September 20, 2019
fine print requiring you to agree to ar-
bitration and see if you still get that
credit card. You will be denied without
a moment’s hesitation.
These are classic contracts of adhe-
sion, which were once clearly
disfavored under the law, but which
now seem to have been blessed by the
Supreme Court as standard operating
procedures in the corporate world.
Madam Chair, the Seventh Amend-
ment to the Constitution guarantees
everyone the right to a jury trial for
all controversies at law over $20. These
agreements for arbitration nullify the
Seventh Amendment. We have to re-
spect the Constitution. The Constitu-
tion has more things in it than the
Second Amendment. It has a few other
amendments, like the Seventh Amend-
ment, which we should respect.
These contracts of adhesion, these
agreements, nullify any protections
that Congress votes. If we vote or a
State legislature votes on an employ-
ment protection, a union protection, a
consumer protection, its enforcement
can be completely nullified by these ar-
bitration agreements.
For individuals who have no choice
but to agree to these contracts, that
means that their ability to enforce
civil rights, consumer, labor, and anti-
trust laws are subject to the whims of
a private arbitrator, often selected by
the companies themselves. These pri-
vate arbitrators are not required to
provide plaintiffs any of the funda-
mental protections guaranteed in the
courts, and their further employment
can depend on building a good reputa-
tion with the companies that hire
them.
Unsurprisingly, then, arbitration has
become a virtual get-out-of-jail-free
card that many companies use to cir-
cumvent the basic rights of consumers
and workers.
H.R. 1423, the FAIR Act, reverse this
disastrous trend by prohibiting arbitra-
tion clauses in consumer, labor, anti-
trust, and civil rights disputes.
Importantly, this legislation does not
preclude parties from agreeing to arbi-
trate a claim after the dispute arises,
which will ensure that arbitration
agreements are truly voluntary and
transparent. It does, however, prevent
unsuspecting consumers and employees
from being forced to give up their right
to seek justice in court.
I urge my colleagues to support this
vital legislation, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, like the First Amend-
ment, Fourth Amendment, and when
you are from a small State, you are a
big fan of the 10th Amendment as well.
I like the Second Amendment, but I
like the other ones, too.
We are talking about credit cards,
and we are talking about those issues,
and I think we are talking about con-
sumer contracts. The Consumer Finan-
cial Protection Bureau did a study in
2015, and it came up with a couple of
things. Particularly, you cannot talk
about getting rid of forced arbitration
without talking about class actions
again.
For example, the CFPB study found
that the substantial majority of class
actions are resolved with no benefits to
the class members. The weighted-aver-
age claims were only 4 percent, i.e., the
vast majority of class members do not
file claims for payment from class ac-
tion settlement funds. The average set-
tlement payment to class members was
just $32.35, while the average attor-
ney’s fees averaged $1 million per case.
The average fee paid to class action
plaintiffs’ lawyers as a percentage of
the announced settlement was 41 per-
cent, with a median of 46 percent.
Class-action lawsuits produce class-
wide settlements and took an average
of nearly 2 years to resolve. Obviously,
there are cases that go longer; there
are cases that go shorter. But when
you are dealing in a consumer protec-
tion area for a small amount of money,
2 years is an exceptionally long time to
be dealing with that kind of litigation.
Arbitration is simpler. It is quicker.
It is often easier and more convenient
for the parties. In many cases, it cre-
ates less hostility and gets finished
quicker.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the distinguished gentle-
woman from Illinois (Mrs. BUSTOS).
Mrs. BUSTOS. Mr. Chair, I thank
Chairman NADLER for yielding, and I
also thank Congressman JOHNSON for
this very important bill. I thank him
for his fight on behalf of so many peo-
ple.
I rise today in strong support of the
FAIR Act. This is a bill that would end
the secret arbitration process and the
cycle of silencing victims of predatory
behavior.
I first became involved with this
fight a couple of years back when The
Washington Post detailed allegations
of a chief executive at Jared and Kay
Jewelers who only promoted women
who would sleep with him. The Post
shed light on mandatory, alcohol-
fueled managers meetings where doz-
ens of women were demeaned and
groped.
b 1000
As I continued working on this issue,
I met with women from the tech indus-
try who watched in horror as bigwig
executives were given multimillion-
dollar exit packages after facing cred-
ible allegations of misconduct. But
none of these women were allowed to
speak out.
Why? Because they were forced into a
secret arbitration process, losing their
right to sue and ensuring their claims
would never see the light of day. And,
if they were to speak out publicly,
they—they as the women who were vic-
tims of this—could be sued for break-
ing this nondisclosure agreement.
This is a practice that is so egregious
that the attorneys general in all 50 of
our States have come out against
forced arbitration clauses that are used
in cases of sexual misconduct.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle to stand on
the side of workers, on the side of fair-
ness and transparency, and on the side
of doing what is right. I urge all of us
to support this piece of legislation.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Chairman, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, may I
inquire how much time is remaining,
please, on each side.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. PETERS). The
gentleman from New York has 51⁄4 min-
utes remaining. The gentleman from
North Dakota has 123⁄4 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the distinguished gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. BEYER).
Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, I have
been speaking about the need to ban
forced arbitration since I joined Con-
gress. It is wonderful to finally have
this bill, the FAIR Act, up for a vote in
Congress, and I really want to thank
Congressman JOHNSON.
I think what is so troubling about
forced arbitration is that, when we fi-
nally discover that we have become a
victim of it, we feel helpless and taken
advantage of. These forced arbitration
clauses are buried in the fine print of
everyday contracts, and before you
know it, we are unknowingly giving up
our legal rights.
But I come before you, Mr. Chair-
man, as a small business owner to say
this is completely unnecessary. As a
small business owner of 46 years, we
are selling 4,000 and 5,000 cars a year,
and we have never had to resort to
mandatory binding arbitration. In fact,
what we say is that, if you have a con-
flict, we would love to go to arbitration
with you, and we will respect whatever
the arbiter says; but, if you don’t like
it, you can still sue us, giving the max-
imum choice to the consumer. As a re-
sult, you rarely have a conflict that
gets out of hand.
One only needs to think of the Wells
Fargo case where Wells Fargo was sued
by several of its customers for using
their personal information to open all
these fake accounts; but, when they
filed suit against Wells Fargo, they
found out they had this mandatory
forced arbitration clause buried in the
customer agreement.
Mr. Chairman, I encourage us to sup-
port this good bill.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Chairman, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the distinguished gentle-
woman from Colorado (Ms. DEGETTE).
Ms. DEGETTE. Mr. Chairman, I rise
in strong support of H.R. 1423, the
FAIR Act.
Forced arbitration clauses were
originally intended to mediate business
disputes among businesses, not be-
tween businesses and individuals, but
now they are found in every aspect of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:48 Sep 20, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.011 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7847
September 20, 2019
our lives. From employment contracts
to student loans, to cellphone plans, to
credit cards and numerous other goods
and services, every American has
agreed to forced arbitration, whether
they want to or not.
This bill ensures that individuals
have the right to choose how they seek
justice: the choice to go to court, the
choice to join a class action lawsuit,
and, yes, even the choice to go to arbi-
tration.
But these choices should not be made
for them by somebody else. Passage of
the FAIR Act will restore that choice,
and I urge all of my colleagues to sup-
port this important legislation.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Chairman, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the distinguished gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. JEFFRIES).
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the chairman and distinguished
gentleman from Georgia for his tre-
mendous leadership.
Women have a right not to be sexu-
ally harassed; people of color have a
right not to be discriminated against;
workers have a right not to be ex-
ploited; consumers have a right not to
be defrauded; and the American people
have a right to liberty and justice for
all. Unfortunately, the malignant prac-
tice of forced arbitration takes these
rights away.
The American people are being hood-
winked, bamboozled, and led astray.
The practice of forced arbitration ef-
fectively makes rights available with-
out a remedy. This practice is uncon-
scionable, unacceptable, and un-Amer-
ican.
Vote ‘‘yes’’ on the FAIR Act so we
can end this practice of forced arbitra-
tion once and for all.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself the remainder of my time.
In closing, I just want to ask one
simple question: Under this bill, who
wins and who loses?
Do consumers win? No. Studies show
arbitration provides consumers faster
and cheaper results that are just as
good as court outcomes deliver; and we
know that they will have way more ac-
cess to a result in small cases that are
bigger than small claims and too
small—those in which hiring a private
lawyer at an hourly rate makes sense
but are too small so class action
doesn’t apply.
Do employees win? No. Research
shows employees are three times more
likely to win in arbitration than in
court, and prevailing employees typi-
cally win twice as much money in arbi-
tration in a shorter period of time.
Do class action plaintiffs win? Not if
you listen to the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau. The CFPB’S 2015
study of arbitration and class actions
found the substantial majority of class
actions were resolved with no benefits
flowing to the absent class members.
The weighted average rate in class ac-
tions was only 4 percent, meaning the
vast majority of class members do not
file claims for payment under class ac-
tion settlement funds. The average set-
tlement payment, again, was only
$32.35.
Does anybody win under this bill?
Surprise, surprise, somebody does. It is
the plaintiffs’ in class action trial bar.
Once again, all you have to do is look
at the CFPB’s study. It found that
class action attorneys’ fees average $1
million per case, and the average fee
paid to a class action plaintiffs’ lawyer
as a percentage of the announced set-
tlement was 41 percent, with a median
of 46 percent.
So the answer to the question about
this bill is simple: Consumers don’t
win. Employees don’t win. Even class
action plaintiffs don’t win. But the
plaintiffs’ class action trial lawyers
sure do win, and they make out like
bandits.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to vote ‘‘no’’ on this unjust bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Mr. Chair, we have a bedrock prin-
ciple in this country, and that is that
all Americans deserve their day in
court. We make a mockery of this prin-
ciple, however, when individuals can be
stripped of this fundamental right and
be forced into private arbitration pro-
ceedings without the safeguards our ju-
dicial system affords.
We make a mockery of this right not
only when individuals can be stripped
of this right, but when almost all
Americans are stripped of this funda-
mental right and are forced into pri-
vate arbitration proceedings without
the safeguards our judicial system af-
fords.
Now, we heard the statistics cited by
the gentleman, which come from the
Chamber of Commerce, and Mr.
CICILLINE showed how wrong those sta-
tistics were.
But the real point is, of course, that,
under this bill, if a plaintiff thinks
that he can get a better deal under ar-
bitration, then arbitration is available
voluntarily, as it should be.
What this bill seeks to ban is individ-
uals—almost all Americans—involun-
tarily giving up their sacred constitu-
tional right to a trial by jury, to their
day in court, whether they like it or
not. This bill will guarantee that peo-
ple have their rights. They can opt for
arbitration if they want to, but they
don’t have to.
This bill supports liberty; it supports
constitutional rights; and it supports
the little guy against the giant cor-
poration. H.R. 1423, the FAIR Act,
rights these wrongs by reopening the
courthouse door to all Americans.
I applaud the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. JOHNSON) for his leadership on
this legislation which has 222 cospon-
sors.
This measure is also supported by a
broad coalition of more than 70 public-
interest, labor, and advocacy organiza-
tions, including Public Citizen, Con-
sumer Reports, the Communications
Workers of America, the Leadership
Conference on Civil Rights, and the
American Association of Justice, not
just by trial lawyers.
In addition, 84 percent of Americans
across the political spectrum support
ending forced arbitration in employ-
ment and consumer disputes, according
to recent polling data.
Mr. Chairman, it is up to Congress to
end this secretive and unfair practice. I
urge my colleagues to support the
FAIR Act and to restore access to jus-
tice for millions of Americans, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, as a senior
member of the Judiciary Committee, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 1423, the Forced Arbi-
tration Injustice Repeal Act or the FAIR Act.
I support the FAIR Act because it restores
the rights of workers and consumers by mak-
ing forced arbitration between individuals and
corporations illegal.
This would allow individuals the choice as to
how to pursue their rights against a corpora-
tion.
It also means that corporations will know
that when they violate the law, they can be
held publicly accountable.
I have been a champion of FAIR since 2006
when we were discussing the LaVar Arrington
and arbitration process of the National Foot-
ball League Players Association.
Mr. Arrington was an All-Pro linebacker for
the Washington Redskins and the New York
Giants in the NFL.
In 2004, the NFLPA agreed to represent
LaVar Arrington in the matter and retained a
major New York law firm.
I am advised that the law firm did not meet
with LaVar Arrington until shortly before his
non-injury grievance arbitration was scheduled
to be heard.
LaVar Arrington was not impressed with the
performance of his legal representatives, and
after the hearing called NFLPA President
Gene Upshaw to complain.
LaVar Arrington asked Mr. Upshaw, who
had hired a major New York firm, how they
could be his lawyers if they had not even
bothered to meet with him, the client, until
shortly before the arbitration.
LaVar Arrington told Gene Upshaw he was
going to hire his own attorney who could give
him an objective view and did so shortly there-
after.
After LaVar Arrington retained new counsel,
the arbitration was adjourned for the purpose
of pursuing settlement negotiations.
Through the efforts of new counsel, a settle-
ment was reached and Mr. Carl Poston played
an important role in achieving this settlement,
including arranging a meeting with Redskins
Coach Joe Gibbs to explain LaVar Arrington’s
feelings concerning the situation.
Coach Gibbs helped prevail on the Red-
skins to reach an acceptable settlement with
LaVar Arrington.
The settlement provided that no one did
anything wrong or improper and provided for a
new contract for LaVar Arrington under which
he could obtain an additional $4.85 million
under certain conditions, including the right to
void the contract if he made Pro Bowls in the
next four years unless the Redskins paid
LaVar Arrington an additional $3.25 million.
The settlement agreement provided:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.013 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7848 September 20, 2019
‘‘This Agreement shall not be construed as
an admission of liability or a finding of wrong-
doing by any party.’’
As LaVar Arrington has put it, ‘‘[m]y griev-
ance against the Redskins has been settled
on no-fault, win-win resolution.’’
In 2006, when faced with the issues of the
NFLPA’s arbitration procedures, I had the
questions of:
(a) whether the arbitration procedures em-
ployed by the NFLPA are fair;
(b) whether they ensure a neutral arbitrator;
(c) whether adequate opportunity for judicial
review exists; and
(d) whether the procedures comport with the
intent underlying the Federal Arbitration Act
and, if not, what might be a proper legislative
response.
We cannot continue to allow corporations to
bury forced arbitration clauses in employee
handbooks and smart phone apps.
Notably, the bill also applies to small busi-
nesses seeking to protect their rights under
federal antitrust laws.
We know it is a one-sided system and that
corporations write the clauses to be so rigged
so most people give up pursing their rights al-
together.
Corporations choose the forced arbitration
provider, the rules under which the forced ar-
bitration will take place, the state in which the
forced arbitration proceeding will occur, and
the payment terms.
Most people do not know about forced arbi-
tration but even those who are aware have no
say in the process and, because these
clauses apply to most jobs, products, and
services, a person has no choice but to live
with the total depravation of their rights via
forced arbitration or give up the job/product/
service altogether.
I would like to acknowledge a victim of
forced arbitration.
I have been told we are joined by Alexander
Newton, the brother of Andowah Newton from
New York.
Andowah Newton is Vice President, Legal
Affairs at LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton
Inc., a multinational luxury goods conglom-
erate.
For years, Ms. Newton was sexually har-
assed at work by a colleague.
When she formally reported the harassment,
the company demanded she apologize to the
harasser for reporting him and the company
promoted the harasser.
It also began retaliating against her at work.
Ms. Newton had been forced to sign a man-
datory arbitration agreement as part of accept-
ing her offer of employment.
Pursuant to New York’s 2018 law prohibiting
employment agreements that mandate arbitra-
tion of sexual harassment claims, in 2019, Ms.
Newton filed her sexual harassment claims in
New York state court.
The company has moved to compel arbitra-
tion, arguing that the New York law is pre-
empted by federal law and that Ms. Newton
should be forced into mandatory confidential
arbitration proceedings.
Ms. Newton continues to fight the motion to
compel in court.
For Ms. Newton and for all of the victims of
forced arbitration, we need to resolve this in-
justice.
Buried in the fine print of everything from
nursing home admissions forms and credit
card ‘‘agreements,’’ to online click-through
‘‘terms and conditions’’ and employee hand-
books, forced arbitration enables corporations
to evade responsibility and avoid account-
ability.
Forced arbitration means that when a cor-
poration violates the rights of their workers or
consumers, they cannot enforce their rights.
Forced arbitration lets corporations funnel
aggrieved workers and consumers into a pri-
vate and secret system which is designed by
the corporation to be so rigged that most peo-
ple are forced to give up their rights alto-
gether.
We know that because corporations know
that most individuals will simply give up when
faced with a forced arbitration, there is virtually
no incentive for corporations to follow the law,
or to quickly and fairly handle consumer or
worker claims.
The FAIR Act would restore the rights of
workers and consumers by making forced ar-
bitration between individuals and corporations
illegal—meaning that individuals will be re-
turned the choice as to how to pursue their
rights against a corporation.
The FAIR Act also means that corporations
will know that when they violate the law, they
can be held publicly accountable, thereby re-
turning to corporations the powerful incentive
to follow the law in the first place and to treat
people justly and fairly.
Forced arbitration is a private, secretive sys-
tem without any enforceable standards or
legal protections.
There is no public review of decisions to en-
sure the arbitrator got it right.
Federal law does not even require that arbi-
trators have any legal training or even follow
the law and the entire system is unaccount-
able to the public.
American heroes fought hard for fundamen-
tally important laws—such as federal anti-
discrimination laws and laws to protect
servicemembers and their families—but these
laws are now unenforceable.
It is time to close the forced arbitration loop-
hole that gives corporations the power to ig-
nore the laws Congress enacted.
The Supreme Court held that corporations
are allowed to force individuals into arbitration
because the Federal Arbitration Act, which
was passed in 1925—wipes out all rights
under all other laws unless and until Congress
updates that law.
Thus, the FAIR Act simply amends the Fed-
eral Arbitration Act to make clear that workers
and consumers cannot be forced into arbitra-
tion against their will.
This prohibition on forced arbitration would
apply to all workers (no matter how they are
classified by their employer), consumers, and
small businesses seeking to enforce their
rights under antitrust laws.
I urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting H.R. 1423, the ‘‘Forced Arbitration In-
justice Act.’’
The Acting CHAIR. All time for gen-
eral debate has expired.
In lieu of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on the Judiciary, print-
ed in the bill, it shall be in order to
consider as an original bill for purpose
of amendment under the 5-minute rule
an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–32, modified by
the amendment printed in part A of
House Report 116–210. That amendment
in the nature of a substitute shall be
considered as read.
The text of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute is as follows:
H.R. 1423
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Forced Arbitra-
tion Injustice Repeal Act’’ or the ‘‘FAIR Act’’.
SEC. 2. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this Act are to—
(1) prohibit predispute arbitration agreements
that force arbitration of future employment,
consumer, antitrust, or civil rights disputes, and
(2) prohibit agreements and practices that
interfere with the right of individuals, workers,
and small businesses to participate in a joint,
class, or collective action related to an employ-
ment, consumer, antitrust, or civil rights dis-
pute.
SEC. 3. ARBITRATION OF EMPLOYMENT, CON-
SUMER, ANTITRUST, AND CIVIL
RIGHTS DISPUTES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title 9 of the United States
Code is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘CHAPTER 4—ARBITRATION OF EMPLOY-
MENT, CONSUMER, ANTITRUST, AND
CIVIL RIGHTS DISPUTES
‘‘Sec.
‘‘401. Definitions.
‘‘402. No validity or enforceability.’’.
‘‘§ 401. Definitions
‘‘In this chapter—
‘‘(1) the term ‘antitrust dispute’ means a dis-
pute—
‘‘(A) arising from an alleged violation of the
antitrust laws (as defined in subsection (a) of
the first section of the Clayton Act) or State
antitrust laws; and
‘‘(B) in which the plaintiffs seek certification
as a class under rule 23 of the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure or a comparable rule or provi-
sion of State law;
‘‘(2) the term ‘civil rights dispute’ means a dis-
pute—
‘‘(A) arising from an alleged violation of—
‘‘(i) the Constitution of the United States or
the constitution of a State;
‘‘(ii) any Federal, State, or local law that pro-
hibits discrimination on the basis of race, sex,
age, gender identity, sexual orientation, dis-
ability, religion, national origin, or any legally
protected status in education, employment, cred-
it, housing, public accommodations and facili-
ties, voting, veterans or servicemembers, health
care, or a program funded or conducted by the
Federal Government or State government, in-
cluding any law referred to or described in sec-
tion 62(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
including parts of such law not explicitly ref-
erenced in such section but that relate to pro-
tecting individuals on any such basis; and
‘‘(B) in which at least 1 party alleging a vio-
lation described in subparagraph (A) is one or
more individuals (or their authorized represent-
ative), including one or more individuals seek-
ing certification as a class under rule 23 of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure or a com-
parable rule or provision of State law;
‘‘(3) the term ‘consumer dispute’ means a dis-
pute between—
‘‘(A) one or more individuals who seek or ac-
quire real or personal property, services (includ-
ing services related to digital technology), secu-
rities or other investments, money, or credit for
personal, family, or household purposes includ-
ing an individual or individuals who seek cer-
tification as a class under rule 23 of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure or a comparable rule or
provision of State law; and
‘‘(B)(i) the seller or provider of such property,
services, securities or other investments, money,
or credit; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A20SE7.003 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7849
September 20, 2019
‘‘(ii) a third party involved in the selling, pro-
viding of, payment for, receipt or use of infor-
mation about, or other relationship to any such
property, services, securities or other invest-
ments, money, or credit;
‘‘(4) the term ‘employment dispute’ means a
dispute between one or more individuals (or
their authorized representative) and a person
arising out of or related to the work relationship
or prospective work relationship between them,
including a dispute regarding the terms of or
payment for, advertising of, recruiting for, re-
ferring of, arranging for, or discipline or dis-
charge in connection with, such work, regard-
less of whether the individual is or would be
classified as an employee or an independent
contractor with respect to such work, and in-
cluding a dispute arising under any law referred
to or described in section 62(e) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, including parts of such
law not explicitly referenced in such section but
that relate to protecting individuals on any
such basis, and including a dispute in which an
individual or individuals seek certification as a
class under rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure or as a collective action under section
16(b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, or a com-
parable rule or provision of State law;
‘‘(5) the term ‘predispute arbitration agree-
ment’ means an agreement to arbitrate a dispute
that has not yet arisen at the time of the mak-
ing of the agreement; and
‘‘(6) the term ‘predispute joint-action waiver’
means an agreement, whether or not part of a
predispute arbitration agreement, that would
prohibit, or waive the right of, one of the parties
to the agreement to participate in a joint, class,
or collective action in a judicial, arbitral, ad-
ministrative, or other forum, concerning a dis-
pute that has not yet arisen at the time of the
making of the agreement.
‘‘§ 402. No validity or enforceability
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of this title, no predispute arbitration
agreement or predispute joint-action waiver
shall be valid or enforceable with respect to an
employment dispute, consumer dispute, antitrust
dispute, or civil rights dispute.
‘‘(b) APPLICABILITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An issue as to whether this
chapter applies with respect to a dispute shall
be determined under Federal law. The applica-
bility of this chapter to an agreement to arbi-
trate and the validity and enforceability of an
agreement to which this chapter applies shall be
determined by a court, rather than an arbi-
trator, irrespective of whether the party resist-
ing arbitration challenges the arbitration agree-
ment specifically or in conjunction with other
terms of the contract containing such agree-
ment, and irrespective of whether the agreement
purports to delegate such determinations to an
arbitrator.
‘‘(2) COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS.—
Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any arbi-
tration provision in a contract between an em-
ployer and a labor organization or between
labor organizations, except that no such arbitra-
tion provision shall have the effect of waiving
the right of a worker to seek judicial enforce-
ment of a right arising under a provision of the
Constitution of the United States, a State con-
stitution, or a Federal or State statute, or public
policy arising therefrom.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Title 9 of the United States
Code is amended—
(A) in section 1 by striking ‘‘of seamen,’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘interstate commerce’’
and inserting in its place ‘‘of individuals, re-
gardless of whether such individuals are des-
ignated as employees or independent contractors
for other purposes’’,
(B) in section 2 by inserting ‘‘or as otherwise
provided in chapter 4’’ before the period at the
end,
(C) in section 208—
(i) in the section heading by striking ‘‘CHAP-
TER 1; RESIDUAL APPLICATION’’ and inserting
‘‘APPLICATION’’, and
(ii) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘This
chapter applies to the extent that this chapter is
not in conflict with chapter 4.’’, and
(D) in section 307—
(i) in the section heading by striking ‘‘CHAP-
TER 1; RESIDUAL APPLICATION’’ and inserting
‘‘APPLICATION’’, and
(ii) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘This
chapter applies to the extent that this chapter is
not in conflict with chapter 4.’’.
(2) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—
(A) CHAPTER 2.—The table of sections of chap-
ter 2 of title 9, United States Code, is amended
by striking the item relating to section 208 and
inserting the following:
‘‘208. Application.’’.
(B) CHAPTER 3.—The table of sections of chap-
ter 3 of title 9, United States Code, is amended
by striking the item relating to section 307 and
inserting the following:
‘‘307. Application.’’.
(3) TABLE OF CHAPTERS.—The table of chap-
ters of title 9, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘4. Arbitration of Employment, Con-
sumer, Antitrust, and Civil Rights
Disputes ........................................ 401’’.
SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Act, and the amendments made by this
Act, shall take effect on the date of enactment
of this Act and shall apply with respect to any
dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or
after such date.
The Acting CHAIR. No amendment
to that amendment in the nature of a
substitute shall be in order, except
those printed in part B of House Report
116–210. Each such amendment may be
offered only in the order printed in the
report, by a Member designated in the
report, shall be considered read, shall
be debatable for the time specified in
the report, equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an oppo-
nent, shall not be subject to amend-
ment, and shall not be subject to a de-
mand for division of the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. JORDAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 1 printed in
part B of House Report 116–210.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 6, strike lines 16 through 25.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 558, the gentleman
from Ohio (Mr. JORDAN) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Ohio.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, the
amendment addresses a glaring flaw in
the legislation.
The bill strips nonunion employees of
any and all benefits they might gain by
contracts they have signed to arbitrate
their disputes. It says that contracts
which force arbitration for employ-
ment disputes—thereby, contracts
which open a faster, cheaper path of
justice for employees—are no longer
permitted even though research has
shown that employees obtain more fa-
vorable judgments in arbitration than
in court. In court, of course, the aver-
age employee stands to be seriously
outgunned by an employer who has far
more resources to hire costly court-
room counsel.
While the bill takes those benefits
out of the hands of nonunion employ-
ees, it doesn’t do that for union em-
ployees. Predispute, mandatory bind-
ing arbitration contracts negotiated by
unions with employers or with other
unions are left untouched by the bill.
This bill is titled the Forced Arbitra-
tion Injustice Repeal Act, but it should
be titled the forced injustice guarantee
act because the bill enacts injustice be-
tween union and nonunion employees.
Nonunion employees get handed over
to the high-cost plaintiffs’ trial law-
yers and may never be able to afford
their day in court. Union employees
get all the benefits of forcing arbitra-
tion with their employers and don’t
have to make a sacrifice at all like the
nonunion employees do.
Mr. Chairman, the amendment fixes
the hypocritical treatment in the legis-
lation. I urge my colleagues to support
the amendment, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I claim the
time in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from New York is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I rise in
strong opposition to this amendment.
There are more than 60 million work-
ers who make up a majority of non-
union, private sector employees and
who are subject to forced arbitration
clauses. These employees are told that,
if they want to get a job or keep the
job they have, they must sign away
their right to their day in court and
submit to forced arbitration. These
workers have absolutely no choice.
Many of these workers have no idea
that they are subject to forced arbitra-
tion, and even if they are aware, there
is nothing they can do about it; and, of
course, it is not possible for them to
know that they may be victims of sex-
ual assault, wage discrimination, or
other illegal behavior before they begin
employment.
This is a serious power imbalance
which allows companies to unilaterally
impose unfair terms upon nonunion
employees. The FAIR Act aims to put
power back into the hands of these 60
million workers who have been forced
by their employer to sign away their
rights.
But when real choice is part of the
equation, arbitration can be a reason-
able alternative to litigation. Collec-
tive bargaining, which involves mean-
ingful negotiation between the com-
pany and the union, results in a much
different arbitration process and can
produce much different results.
In a 2019 report, the Economic Policy
Institute noted that ‘‘beyond the use of
the world ‘arbitration,’ the system
that organized labor and management
have long been using to resolve dis-
putes has almost nothing in common
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20SE7.002 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7850 September 20, 2019
with the top-down, take-it-or-leave-it
brand of arbitration.’’
b 1015
The collective bargaining process
provides protections that are simply
unavailable to many nonunion work-
ers, such as the ability to reject unfair
employment terms. In collective bar-
gaining, the company cannot just im-
pose its will upon the union. There
must be buy-in on both sides.
When arbitration is agreed to
through collective bargaining, there is
less likely to be an experience gap be-
tween the parties. In nonunion arbitra-
tion, the company continuously inter-
acts with arbitrators, while the em-
ployee may only see the arbitrator
once, if that. And in most cases, the
company gives itself unilateral power
to pick the arbitrator. This creates a
conflict of interest in which the arbi-
trator has a strong incentive to
prioritize the company’s interest by
finding in its favor than to fairly assess
the claim at issue.
The collective bargaining process
looks much different. Like the com-
pany, the union also has the benefit of
being a repeat player in arbitration.
The union understands how the process
works, and it may even have experi-
ence practicing in front of the same ar-
bitrator multiple times.
When the repeat player dynamic ex-
ists on both sides of the arbitration,
the risk that one party will be system-
atically favored over the other is great-
ly reduced.
Furthermore, through collective bar-
gaining, a union can secure a variety of
important protections for workers,
such as requiring truly neutral arbitra-
tors, paid time off for employees to
participate in the arbitration, and
transparent decisionmaking.
Often, union employees are guaran-
teed a multilevel appeals process, low-
ering the risk that an arbitrator will
ignore relevant laws or that there will
be an unjust result.
The concerns that the FAIR Act is
designed to address simply do not
occur in the context of collective bar-
gaining and, therefore, makes no sense
to apply its restrictions to such con-
tracts.
Accordingly, I strongly oppose this
amendment, and I encourage my col-
leagues to vote against this amend-
ment.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chair, I have seen
elected officials change their positions.
I have never seen it happen in 5 min-
utes.
Mr. Chair, 5 minutes ago, the chair-
man of the Committee on the Judiciary
stood up at the end, closing out the de-
bate on the overall legislation before
we got to the amendment debate, and
he said this, ‘‘a bedrock principle in
this country is you get your day in
court.’’ The next word he used was im-
portant. He said, ‘‘all’’ Americans de-
serve their day in court. Now, he just
told us that is not the case.
I guess by ‘‘all,’’ he meant only if you
are nonunion do you get your day in
court. Union people don’t. They have
to abide by these arbitration contracts.
This is really simple. This is about
fairness. If it is good for the goose, it is
good for the gander. That is all we are
saying here.
If the chairman of the Committee on
the Judiciary believes what he just
said 5 minutes ago, then he should be
in support of this amendment.
Or maybe he didn’t mean ‘‘all’’ when
he said ‘‘all’’ Americans deserve their
day in court.
Maybe he didn’t mean ‘‘bedrock prin-
ciple’’ when he said bedrock principle.
Maybe he only meant, Oh, it is a
principle just for some people, which
means, by definition, it is not a prin-
ciple at all.
So I want to know which position the
chairman has; the one he said 5 min-
utes ago, or the one he said 2 minutes
ago.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
If anything, this discussion about
collective bargaining shows that arbi-
tration can be a fair and reasonable
process when there is actual choice on
both sides of the tracks. But for the
majority, the overwhelming majority
of nonunion private sector workers,
that choice simply does not exist.
This amendment fails to comprehend
these critical distinctions between col-
lective bargaining and the take-it-or-
leave-it arbitration clauses that the
majority of workers face. And it fails
to recognize that restoring equity and
choice is exactly what the FAIR Act
claims to do. You cannot compare ap-
ples and oranges, as the gentleman
from Ohio (Mr. JORDAN) tried to do.
Finally, as the AFL–CIO explains,
this amendment, ‘‘would also be di-
rectly contrary to the intent of Con-
gress in both the Wagner and Taft-
Hartley Acts, which encourage the
practice of collective bargaining and
the resolution of contract disputes
through arbitration.’’
And, again, arbitration voluntarily
agreed to by the workers through their
democratically elected union is not the
same as coercive forced arbitration.
Mr. Chair, accordingly, I urge my
colleagues to oppose the amendment,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. JORDAN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Chairman, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Ohio will be post-
poned.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MRS. FLETCHER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 2 printed in
part B of House Report 116–210.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk, and I
ask for its consideration.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 5. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act, or the amendments
made by this Act, shall be construed to pro-
hibit the use of arbitration on a voluntary
basis after the dispute arises.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 558, the gentlewoman
from Texas (Mrs. FLETCHER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Chair, I offer this amendment to
the bill for the simple purpose of clari-
fying its scope and applicability.
The FAIR Act prohibits the enforce-
ment of mandatory pre-dispute arbitra-
tion provisions—forced arbitration—in
contracts involving consumer, employ-
ment, antitrust, and civil rights dis-
putes.
This amendment makes clear that
the FAIR Act applies to pre-dispute
forced arbitration in these disputes,
and not to voluntary arbitration that
is agreed to by the parties in these
cases after a dispute occurs.
It does not apply, as some have sug-
gested, to commercial cases between
businesses; it does not eliminate arbi-
tration altogether, and there are good
reasons for this.
There is certainly a role for the arbi-
tration of disputes and other forms of
alternative dispute resolution. From
my own experience as a lawyer, I un-
derstand the utility arbitration can
provide for businesses to resolve dis-
putes, especially in the context of an
ongoing business relationship.
That is not what the FAIR Act is
about. The FAIR Act is about restoring
access to justice for the people.
It is for consumers and workers.
It is for people whose civil rights
have been violated.
It is for the small business people
who have antitrust claims.
It is for the millions of Americans
who are denied their rights to seek jus-
tice and accountability today because
of forced arbitration.
This amendment makes clear that
the act does not prohibit the option to
participate in arbitration after a dis-
pute has arisen provided that the
agreement to arbitrate the dispute is
voluntary and the parties actually con-
sent.
This amendment anticipates that, for
reasons of their own choosing, some
parties may elect to participate in ar-
bitration after a dispute has arisen on
a voluntary basis and this act does not
prohibit that choice. The amendment
acknowledges the right to consent, but
it must be truly voluntary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.017 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7851
September 20, 2019
When an agreement to arbitrate is a
contract of adhesion, it is not vol-
untary. When an agreement to arbi-
trate is not disclosed, it is not vol-
untary. When an agreement to arbi-
trate is a condition of employment, it
is not voluntary. When an agreement
to arbitrate is forced, it is not vol-
untary. But when actual consent is
given after a dispute arises, parties
with full knowledge may choose to ar-
bitrate.
Fundamentally, the FAIR Act and
this amendment protects the freedom
to contract, the freedom of choice, and
the freedoms granted in our Constitu-
tion including, importantly, its 7th
Amendment.
Mr. Chair, it is for these reasons that
I urge my colleagues to support this
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Chairman, I
rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from North Dakota is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Chair, I ap-
preciate the sentiment, but the amend-
ment is unnecessary. The bill’s terms
clearly already do nothing to prevent
post-dispute arbitration agreements
from being negotiated or enforced, in
theory.
Honestly, the amendment really does
nothing. It is a fig leaf designed to hide
the mischief that is actually being
done by the bill. It pretends to preserve
the possibility of negotiating agree-
ments to arbitrate once disputes arise,
but if this bill succeeds in wiping out
pre-dispute arbitration agreements,
parties will almost never ever arbi-
trate. And the simple reason is, if one
person really wants to be in arbitra-
tion, the other person will be really
disadvantaged by arbitration.
In order to have a post-dispute arbi-
tration, you need both parties to agree.
And the simple fact is, that once a dis-
pute arises, there is always going to be
a benefit for one of the parties to go to
court. And most of the time, it is not
going to be the consumer or the em-
ployee that sees these advantages. It
will be a company or an employee with
the resources to overwhelm a consumer
or an employee in court with dis-
covery, procedure, and expensive law-
yer fees.
And far too often, just the prospect
of that will be enough to dissuade a
consumer or employee from even filing
a lawsuit to begin with, which means
that the parties with the deepest pock-
ets will just be able to get off scot-free.
The reality is, in most disputes, no
matter what venue you are in—you can
be in Federal court, you can be in
State court, you can be in arbitra-
tion—there is going to be unequal bar-
gaining power. Pre-dispute arbitration
gives people with less financial means
in your basic employment dispute, con-
tractual dispute, or consumer dispute,
a venue that is affordable, gets done in
a reasonable amount of time, and al-
lows them to move through.
Now, if you are a company and you
are not forced into that in pre-dispute,
why in the world would you ever agree
to go back there?
Mr. Chair, I urge opposition to this
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Chair, the gen-
tleman from North Dakota’s argument
makes the argument for the FAIR Act,
because the essential point there is
about the ability to contract with
equal bargaining power.
And we have heard debate this entire
morning about the imbalance that ex-
ists with these contracts of adhesion,
these contracts that require arbitra-
tion as a term of employment, and that
there is also somebody who benefits.
And I think what we have seen is ex-
actly what the FAIR Act is designed to
prevent. The idea of equal bargaining
power is not something we see in these
consumer cases, in these employment
cases, and that is exactly what we are
here to protect.
However, we have also seen the argu-
ment that this is the end of arbitra-
tion, and that is simply not the case.
There is a place in our system for peo-
ple who elect to arbitrate, but it must
be with equal bargaining power, and it
must be with full information and vol-
untary compliance.
The amendment simply makes clear
that the FAIR Act does not prohibit ar-
bitration on a voluntary basis after a
dispute arises and can’t be construed to
do so.
Mr. Chair, it is for these reasons that
I urge my colleagues to support the
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Texas (Mrs. FLETCHER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. JORDAN
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, the unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on amendment No. 1 printed in
part B of House Report 116–210 offered
by the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. JOR-
DAN) on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 161, noes 253,
not voting 26, as follows:
[Roll No. 539]
AYES—161
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Grothman
Guthrie
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
Meadows
Meuser
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
NOES—253
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Bacon
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.020 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7852 September 20, 2019
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Miller
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—26
Abraham
Babin
Beatty
Bergman
Buck
Cheney
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Cunningham
Davis, Danny K.
Duffy
González-Colón
(PR)
Hagedorn
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Keller
King (NY)
Marchant
McEachin
Radewagen
Reed
San Nicolas
Shimkus
Thompson (MS)
Weber (TX)
b 1056
Messrs. JOHNSON of Georgia,
O’HALLERAN, Mrs. HAYES, Messrs.
LYNCH and ROSE of New York
changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Messrs. HOLDING, MULLIN, and
PALAZZO changed their vote from
‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr. Chair, on
rollcall No. 539, I mistakenly voted ‘‘no’’ when
I intended to vote ‘‘yes.’’
The Acting CHAIR (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD). The question is on the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute, as amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. Under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
PETERS) having assumed the chair, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Acting Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that that Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the bill (H.R. 1423) to amend title 9 of
the United States Code with respect to
arbitration, and, pursuant to House
Resolution 558, he reported the bill
back to the House with an amendment
adopted in the Committee of the
Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on the
amendment to the amendment re-
ported from the Committee of the
Whole?
If not, the question is on the amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute, as
amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on passage of the bill will
be followed by a 5-minute vote on
agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 225, noes 186,
not voting 23, as follows:
[Roll No. 540]
AYES—225
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—186
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—23
Abraham
Babin
Beatty
Bergman
Buck
Cheney
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Cunningham
Davis, Danny K.
Duffy
Hagedorn
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Keller
King (NY)
Marchant
McEachin
Reed
Shimkus
Thompson (MS)
Weber (TX)
b 1106
So the bill was passed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20SE7.006 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7853
September 20, 2019
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, on rollcall
Votes 539 and 540, I am not recorded be-
cause I was not present in the House. Had I
been present, I would have voted: ‘‘nay’’ on
rollcall No. 539 and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 540.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Speaker, on Sep-
tember 19 and 20, 2019, I was absent from
the House chamber. I returned to my district in
South Carolina to attend to a family matter.
Accordingly, I was unable to vote on three leg-
islative measures on the floor. Had I been
present and voting, I would have voted as fol-
lows: ‘‘aye’’ on rollcall No. 536: H. Res. 564,
On Motion Ordering the Previous Question on
the Rule providing for consideration of H.R.
4378; ‘‘aye’’ on rollcall No. 537: H. Res. 564,
On Passage of the Rule providing for consid-
eration of H.R. 4378; ‘‘aye’’ on rollcall No. 538:
H.R. 4378, On Passage, Making continuing
appropriations for fiscal year 2020, and for
other purposes; ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 539: H.R.
1423, On Agreeing to the Amendment, Jordan
#1 to the Forced Arbitration Injustice Repeal
Act; and ‘‘aye’’ on rollcall No. 540: H.R. 1423,
On Passage, the Forced Arbitration Injustice
Repeal Act.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PERMISSION FOR MEMBER TO BE
CONSIDERED AS FIRST SPONSOR
OF H.R. 463
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that I may here-
after be considered to be the first spon-
sor of H.R. 463, a bill originally intro-
duced by Representative Walter Jones
from North Carolina, for the purposes
of adding cosponsors and requesting
reprintings pursuant to clause 7 of rule
XII.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
HARDER of California). Is there objec-
tion to the request of the gentleman
from California?
There was no objection.
f
REMOVAL OF NAMES OF MEM-
BERS AS COSPONSORS OF H.R.
3193
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the names of
Representative KILDEE from Michigan
and Representative LURIA from Vir-
ginia be removed as cosponsors of H.R.
3193, the Transportation Emergency
Relief Funds Availability Act, of which
I am the sponsor.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
f
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I rise for
the purpose of inquiring of the major-
ity leader the schedule for the week to
come.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER), my friend.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my friend for yielding.
On Tuesday, the House will meet at
12 p.m. for morning-hour debate, and 2
p.m. for legislative business, with votes
postponed until 6:30 p.m.
I remind Members that is Tuesday,
not Monday. We will not be in session
on Monday.
On Wednesday and Thursday, the
House will meet at 10 a.m. for morning-
hour debate and 12 p.m. for legislative
business.
On Friday, the House will meet at 9
a.m. for legislative business. Last votes
of the week are expected no later than
3 p.m.
We will consider several bills under
suspension of the rules, including H.R.
1595, the SAFE Banking Act of 2019, as
amended. The complete list of suspen-
sion bills will be announced by the
close of business today.
The House will consider H.R. 2203, the
Homeland Security Improvement Act,
and H.R. 3525, the U.S. Border Patrol
Medical Screening Standards Act.
These bills will improve how the De-
partment of Homeland Security over-
sees border issues in a humane and re-
sponsible manner, including the care of
children.
Members are of course advised that
there is additional legislation that may
come forward.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for going through the
schedule.
I know the gentleman joins me in ex-
tending our sincere condolences to our
friend, my counterpart as the majority
whip of the House, JIM CLYBURN, on the
loss of his wife, Emily. They were mar-
ried for 58 years, and were a wonderful
family.
b 1115
I know she had been battling for
awhile and she is in a better place, but
for our friend, I know it is a tough
time.
I got to know his daughter Mignon,
who served on the FCC for a number of
years during the Obama administra-
tion, and she definitely learned from
her mom and dad, just a wonderful per-
son.
So, I am sure my friend would join
me to extend our sincere condolences
and our heartfelt prayers to our friend
JIM CLYBURN and his whole family dur-
ing this difficult time with the loss of
his wife.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I know that Mr. CLY-
BURN and the Clyburn family very
much appreciate his condolences and
his remarks.
JIM CLYBURN and I have known each
other for over half a century. His wife,
Emily, he met during the course of the
civil rights struggle. She, too, was a
drum major for justice, as JIM CLYBURN
has been.
She has, as the gentleman pointed
out, been facing health challenges for
some period of time. And, yes, she is in
a better place. But as one who has lost
his spouse, I know what a difficult time
this is for JIM CLYBURN.
I would let all the Members know
that there will be a service in Colum-
bia, a wake, on Sunday at 5 o’clock,
and the funeral will be in Charleston at
11 a.m. I intend to be in attendance.
Any Member, I know, would be wel-
come to be there as well.
JIM CLYBURN has been a giant in this
body. He has been a leader on our side
of the aisle now for almost 20 years,
and before that, a leader of the Con-
gressional Black Caucus and somebody
who has been a strong voice, particu-
larly for rural communities and for
people who are challenged either be-
cause of the color of their skin or their
economic status.
I know that Emily was his partner in
those efforts, as the gentleman knows.
She was a wonderful, warm woman and
will be greatly missed. But the gentle-
man’s observation that she is in a bet-
ter place is one with which I agree, and
I know that JIM CLYBURN agrees as
well.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
for his comments. I know that all
Members join us in sending JIM CLY-
BURN and the family our deepest sym-
pathy and condolences.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, our
hearts will be with him during that
ceremony and service, and we will all
be there for him to lean on us during
these next months. At times it is going
to be difficult, but we appreciate the
fact that he is going to continue to be
with us, but probably be leaning on us
even more.
A wonderful, wonderful family.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to shift
gears and ask the gentleman about the
USMCA trade deal. I know there have
been some more negotiations with Am-
bassador Lighthizer, and just last
week, he had sent a letter in response
to some of the issues that were raised
by the Speaker and her team that is
working on USMCA. I know he worked
in those weeks after the initial re-
quests were made to try to see how
each of those can be addressed, hope-
fully in a way that allows us to move
forward with an actual vote on the
House floor on USMCA.
Mr. Speaker, I just want to inquire if
the gentleman has any timetable or up-
date on where we are in those talks.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.025 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7854 September 20, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his question.
I don’t have a timetable, but I share
his view that we want to move this
along. As I told him, and the Speaker
was on the floor, we were trying to get
to ‘‘yes’’ on this.
Again, we appreciate Ambassador
Lighthizer’s good faith. We think he
has been dealing in good faith on behalf
of the administration and on behalf of
getting to an agreement, so we appre-
ciate that.
Mr. Speaker, as the gentleman
knows, we are eager to update and im-
prove NAFTA so that it functions bet-
ter for the American businesses and
workers. However, for House Demo-
crats, as the gentleman knows, getting
NAFTA 2.0 done right means doing
more than just changing its name. We
need to make sure it changes actually
its work, and by that, we mean en-
forcement.
Both the Speaker and I voted for
NAFTA. We were concerned and dis-
appointed that the sidebars were not
carried out, so we are pursuing that.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, as
the gentleman knows, has said: ‘‘The
commitments in the trade pact aren’t
worth the paper they are written on if
they can’t be enforced.’’
Not only do we agree with that, but
that has been our experience, so we are
hoping that we get mechanisms to ac-
complish that objective.
In 25 years, we have only had one suc-
cessful enforcement action under
NAFTA—dispute resolution proce-
dures—and none in the past 20 years, so
that is why we believe enforcement is
so very important.
Mr. Speaker, I will tell the gen-
tleman—and I know he will find this as
a positive—there is a meeting today
with the task force that was set up by
the Speaker, headed by Mr. NEAL, with
Mr. Lighthizer, so this process is under
active and vigorous consideration.
We hope we get to a place where the
administration will be able to submit,
pursuant to the statute, the proper
agreement so that we can proceed on
it, but we want to get this done.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I would
just encourage those talks to move as
quickly as they can, because as we
share the interest of making sure that
not only do we have better agreements,
which this USMCA deal that was nego-
tiated with Mexico and Canada does
have better provisions for the United
States, we need to make sure that
there is proper enforcement, because if
somebody doesn’t follow through, then
we need to make sure we can hold them
accountable.
While I am confident that there are
already enforcement provisions in the
agreement, if they can be made strong-
er, I know Ambassador Lighthizer is
working to find a way to do that, but
also in a way that doesn’t start the
whole process over, where we don’t
have to open the entire agreement up
and then Mexico, which has already
ratified it, would have to go back. Can-
ada stands waiting to move on it as
well, but right now, we are the holdup.
There are a lot of jobs at stake, over
160,000 jobs. Our farmers are counting
on this. So many other manufacturing
sectors in our economy are counting on
this.
So, hopefully, we can move quickly
to work through these and then ulti-
mately get it passed and move to the
next countries that want to enter into
agreements with the United States,
and ultimately to confront China, to
resolve the differences that we are hav-
ing with China.
But I know the gentleman is working
on his side. And, again, I would just en-
courage that we do that as quickly as
possible and expedite it and then get it
passed, but we will continue working
on that.
Something else we would like to
work on in a more bipartisan way is
drug pricing.
The President has been very clear
that he wants a bipartisan bill that is
worked out here in Congress to lower
drug prices. There have been many ef-
forts made and, in fact, positive steps
taken by the Energy and Commerce
Committee to pass a package of bills
out of committee unanimously to
lower drug prices.
Unfortunately, the Speaker took a
different turn and, yesterday, had a
press conference and then ultimately
filed a bill last night, H.R. 3, which was
written in secret. Many Democrats
don’t even know what is in it.
But no Republicans were consulted
and involved in the process, and it
ended up becoming a very partisan bill,
much to the socialist left, which
wouldn’t solve the problem and, more
importantly, wouldn’t get to the Presi-
dent’s desk because it is not an effort
that involved any bipartisan coopera-
tion.
Again, I point out there was a pack-
age of bills that passed unanimously
out of Energy and Commerce that
would lower drug prices. Both parties
agreed. Every single member on the
Energy and Commerce Committee
agreed. Unfortunately, that was
shelved in lieu of this partisan ap-
proach.
I would hope that we take it more se-
riously than that and actually work to-
gether to get a bill that the President
can sign to lower drug prices as quick-
ly as possible. The approach that was
taken yesterday does not answer this
call, and I would hope we would do bet-
ter.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, let me first say, if the
gentleman wants to pursue bipartisan-
ship—I know that they all want to use
the word ‘‘socialist,’’ which was egre-
giously misidentified in an ad that I
wrote to Mr. SCALISE about, which was
a hateful ad. My suggestion is ‘‘lib-
eral,’’ this, that, and the other.
The drug bill that we have is going to
be dealing with private sector pro-
ducers, privately owned, of prescription
drugs.
This is not anything about socialism,
but I know the gentleman wants to use
that word. I know his advisers appar-
ently have told him that is going to be
a catchword that politically will be
great for the next election. But if the
gentleman wants to seek bipartisan-
ship, let’s just not try to color every-
thing we say in terms that clearly reek
of partisanship, not bipartisanship.
Now, as to the bill itself, very frank-
ly, we introduced a bill yesterday. The
committee has been working on it.
When I say ‘‘the committee,’’ the En-
ergy and Commerce, the Education and
Labor, and the Ways and Means Com-
mittees have all been working on this
bill. There has been no secret about it.
We have been discussing it.
It has three components, essentially,
as the gentleman knows. It has a com-
ponent of negotiation, which, of course,
as the gentleman knows, the Veterans
Administration does so right now.
I don’t know whether the gentleman
thinks that is socialism in the Vet-
erans Administration—maybe he
does—but in any event, it is not a
unique proposal. It puts inflation lim-
its on drug prices so we can’t have drug
prices that people need to maintain
their health and their lives increase
100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 700, 800 percent in
a very short period of time. We don’t
think that is really what ought to hap-
pen.
Lastly, it restructures the medical
part D benefit to cap out-of-pocket
spending for seniors, somewhat as the
Republicans did with their part D
under President Bush.
So this is a proposal that is doing
what we said we would do in the last
election, and that is to try to look at
bringing down the cost of prescription
drugs, lifesaving, life-enhancing,
health-enhancing drugs, so that people
are not priced out of the market or
have to make a choice between food,
mortgage, rent, and the prescription
drugs which they need to be healthy.
Now, I agree that we do need a bipar-
tisan solution, but so does the Presi-
dent of the United States. When the
gentleman says ‘‘done in secret,’’ let
me give a quote that the President of
the United States says: ‘‘I like Senator
GRASSLEY’s drug pricing bill very
much. . . . ‘’
I will say, I do not know the depths
of Senator GRASSLEY’s bill, but it is
Senator GRASSLEY’s bill, the Repub-
lican chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee.
Now, continuing to quote the Presi-
dent: ‘‘ . . . and it’s great to see Speak-
er PELOSI’s bill today.’’
That is the ‘‘socialist’’ bill to which
the gentleman referred just now.
Let’s get it done in a bipartisan way.
In other words, what the President of
the United States is saying is the Re-
publican chairman of the Senate Fi-
nance Committee has introduced a bill;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.027 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7855
September 20, 2019
Speaker PELOSI and others have intro-
duced a bill. Let’s try to work together
on those bills. That is what President
Trump said just the other day. That is
what I expect we are going to do.
So I appreciate the gentleman’s com-
ments. We hope we can work in a bipar-
tisan way, because this is a very crit-
ical challenge that the American peo-
ple face. They know they need these
prescription drugs to stay alive, to
stay well, to be able to continue to
work. But if they are priced out of the
market, they suffer; and, therefore, our
economy suffers; and, therefore, we all
suffer.
So I share the gentleman’s view that
I hope we can get this done in a bipar-
tisan way. Senator GRASSLEY has a
proposal; we have a proposal. Let’s see
what we can do together to assist the
American people in having something
that they absolutely must have.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, there are
a number of items to address there.
First, clearly, there is kind of a re-
coil that seems to happen by Mr.
HOYER and a number of others on the
other side when the term ‘‘socialism’’
is used to identify the policies that are
being—
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, will the
gentleman yield to me?
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I wrote the
gentleman a letter. Did he believe that
that ad that I complained about and
that I thought was so egregious, so dis-
gusting, does he agree with me that
that ad totally misrepresented what
socialism is? It deluded the American
people. It was a big lie. Does the gen-
tleman agree with me?
b 1130
Mr. SCALISE. First of all, I haven’t
seen the ad the gentleman is referring
to. But if he wants to start going
through ads and he wants me to send
him some ads where people on his side
lie about positions that Members on
our side have taken, I will be happy to
give him a litany of false ads, mis-
leading ads, then we can go back and
forth on that.
But if he is trying to hide from the
term ‘‘socialism’’ when he promotes so-
cialist policies, we can have a debate
about what socialism is. It is an ide-
ology, it is not a word that is thrown
around, and it involves government
control of your life.
So when you move bills like the
Green New Deal or when you see a
Presidential candidate on your side
running around saying he is going to
go to people’s houses and take their
guns—that is a candidate for President
of the United States on your side—
those are socialist policies. If the gen-
tleman doesn’t want the term applied,
then don’t promote that ideology,
don’t embrace that ideology, reject the
ideology. But he won’t.
You want to try to play it both ways.
You want to try to act like you are
going to impeach the President, but
say you are not going to impeach the
President. You want to promote the
Green New Deal, but you don’t want to
bring it to the floor, so your Members
don’t have to be exposed to the vote.
But, ultimately, as long as the gen-
tleman is going to embrace and allow
socialist ideas to come forward, people
are going to call it for what it is. And
if the gentleman doesn’t agree with so-
cialism, then just stop embracing the
ideology and the actual policies.
So when the gentleman talks about a
bill where the President said—and he
read it and I will read it again—let’s
get it done in a bipartisan way; the bill
that was filed by Speaker PELOSI yes-
terday was not a bipartisan bill, it was
a hyperpartisan bill. So we are talking
about the House bill. The Senate bill is
still a work in progress. And we all
know how the Senate works. Maybe
they produce a bill and maybe they
don’t, but it is not a final product.
The bill that was filed on your side,
yesterday, is a bill that most of your
own Members haven’t even seen, be-
cause it was written in secret only
from a very far left approach. When
Speaker PELOSI, yesterday, was asked
if she is willing to negotiate a bill that
doesn’t allow the government to nego-
tiate prices, she said, ‘‘no, absolutely,
positively no,’’ so she is not even will-
ing to negotiate.
That is not bipartisan. That is not an
approach that is going to get a bill
signed into law to lower drug prices.
You want to lower drug prices. We
worked together.
By the way, Ranking Member WAL-
DEN was not even consulted, but Rank-
ing Member WALDEN worked with
Chairman PALLONE to bring bills out of
Energy and Commerce, for example, to
stop a process that currently is legal
that allows drug companies, right be-
fore the patent expires, when the drug
is about to become available for
generics, companies, of course, go and
make the generic drug. And, right now,
the process of the FDA is for a period
of time, usually a rolling 6 months, one
company is given the exclusive rights
to provide the generic for a period of
time. Ultimately, other companies are
allowed in. But for the first period of
months and months, it could be years,
only one company has the exclusive
right to do the generic. And the drug
companies are allowed to pay the ge-
neric company not to sell the product.
So you only have the original drug.
You don’t have the generic available
because the companies can pay the
company not to make the generic.
We have a bill called No Pay for
Delay. We make it illegal for the drug
companies to pay the generics not to
make generics. That will lower drug
prices.
We also improve the process where
you can get the drugs to the generic
companies earlier so they can make
the product. For the companies to ac-
tually make a generic, you have to
have available the details of what is in
the drug so you can make the generic.
And, a lot of times, the companies
don’t give that information to the ge-
neric company, so it is harder to get
generics, which are lower prices.
It is not the government coming in
saying, if you think you know what a
drug price should cost, or any product
should cost, good luck out there in the
marketplace. But if you want to stifle
innovation, if you want to stifle the
ability to actually go and invest and
have companies come up with life-
saving drugs, it costs billions of dol-
lars. If you want to lower drug prices,
work with us to reform the FDA proc-
ess so that it doesn’t take 10 years and
$5 billion to develop a drug.
There are real things that can be
done in a bipartisan way to address
that, and yet the gentleman’s party
won’t do that. They want to sit in a
room and come up with a bill that no-
body else has seen, that no Republicans
were allowed to be a part of, that is not
going to become law. So there is a way
to lower drug prices.
And, again, there was a package of
bills passed out of Energy and Com-
merce, every single Member, Repub-
lican and Democrat, voted for it. That
is the path right there to get some-
thing done and you shelved the bills.
You threw poison pills on the bill, so
they won’t become law.
Why not work with people who have
the expertise and come to an agree-
ment? That bill could be signed by the
President today. People could be pay-
ing lower prices for drugs today, but
you won’t bring that bill to the floor.
Why not bring that package of bills to
the floor?
If you want to come up with other
ideas to lower drug prices in other
ways, great, let’s work on that, too.
But, at a minimum, bring the bills that
already came out of committee unani-
mously, that absolutely everybody
agrees, Republican and Democrat, will
lower drug prices, and you refuse to
bring that bill to the floor, that pack-
age. Why not do that?
Mr. Speaker, will the gentleman con-
sider bringing that package of bills
that was unanimous out of committee
to lower drug prices? Every Republican
and every Democrat agreed on the
committee of jurisdiction that these
things will lower drug prices, and we
can’t get a vote on that.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, we brought
a bill to the floor that the gentleman
spoke about that prohibited pay for
delay, prohibited drug companies from
paying generics not to bring their
drugs to the market so that drug prices
would be lower for consumers.
Mr. Speaker, of the 194 Republicans,
maybe even 98 Republicans—I don’t
know how many were elected at that
point in time—5 of them voted for it,
190 voted against it.
Mr. SCALISE also said that we wanted
to protect that no one with a pre-
existing condition would be denied
healthcare. Five Republicans voted for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.028 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7856 September 20, 2019
that bill. Six years, the Republicans,
Mr. Speaker, were in charge, totally.
There was no effort to bring a bill to
this floor to bring drug prices down.
And, in fact, Americans know drug
prices didn’t come down. The President
was a Republican, the House was Re-
publican, the Senate was Republican.
They didn’t bring a bill to the floor,
Mr. Speaker.
Two of the three proposals in our bill
are also in the Grassley bill.
And, Mr. Speaker, we are going to
have regular order. We have introduced
a bill, it is going to go to committee, it
is going to be subject to amendment, it
is going to be subject to debate, it is
going to be subject to hearings.
Now, we will see whether it is a bi-
partisan process. Because, very frank-
ly, the record of bipartisanship when
the Republicans were in charge is pret-
ty absent.
Of the 19 major bills that we passed,
we got 618 Republican votes, so they
weren’t too partisan. Now, admittedly,
about 400 of those votes were on four
bills that went through this place in a
very bipartisan fashion.
So I would hope that we see biparti-
sanship when the committee marks up
this bill, and we will do what the Presi-
dent says he wants to do. We will see
whether he supports that.
They have the Grassley bill and now
you have a Democratic bill in our
House. They are going to have hearings
in the Senate, led by Republicans, Mr.
Speaker. We will have hearings here,
led by Democrats. But Republicans and
Democrats will both participate in
those hearings, and it is going to be bi-
partisan, and we will see whether we
can come up with bipartisanship.
But the gentleman continues to want
to make some political patina with
this, some partisan patina, Mr. Speak-
er. I asked him, but he didn’t respond.
He says he hasn’t seen the ad. I wish he
would look at the ad. It is an egregious
piece of political diatribe. But I would
hope that he would also urge his Mem-
bers to work together.
And this business we negotiate for
drugs right now, Mr. Speaker, through
the Veterans Administration to ensure
that our veterans get the best cost
they can get. Apparently, that is okay,
but doing the same thing, Mr. Speaker,
for American consumers of prescription
drugs who are not veterans is somehow
characterized by the gentleman as gov-
ernment control.
I urge the gentleman to proceed, as
he speaks, on a bipartisan basis and see
whether or not we can get to an agree-
ment in this House. But we are going
to pass something to bring drug prices
down for the American consumer be-
cause that is what we promised to do,
and we are going to do it. We hope we
can do it in cooperation with every-
body in this House, but we are going to
do it.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I hope
the gentleman is not going to try to
use the VA as the standard of care that
every American should get. We saw the
scandals at the VA, veterans dying
waiting to get care.
We actually passed legislation this
Congress that got signed into law last
Congress to allow veterans to go to an-
other hospital that can actually treat
them if the VA is not doing the job.
And I know a number of people in the
gentleman’s party oppose that, but our
veterans appreciated it. While you
might be able to get good care at some
VA hospitals, there were—and the
scandals, you have seen the ads, those
aren’t false ads—veterans literally
dying waiting to get into VA hospitals,
and the VA was telling us there was no
secret list when, in fact, there were se-
cret lists that were not allowing these
veterans to get proper care.
So the VA CHOICE Act was passed
specifically to address that problem
and, ultimately, allow our veterans to
be able to go to another hospital if the
VA isn’t properly taking care of them.
Our veterans deserve the best care. If a
VA hospital can’t provide it, then
someone else should, and, in fact, now
other hospitals are. Our veterans have
asked for that and now have that abil-
ity.
But if the gentleman wants to talk
about bipartisanship, again, I go back
to the bills that passed out of com-
mittee unanimously. When those bills
came to the floor, they were changed
to make them partisan. And if he
thinks 5 Republicans out of 197 is bi-
partisan, I think he needs to go and
look back at what, ultimately, is going
to allow a bill to become law. To be-
come law, it is going to have to have a
lot more support than that, which
means the games have to stop being
played. The poison pills can’t be put in
a bill and then expect that to become
law. You can pass it out of the House,
and it will never become law.
So the ultimate goal, I would hope,
would be for us to come together to get
a bill to the President’s desk. The bills
that came out of committee unani-
mously could have absolutely gotten to
the President’s desk and would be low-
ering drug prices. Once you start add-
ing things to them—maybe you get a
few Republicans here and there—but
ultimately you took an unanimous bill
and made it a partisan bill and it is not
going anywhere.
So there is a path, if you want to get
it back on track, to get a bill to the
President’s desk. You can make state-
ment, or you can make law, and I
would hope we do both. I hope we actu-
ally work together to make something
come together that not just can pass
the House and barely get it across the
finish line, but where we can get over-
whelming support. The ability is there.
And those bills, by the way, took
years to come together, just like the
21st Century Cures Act, a bill that took
a long time to put together when we
were in the majority, but, ultimately,
got to the desk of Barack Obama, and
he signed it. It is great law. It is some-
thing that, ultimately, is going to help
us cure major diseases, and we came
together to get that done. It is law. It
wasn’t just a bill that we passed out of
the House in a partisan way. We
worked with Democrats and we got it
done. It is on the books now.
So I would hope, if we are looking at
models to use, that we look at the
models of those bills that have actually
made it all the way through the proc-
ess where we worked with people on
both sides and solved real problems.
That should be the objective. Not to
make a statement and just work with a
few people here and there when you
have a roadmap for something that can
be overwhelmingly passed out of this
House and then get to the President’s
desk.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
b 1145
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, the gentleman didn’t
answer my question, of course.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I ask the
gentleman: What was the question? I
yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, it has
nothing to do with the standard of care
at the VA, managed by the administra-
tion, which, of course, has had the
Presidency for the last 3 years.
Whether you pay $5 for prescription
drugs or $50 for prescription drugs, that
is not the standard of care. That is how
much you are paying for the drug that
you think helps either a veteran or a
nonveteran.
But let me say this: The gentleman
keeps talking about, Mr. Speaker,
these bipartisan bills. The reason they
weren’t bipartisan in passing this
House is because we added ACA protec-
tions.
We added preexisting condition pro-
visions to those bills, and the Repub-
licans, therefore, voted against. Why?
Because they have been against the Af-
fordable Care Act and its adoption,
against it in the campaigns.
When they had the opportunity to
change it, they couldn’t do it. They
came up with a goose egg, Mr. Speaker.
The President said, during the course
of the campaign, that he was going to
present a bill that included coverage
for every American at a lower cost and
a higher quality. I tell the press, as
soon as he sends that bill down, Mr.
Speaker, I am going to vote for it. He
has been President now for 3 years, a
little short of that. No bill has come
down.
The bill that the Speaker and major-
ity leader went down to the White
House and cheered about, look, we
passed this bill, and they sent it to the
Senate. The President was there at the
White House. It was a great bill, and
within 14 days, he called it a ‘‘mean’’
bill.
Let me tell you what the President
further said, Mr. Speaker, and the
characterization differs from the char-
acterization that my friend, the Repub-
lican whip, exhibited. The President
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.031 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7857
September 20, 2019
endorsed Medicare drug price negotia-
tions in his campaign and put forward
a proposal to use international prices
as a guide to limit out-of-control U.S.
prices. That is what the gentleman’s
President said.
The administration has endorsed the
other two concepts of inflation limits
on drug prices and improving Medicare
part D as part of the legislation put
forward by Senator GRASSLEY.
I guess everybody has their own defi-
nition of bipartisanship.
Mr. SCALISE. Well, clearly, as the
gentleman talks about the Grassley
bill that is moving through the Senate,
let them do their work. Let them find
a way to come together with their 60-
vote rule and produce a bipartisan bill.
I encourage them to do that. They
haven’t yet, but I encourage them to
do that.
When the gentleman talks about the
ACA, let’s be clear, because the vast
majority of people on the gentleman’s
side now—especially in the Presi-
dential campaign, the Democratic can-
didates for President—are not talking
about the ACA anymore. They are
talking about what is referred to as
Medicare for All.
I will yield in a moment, but if the
gentleman read the bill, Medicare for
All, number one, it gets rid of the pri-
vate insurance marketplace. Over 180
million people lose that healthcare.
Then, if you look at Medicare Advan-
tage, an incredibly popular and suc-
cessful part of Medicare is gone. It goes
away.
So 200 million people lose what they
have now that they like, and everybody
is placed in Medicare, which, as we all
know, pays below-market rates. Most
rural hospitals said they will close. If
that bill passes, they can’t even oper-
ate. They will close because they can’t
continue to run and make any kind of
profit. They lose money, and they ulti-
mately close down. They have said it.
People know, people understand, how
the healthcare marketplace works.
Know that if you get rid of the private
insurance market, that is what is pay-
ing for Medicare and Medicaid today.
Medicare for All, which, again, is the
catchphrase that is being used by every
Presidential candidate on the gentle-
man’s side, and maybe they all want to
have their own version of it, is a far
different place than even the ACA.
We can continue and will continue to
have a debate about the best way to fix
our broken healthcare system, and
focus on lowering prices and protecting
people with preexisting conditions, but
in a way that you can actually let peo-
ple choose their own plans and buy
whatever they want from wherever
they want it.
That is how people get all other prod-
ucts. Healthcare, for various reasons,
doesn’t work that way. But, clearly, on
the drug-pricing side, there have been a
lot of good ideas that came together
that would be proven to lower drug
prices.
If we want to get into the high cost,
which I agree is a problem, let’s look at
the fundamental reasons why it costs
billions of dollars, instead of maybe
hundreds of millions of dollars, to cre-
ate a new lifesaving drug.
There are reasons that the cost is so
high to bring a drug to market. Thank
goodness there are companies that are
out there that are willing to invest bil-
lions of dollars. Sometimes they don’t
succeed, by the way, and they have to
eat that cost. But if they do succeed in
finding a new drug that will save lives,
it typically costs billions of dollars and
years and years of bureaucratic red
tape and other processes that they
have to go through to finally bring
that drug to market.
That is where we should focus our en-
ergies, on compressing that process so
it can happen quicker, addressing other
problems within the way that a drug
comes to market so that it doesn’t cost
billions of dollars, and we can have
more lifesaving drugs at lower costs.
If we are going to ignore that side of
the equation and say: Here, we are just
going to set the price without address-
ing the fundamental problems that are
leading to such high costs, then all
that is going to happen is that nobody
is going to make the investment to go
find the next lifesaving drug.
You will never know what could have
happened. We see every day there are
amazing breakthroughs in medical
technology, and we want to continue
encouraging that.
Something like the 21st Century
Cures Act actually achieves it. Again,
we came together to put that bill into
law to now allow for lifesaving drugs,
especially in areas like cancer, Alz-
heimer’s, and ALS. We are going to get
real big breakthroughs. There are al-
ready some big breakthroughs because
of that.
I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I have
nothing more to say.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I know
we will have more debates next week
over the limited number of items com-
ing to the floor. Hopefully, some of
these other items can get addressed in
a bipartisan way, but I know there are
other battles ahead, and we will do our
part to try to come together to address
these problems.
If the gentleman has nothing else,
then I yield back the balance of my
time.
f
ADJOURNMENT FROM FRIDAY,
SEPTEMBER 20, 2019, TO TUES-
DAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet on Tuesday next, when it shall
convene at noon for morning-hour de-
bate and 2 p.m. for legislative business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
REMEMBERING MARKIYA SIMONE
DICKSON
(Ms. SPANBERGER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to tell the story of Markiya
Simone Dickson.
She was an energetic, kind, and
spunky 9-year-old girl. She was a be-
loved daughter and an adored sister.
She was in third grade, and she was
preparing to sing a Justin Bieber song
in her school’s upcoming talent show.
On May 26, 2019, Markiya and her
family attended a community picnic in
Richmond, Virginia. From across the
park, a random gunshot went through
the crowd, and this senseless, cruel act
of gun violence took Markiya’s life.
During and since this unimaginable
time, Markiya’s parents, Mark Whit-
field and Ciara Dickson, have dem-
onstrated extraordinary strength, de-
termination, and courage. They con-
tinue fighting to ensure Markiya’s
name and her beautiful life are never
forgotten.
They stand by their steadfast wish to
fight back against gun violence in our
communities so that other parents will
never have to experience the pain that
they feel following Markiya’s death.
Markiya was beloved by those who
knew her, and the Richmond, Virginia,
community stands with her family at
this time. Together, we share her
story; we mourn her death; and we
promise to fight for safer communities
for all our children.
f
RECOGNIZING 75 YEARS SINCE
HANFORD’S B REACTOR WENT
CRITICAL
(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize an important anni-
versary in our Nation’s nuclear and
military history.
At the start of the atomic age, thou-
sands of men and women, our Cold War
patriots, moved to central Washington
State to work on a top-secret govern-
ment project, building the world’s first
full-scale nuclear reactor.
During World War II, Hanford, Wash-
ington, was selected as one of the three
sites for the Manhattan Project, and
September 26 marks the 75th year since
the B Reactor went critical at the Han-
ford site.
Since then, the Tri-Cities has grown
as a hub for innovation, with an appre-
ciation of the past and an excitement
for the future, transforming into the
fastest growing economy in Wash-
ington State.
The B Reactor has been converted
into the centerpiece of the Manhattan
National Historical Park, where all are
welcome to experience its history.
But the work at the Hanford site
must continue as the Federal Govern-
ment has a moral and legal obligation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.033 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7858 September 20, 2019
to clean up the country’s largest nu-
clear waste site.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in thanking the Cold War pa-
triots at Hanford for their important
contributions to our country.
f
COMMENDING ATLANTIC CITY
HIGH SCHOOL TRACK AND FIELD
TEAM
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, the
Atlantic City High School track and
field team is comprised of some incred-
ibly driven athletes.
Claudine Smith and Isaiah Whaley,
both graduating seniors, were espe-
cially impressive contributors to their
team’s success.
During her time on the team,
Claudine won three State, seven south
Jersey, six Cape-Atlantic League, and
six Atlantic County championships. It
is unbelievable. With these accomplish-
ments closing out her high school ca-
reer, it is no wonder she was named the
Press Girls Outdoor Track and Field
Athlete of the Year.
Isaiah, too, surpassed many records
during his time. He broke his school’s
26-year-old record in the 400-meter dash
and ranked number five in the State of
New Jersey for the event.
These students are incredibly tal-
ented, and their head coaches, Roy
Wesley, Jr., and Jonathan P. Parker,
undoubtedly helped them develop and
grow in their sport.
To all the members of the Atlantic
County track and field team, we are
immensely proud of your hard work
and determination, and we can’t wait
to see what you all achieve in the fu-
ture.
We are proud of you in Atlantic
County. We are proud of you in south
Jersey. We are proud of you in New
Jersey. And we are proud of you in the
United States of America.
f
FINANCIAL SERVICES ARBITRA-
TION IS BETTER FOR CON-
SUMERS
(Mr. BARR asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to explain my opposition and vote
against the bill that was on the floor
earlier today, H.R. 1423, the Forced Ar-
bitration Injustice Repeal Act. I would
like to highlight its negative impact on
financial services.
Financial services providers and
their customers use arbitration to set-
tle disputes because it is easier, faster,
and less costly for consumers than liti-
gation. Forcing parties into litigation
would dramatically extend the time be-
fore a customer is made whole and
would significantly increase legal fees
for all parties.
These increased costs are ultimately
passed along to consumers through
higher fees and fewer options, and they
would negatively impact any American
who has a bank account, credit card, or
retirement plan. We have had that de-
bate before.
Dodd-Frank directed that the Con-
sumer Financial Protection Bureau
promulgate a rule on mandatory arbi-
tration. While Congress overturned
that rule in 2017 because it would ad-
versely impact consumers, the Obama
administration’s own study found that
the average consumer receives approxi-
mately $5,400 through arbitration and
only $32 through a class action lawsuit.
That means the average customer who
prevailed in arbitration received 166
times more than the average class
member in class action settlements.
Mr. Speaker, my time has expired,
but I would urge opposition to this
wrongheaded idea in the United States
Senate.
b 1200
RECOGNIZING BURMA BEAL’S
100TH BIRTHDAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. FLORES) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Burma Beal of
Bryan, Texas, who turned 100 years old
on September 15, 2019.
Burma Faye Ellis Beal was born Sep-
tember 15, 1919, in Jewett, Texas, to
Wade and Susan Ellis. She grew up in
Jewett and was known as the girl who
climbed to the top of the water tower
when she was just 12 years old. She
graduated from Jewett High School as
salutatorian in 1936, where she played
tennis and participated in the Texas
State tournament for this sport.
In 1937, Burma graduated from the
Austin Beauty School. Just a year
later, she married Oren Beal. Together,
they would have 3 children, 6 grand-
children, and 12 great-grandchildren.
After moving to Bryan, Texas,
Burma owned and operated Burma’s
Beauty Shop for 46 years. In that time,
she forged many strong friendships.
Burma was deeply involved in her com-
munity and her church, Central Church
in Bryan-College Station.
Burma and Oren also loved sup-
porting the Texas A&M Aggies and
were season ticket holders for football
and basketball games for more than 35
years.
Through their church, Burma and
Oren took part in the Adoptive Grand-
parent Program, in which they be-
friended students at Texas A&M. They
formed such a strong bond with one
young Aggie that she asked Burma and
Oren to be a bridesmaid and
groomsman in her wedding.
Burma is well-known among her
loved ones for two things: her love for
Coca-Cola and her world-famous peanut
brittle. She has collected many pieces
of Coca-Cola memorabilia and still
drinks a Coke every day. Also, every
year, from October until Christmas,
Burma is known for making delicious
peanut brittle to give to friends and
family, as well as her doctor, the post-
man, the staff at her HEB store, bank-
ers, pharmacists, and many more. Her
recipe is so good that, when her son-in-
law took it to the Texas State Fair, it
won third prize.
Burma has a giving spirit and aspires
to bring joy to others. During her nine-
ties, she made regular trips to nursing
homes to visit with their residents and
went grocery shopping for a home-
bound neighbor. Even now, as a resi-
dent of Crestview Retirement Home in
Bryan, she spreads cheer to her friends.
She prays for a long list of people every
night and spends her time showing
Jesus’ love to others.
Mr. Speaker, Burma Beal has lived a
long life filled with love, joy, and serv-
ice to others. I am proud to recognize
her on this joyous occasion, and I know
that her family and friends love her
and are proud of her. I wish Burma
many more years of health and happi-
ness.
I have requested that a United States
flag be flown over our Nation’s Capitol
to recognize Burma Beal’s 100th birth-
day.
As I close today, I urge all Americans
to continue to pray for our country, for
our veterans, for our military men and
women who protect us, and for our first
responders who keep us safe at home.
HONORING SERGEANT MAJOR JAMES SARTOR
Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Sergeant Major James
Gregory ‘‘Ryan’’ Sartor of Teague,
Texas.
Sergeant Major Sartor was killed on
July 13, 2019, after he sustained injuries
from enemy fire in Faryab province,
Afghanistan.
Sergeant Major Sartor was born Sep-
tember 23, 1978, in Teague, Texas, to
James Sartor and Mary Teresa ‘‘Terri’’
Pryor. He was an excellent football
player and graduated from Teague
High School in 1997.
After graduation, he moved to Col-
lege Station to work, where, in the fall
of 2000, he met the love of his life and
future spouse, Deanna Unger. They
married in 2002 and were blessed with
three children: Stryder, Grace, and
Garrett.
Shortly after Sergeant Major Sartor
and Deanna started dating, he joined
the United States Army. He was de-
ployed to Iraq for the first time in 2002
as an infantryman assigned to the 3rd
Infantry Division. In 2005, Sergeant
Major Sartor became a Green Beret
and was assigned to A Company, 2nd
Battalion, 10th Special Forces Group,
Airborne, in Fort Carson, Colorado. He
was stationed there with his family for
the last 14 years.
During his career, Sergeant Major
Sartor was deployed several times, re-
turning to Iraq in 2006, 2007, 2009, and
from 2010 to 2011. He also deployed to
Germany and Israel in 2008, to Africa in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.034 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7859
September 20, 2019
2012 and 2013, and to Afghanistan in
2017 and 2019. Sergeant Major Sartor’s
service made him a highly decorated
soldier.
Sergeant Major Sartor received more
than 20 awards and decorations for his
bravery during his service to our coun-
try. His awards include the following:
the Bronze Star Medal with three oak
leaf clusters, the Defense Meritorious
Service Medal, the Joint Service Com-
mendation Medal, the Army Com-
mendation Medal with three oak leaf
clusters, the Army Achievement
Medal, the Presidential Unit Citation
Award, the Joint Meritorious Unit
Award, the Valorous Unit Award with
two oak leaf clusters, the Meritorious
Unit Citation with one oak leaf cluster,
and the National Defense Service
Medal.
He also earned the Special Forces
Tab, the Ranger Tab with the title of
Honor Grad, the Combat Infantryman
Badge, the Senior Parachutist Badge,
the Special Operations Diver Badge,
and the Dive Supervisor Badge.
Posthumously, Sergeant Major
Sartor has also received a Purple Heart
and a Bronze Star.
Sergeant Major Sartor was described
as a ‘‘beloved warrior who epitomized
the quiet professional. He led his sol-
diers from the front, and his presence
will be terribly missed.’’
Mr. Speaker, Sergeant Major Sartor
was a fearless leader and a decorated
soldier. His selfless devotion to protect
our country will be forever remem-
bered. Furthermore, he will be forever
remembered as a devoted husband, a fa-
ther, a son, a soldier, a selfless servant,
and a loyal friend to many.
All Americans thank him and his
family for their service and their sac-
rifice for our country. His sacrifice
truly reflects the words of Jesus in
John 15:13: ‘‘Greater love hath no man
than this, that a man lay down his life
for his friends.’’
The loss of Sergeant Major Sartor
serves as a reminder of the sacrifices
the men and women of our Armed
Forces make each day to preserve the
freedom for this great Nation. We are
forever in debt to these committed in-
dividuals who serve our country.
My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest
and heartfelt condolences to the Sartor
family. We also lift up the family and
friends of Ryan Sartor in our prayers.
I have requested that a United States
flag be flown over our Nation’s Capitol
to honor his life and legacy.
As I close today, I urge all Americans
to continue praying for our country,
for our veterans, for our military men
and women who protect us, and for our
first responders who keep us safe here
at home.
HONORING MATTHEW RANDELL GURULE
Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Matthew Randell
Gurule of Belen, New Mexico, who
passed away on August 17, 2019.
Matthew was born on January 12,
1987, in Albuquerque, New Mexico, to
Matthew and Sandra Gurule. In 1996,
Matthew moved to central Texas with
his mom and his sister. He graduated
from China Spring High School in 2004
and joined the United States Marine
Corps on November 7, 2005.
Matthew served many tours of duty
during his time in the Marine Corps.
He deployed to Iraq in 2006, 2007, and
2008 and to Afghanistan in 2009. He was
highly decorated and received many
awards, including: the Combat Action
Ribbon, the Marine Corps Good Con-
duct Medal, the Sea Service Deploy-
ment Ribbon with two stars, the Af-
ghanistan Campaign Medal with one
star, the Global War on Terrorism Ex-
peditionary Medal, the Iraq Campaign
with one star, the Global War on Ter-
rorism Service Medal, the NATO Medal
International Security Assistance
Force Afghanistan, a Certificate of Ap-
preciation, a Letter of Appreciation,
and Rifle Marksman Badge.
After his time in the Marine Corps,
Matthew wanted to work alongside his
father at Albuquerque Downs. He at-
tended the Lookout Mountain School
of Horseshoeing in 2012 and obtained
his certification as a horse farrier.
Looking to expand his skills, Matthew
changed career fields and most re-
cently was a mason at Cameron’s Cus-
tom Homes.
Matthew had a number of interests
and hobbies, which included singing,
dancing, and cooking. He was noted for
making a good batch of salsa, steak,
baked potatoes, and green chile spa-
ghetti. Matthew also enjoyed reading,
especially about historical subjects
such as the Knights Templar and the
Mongol Empire.
Matthew was taken from this Earth
too soon. He was last seen on July 27,
2019, leaving the Isleta Casino in Albu-
querque. His car was later discovered
burned and abandoned in the desert.
After not hearing from Matthew for
several days, his mother, Sandra Mil-
ler, traveled to New Mexico to look for
her son. She discovered that his credit
cards were fraudulently being used, and
she was able to obtain video surveil-
lance of the criminals who were using
them. Her work led to the eventual ar-
rest of the two people charged with
Matthew’s murder. His body was later
found in the New Mexico desert on Au-
gust 16, 2019.
Through their senseless act of vio-
lence, these criminals have caused an
enormous amount of pain for all those
who knew and loved Matthew. In this
time of tragedy, I am deeply moved by
Sandra’s love for her son. As a father
and grandfather, I can only imagine
the grief felt by Sandra. I am in awe of
her extraordinary efforts to find her
son and bring his killers to justice. I
commend her for her work and the ex-
ample she gave of the eternal love a
parent has for their children.
Mr. Speaker, Matthew Gurule’s life
was defined by his service to our coun-
try. He will be forever remembered as a
loyal son, a brother, a veteran, a self-
less servant, and a friend to many.
My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest
and heartfelt condolences to the
Gurule family. We also lift up the fam-
ily and friends of Matthew Gurule in
our prayers.
I have requested that a United States
flag be flown over the Nation’s Capitol
to honor his life and legacy.
As I close today, I urge all Americans
to continue praying for our country,
for our veterans, and for our first re-
sponders who keep us safe and secure.
HONORING DR. JOHN JOSEPH KOLDUS III
Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Dr. John Joseph Koldus
III of College Station, Texas, who
passed away on August 12, 2019.
Before continuing with my recogni-
tion of Dr. Koldus, I would like to pro-
vide background on Texas A&M Uni-
versity in College Station and its core
values.
In the front of the academic building
on the campus of the university, there
is a statue of Lawrence Sullivan Ross,
the sixth president of the university.
That statue contains the following in-
scription: ‘‘Lawrence Sullivan Ross,
1838–1898, Soldier, Statesman, and
Knightly Gentleman; Brigadier General
C.S.A., Governor of Texas, President of
the A&M College.’’
The key words in this inscription are
‘‘soldier, statesman, and knightly gen-
tleman.’’ They reflect some of the key
ways that Texas Aggies live the Texas
A&M core values of excellence, integ-
rity, leadership, loyalty, respect, and
selfless service.
Moving on to my recognition of Dr.
Koldus, John was born February 10,
1930, in Gary, Indiana, to John Joseph
Koldus II and Helen Kukoy Koldus. He
was an outstanding athlete and let-
tered in football, basketball, baseball,
and track. He was named the Most
Athletic Boy in the Gary School Dis-
trict.
After graduation, he worked at U.S.
Steel on Lake Michigan, just as his fa-
ther had done. John then realized that
higher education was a way to improve
himself, and he attended Arkansas
State University. At Arkansas State,
he was a middleweight Golden Gloves
champion and lettered 2 years in base-
ball and 3 years in football, capturing
many individual records for the school.
In 1953, John graduated from ASU
and was commissioned as a second lieu-
tenant in the United States Army.
John served in the Army until 1955.
Following his military service, he
began teaching at Blytheville High
School in Blytheville, Arkansas. John
taught from 1955 to 1959, and during the
summers he attended the University of
Arkansas in Fayetteville to complete
his master’s degree and to begin his
doctorate studies.
During his time as a teacher, John
met Mary Dell Hooker. Their first date
was a tennis match, and their competi-
tive athletic spirits fostered a strong
relationship. They married on May 31,
1958.
In 1973, John began his 20-year career
at Texas A&M University in College
Station, Texas, as vice president of stu-
dent services. John was instrumental
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.036 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7860 September 20, 2019
in guiding the university through an
era of incredible growth and change, as
tens of thousands of women began at-
tending the university, and by creating
a unique culture which provided Aggie
students with extensive leadership op-
portunities. In his role as vice presi-
dent of student services, John had a
deep and impactful relationship with
the students of Texas A&M.
He had oversight of a number of orga-
nizations, including the Corps of Ca-
dets, Recreational Sports, the Memo-
rial Student Center, Student Activi-
ties, Student Affairs, Student Health
Services, and Student Legal Services.
During his time at Texas A&M, the
number of student organizations dou-
bled to more than 700. John also taught
classes and served on many academic
committees for graduate students.
b 1215
In his 20 years at Texas A&M, John
was a recipient of 15 significant
awards, including the Association of
College and University Student Per-
sonnel Administrators’ Distinguished
Service Award, The Association of
Former Students’ Distinguished
Achievement Award for Student Rela-
tions, the Buck Weirus Spirit Award,
and the National Association of Stu-
dent Personnel Administrators Region
III Outstanding Service to NASPA
Award in 1984.
In 1985, this latter award was named
in his honor as a reflection of his im-
pact on student services all across this
Nation. John’s impact on the univer-
sity was so meaningful, that when he
retired in 1993, he was the recipient of
the President’s Medallion of Achieve-
ment, and he was named Vice Presi-
dent Emeritus of Texas A&M Univer-
sity.
The Student Services Building was
also renamed the John J. Koldus Build-
ing, and the Texas A&M Foundation
also created the John J. Koldus Qual-
ity of Student Life Endowment. Al-
though neither he nor Mary Dell were
graduates of Texas A&M, in 2006 they
were bestowed by proclamation the
title of ‘‘Texas Aggies.’’
In the beginning of this recognition,
I discussed the attributes—soldier,
statesman, knightly gentleman, and
the core values of Texas A&M Univer-
sity: Excellence, integrity, leadership,
loyalty, respect and selfless service.
The reason I discussed these attributes
and these values is this:
Dr. Koldus was a soldier, a states-
man, a knightly gentleman, and he per-
sonified A&M’s core values of excel-
lence, integrity, leadership, loyalty, re-
spect, and selfless service. More impor-
tantly, he helped share and model
those attributes and values to the
Texas A&M student body through his
mentoring capabilities. His skills in
this regard were noteworthy as he
mentored thousands of Aggies who
started their education at A&M as,
what I would call, ‘‘diamonds in the
rough.’’
I want to continue discussing this
subject, because I was one of those per-
sons who arrived at A&M pretty rough
around the edges. Early on, as an Aggie
student, Dr. Koldus identified me as a
person who might have some promise,
and he invested his time and leadership
skills into my education. His men-
toring and friendship had an indelible
impact on me as he tried to mold me to
be a soldier, statesman, knightly gen-
tleman, and he helped me live and
adopt those significant Aggie core val-
ues.
The bottom line is that John Koldus
had a huge impact on tens of thousands
of Texas Aggies, and upon me. He was
a great friend, and I miss him dearly.
Mr. Speaker, John Koldus’ life was
defined by his service to his family, to
our country, and to Texas A&M Univer-
sity. He will be forever remembered as
a husband, a father, a grandfather, a
great-grandfather, a veteran, a mentor,
a selfless servant, and a friend to thou-
sands, if not tens of thousands.
My wife, Gina, and I offer deepest and
heartfelt condolences to the Koldus
family. We also lift up the family and
friends of John Koldus in our prayers. I
have requested the United States flag
be flown over our Nation’s Capitol to
honor his life and legacy.
As I close today, I urge all Americans
to continue to pray for our country
during these difficult times, for our
military who protects us abroad, and
for our first responders who keep us
safe at home.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
RETRACTIONS OF NEW YORK
TIMES’ ARTICLES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. KING) for 30
minutes.
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I ap-
preciate the privilege to be recognized
to address you here on the floor of the
United States House of Representa-
tives.
And I come to this floor to talk a lit-
tle bit today about what is happening
to our Nation, our society, our culture,
our Constitution. And these are topics
that have been debated in this Cham-
ber for a long time, but some things
have happened that never happened be-
fore.
And so I would start first with: It
seems to me our leader seems to be a
high respecter of the credibility of the
New York Times. So I put together a
document here that I thought might be
interesting to him, and I would go
through just a few of them, the articles
that have come up in the New York
Times, that have had to be retracted.
Let’s see: There are the articles
about Russian meddling in the election
that had to be retracted.
They had to apologize for ruining
Wen Ho Lee’s career and life.
And the New York Times admits that
one of the reporters engaged in fre-
quent acts of journalistic fraud, wide-
spread fabrication and plagiarism, and
found problems in at least 36 of the 73
articles written by a single individual
since he had started.
Further, the Times admits—that is
the New York Times—that Judith Mil-
ler took journalistic shortcuts, and
that New York Times’ editors, ‘‘failed
to dig into problems before they be-
came a mess.’’
They did become a tremendous mess.
Remember, that was the allegation
that Saddam Hussein possessed weap-
ons of mass destruction. Well, we got
into a war over that one, didn’t we,
over the New York Times—at least in
part.
Most of us will remember in 2006,
when the New York Times covered an
alleged rape by Duke—or multiple
rapes, I should say, by the Duke Uni-
versity Lacrosse team. The Times cov-
erage was biased towards the accuser,
despite the fact that it ended up being
a hoax and there was little evidence
supporting the accuser’s case.
And those young men on the Duke
Lacrosse team were run through the
wringer. They were excoriated; they
were pounded on by the national
media, not only the New York Times,
but that is one of the things that trig-
gers it.
Then, again, there is a New York
Times article that questioned John
McCain’s relationship with a lobbyist.
And that faced widespread criticism to
the article implying that McCain had a
romantic relationship with a lobbyist.
They had to issue a correction, that
they did not intend for the article to
imply a romantic relationship. Well,
they did imply that. They just said
they didn’t ‘‘intend’’ that.
And so somehow, the Times thinks
they should have a pass for their own
definition of intent, even though time
after time after time, the Times has
been found to be less than credible.
The President of the United States
has poured forth his ire against the
New York Times, and called them the
‘‘lying New York Times,’’ ‘‘the fake
news New York Times,’’ ‘‘the failing
New York Times,’’ and probably a
number of descriptions that I haven’t
uncovered here, Mr. Speaker.
But in 2009, the New York Times’ ap-
praisal on Walter Cronkite had to have
eight different corrections due to just
factual inaccuracies. And this is a
newspaper, of course, that America
used to depend upon.
And then in 2015, the New York
Times published an article claiming
that new figures surrounding China’s
rate of coal usage could affect U.N. cli-
mate talks when, in fact, those figures
were so outdated that the U.N. was al-
ready aware of that particular uptick.
So, again, distorted information.
But what is consistent with this?
What are the common denominators?
And that is, their misinformation in
the New York Times almost always fits
their narrative.
And then in 2017, the New York
Times incorrectly stated that China
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.038 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7861
September 20, 2019
was in the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Well, that starts a whole national de-
bate of what is going on. If China is in
the TPP, and we are not in the TPP,
and then the debate churns along, well,
how are we ever going to get back into
the TPP? And we have to take China in
with us, if they will let us in. China
wasn’t part of the TPP—just misin-
formation. And that was an obvious
one that it would have failed even the
most rudimentary of fact-checks.
I would go further, in 2017 the Times,
because of a—their words—‘‘because of
an editing error,’’ quoted three tweets
from General Michael Flynn’s parody
account attributing the quotes to Gen-
eral Flynn, further damaging General
Flynn’s reputation, and probably con-
tributing to the difficulties that the
proud patriot has had as he wound up
his career serving our country. An edit-
ing error caused these three tweets.
They weren’t editing errors. They were
just picking up—because the parody ac-
count fit the Times narrative, they ac-
cepted the narrative without checking
on it. That is my assertion here, and I
believe it is true.
Again, in 2017, the New York Times
claims that Trump visited Israel dur-
ing the campaign, which actually it
was planned, but it was canceled for
political reasons, I presume. And to be
relatively astute on allowing then-
President Barack Obama to be in
charge of foreign policy.
In fact, I have a personal experience
with that, when I thought during the
campaign it would be wise for then-
candidate Trump to have a meeting or
two with some key players around the
world. But when I raised that issue, I
got the straight answer back, which
was, No, we don’t want to have any
kind of implication that we are con-
ducting foreign policy as a candidate
for the President of the United States.
That is up to the current Commander-
in-Chief, and that transition after the
election can take place in due course.
They were exactly correct in that
and conducted themselves accordingly,
but the allegations that were in the
paper would indicate the opposite of
that.
I have a number of other stories in
here. In fact, I have only gone to the
top of page 2, and there is about seven
pages, maybe eight pages in here, Mr.
Speaker. But I think it is clear that if
anybody is going to hang their hat on
something that they see printed in the
New York Times, they are going to find
themselves—if that narrative happens
to fit the narrative that the New York
Times pushes and promotes—you ought
to be very suspicious of the facts and
the allegations around that.
I would go through a few cases that
come to mind. Also, in America where
misinformation came out, it happened
to fit the narrative of the left, and so
the New York Times, The Washington
Post, MSNBC, CNN, on and on—Huff-
ington Post—they pick up that nar-
rative, embellish the narrative, and
they look for another way to add to
that narrative, if it is a narrative that
fits their ideology and their pre-
conceived notions of what they think
of their political opposition.
We think back to the best example
we have is now-Justice Brett
Kavanaugh, who was put through a
confirmation wringer that only had
been matched, perhaps, by Justice
Clarence Thomas.
What do they have in common? They
are both constitutionalists. They are
both originalists. They are both
textualists. And they are both in the
process of moving America back to the
Constitution, its original intent. And
understanding the text of the Constitu-
tion has to mean what it was under-
stood to mean at the time of ratifica-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I would ask you just to
think about that. If the Constitution is
a living and breathing document, and
this definition can change on the fly,
then what kind of a deal do we have at
all with our Founding Fathers and with
our posterity?
Can you imagine signing a contract—
I have spent my life in the construc-
tion business—and can you imagine
signing a contract, and during the
course of that contract, the words in
that contract have to mean a defined,
precise, black-and-white meaning. And
those words are on paper so that the
deal doesn’t change. That is what a
contract is.
You put words on paper, you sign
that document, and that says, I am
committed to the language in this Con-
stitution—or the contract—and the in-
tent of this language in the contract,
or the Constitution, and I will follow
through on that, and I will complete
my side of this agreement. That is a
contract.
The Constitution is a written con-
tract that lays down the foundation of
our government, and it is the supreme
law of the land. And it went on paper,
on parchment. It went on parchment
and was signed and ratified by the
Thirteen Colonies so that they said, We
are going to keep our part of this bar-
gain. This is the deal.
You would have never ratified that
Constitution back in the day if some-
body would have said, well, it is a liv-
ing, breathing document. We can rede-
fine these words in here and ignore oth-
ers and be able to just work our way
around it, and we will get some activist
justices that will work with us on this
and give us precedent cases that under-
mine the original intent of the Con-
stitution.
That is what has been going on in
this modern era, probably longer than I
recall, but I would say at least back to
the Warren Court. And yet today, we
have Justice Clarence Thomas, who is
an originalist, a textualist, and he be-
lieves the Constitution has to mean
what it was understood to mean at the
time of ratification.
And if we don’t like that, that is why
we have the amendment process, Mr.
Speaker. And that is the nominee Jus-
tice Brett Kavanaugh, and that is
nominee Justice Neil Gorsuch. And I
believe that is the case also for Justice
Alito, and most of the time, I think it
is also true for Chief Justice John Rob-
erts. But if we don’t have a guaranty
from our Constitution, we don’t have a
foundation for America and our gov-
ernment.
And then that puts it into the hands
of the willy-nilly attitudes of what
might be a majority in the Supreme
Court or the will of the people here on
the floor of the House of Representa-
tives, who sometimes just turn our
back on the Constitution. That con-
tract of our Constitution has to mean
what it was understood to mean at the
time that it was ratified.
And so why was the big fight then
pushing back against Brett Kavanaugh
when he was before the United States
Senate to be confirmed?
And the reasons for that are the
other side—the left, the radical left,
that is sometimes supported by the
militant left—doesn’t want to live
under our Constitution. They want to
change it. They want to move America.
They want to attack the pillars of
American exceptionalism. And they
have much of the news media as their
allies.
So as the news media pours forth
these erroneous stories and they put
misinformation into the eyes and ears
of the American people, while they are
doing that, they are pitting the Amer-
ican people against the American peo-
ple. And you saw that during the con-
firmation process of Justice
Kavanaugh.
And he faced—this is just my mem-
ory, but I believe there were something
like six different accusers that they ac-
cumulated over time. And these accus-
ers, one of them was Christine Blasey
Ford, who sat over there with her hair
inside of her glasses and told us how
bad this was.
But her testimony could not be cor-
roborated, and that was actually the
verdict that came down when Justice
Kavanaugh was confirmed before the
United States Senate. Neither could
the testimony or the affidavits or the
narratives of the others be corrobo-
rated.
And so of those five or six accusers
then, none of them held up under the
scrutiny, under the light of day, even
though the New York Times and The
Washington Post, and all these publica-
tions I have listed, and many more,
came at it as if Christine Blasey Ford
was the gold standard for a witness
with integrity. And it is clear she was
not.
b 1230
Well, they beat up so badly on Jus-
tice Kavanaugh that, at one point, one
of the Democrat Senators asked him
the question: You have gone through a
lot. You have been faced with all this
criticism.
Essentially, I will paraphrase and
summarize how I understood that, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.040 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7862 September 20, 2019
it is not a quote from the Senator, but
it was essentially this: We have beaten
you up so badly and mercilessly. We
damaged your reputation so badly. We
destroyed your character. You have to
be personally just crushed. So, how, if
you are confirmed as a Justice on the
Supreme Court, can you sit in impar-
tial judgment on ruling on the Con-
stitution and the rule of law? Aren’t
you going to be tempted to retaliate
because of what all you have been
through?
Those are not the exact words, but
that was the theme.
Now, think of this. If somebody is
put forward before the public in a nom-
ination process or some other type of
scrutiny and they are so mercilessly
pounded by the leftist media—and, in
some cases, collaboration from Repub-
lican leadership—that their reputation
is so badly damaged, the question
comes up: Well, can Justice Kavanaugh
do his job now that we have eviscerated
him through this confirmation process?
Oh, I think he can do his job all
right, and I think he can do it clearly
and with a cool hand and a cool head
and an analytical mind. And I think
Justice Kavanaugh is doing and will
continue to do this: bring America
back to the Constitution, bring Amer-
ica back to the original intent, bring
America back to the text of the lan-
guage that is in the Constitution.
And, if Americans don’t like the re-
sults of those decisions, we have a
method to amend the Constitution
rather than simply distort it by judi-
cial activism. And that is about the
best way to get revenge on people who
put our Constitution under threat by
the tactics that they are using in the
confirmation process.
Well, that process that they were
trying to deny the confirmation of Jus-
tice Kavanaugh failed, and he is con-
firmed, and he is serving with dignity
and honor. And he should be allowed to
do that for life if he chooses.
But they mounted another effort at
him a week or so ago, and it turned out
to be another false story. The New
York Times, in particular, didn’t both-
er to write into the story that the
woman who allegedly had experienced
some type of harassment, and maybe
even physical harassment—and I say
‘‘allegedly’’; allegedly, in case The New
York Times missed it the first time I
said it—that she didn’t have any recol-
lection of the incident whatsoever.
They knew that, and it is reported that
the reporters who wrote the story had
that line in their story and that it was
taken out by the editors.
So, think of that. The editors at The
New York Times are redacting lan-
guage, but disappearing language, so
that the meaning of the story is dif-
ferent and it can be as pejorative as
possible against a seated Justice on the
United States Supreme Court. That is
appalling.
And is it willful? Well, that question
hangs out there: Is it willful?
I will say this. There is a Supreme
Court precedent case out there from
about 1964 called The New York
Times—excuse me. It is Sullivan v. The
New York Times Company.
That was a case where, in Alabama,
during the civil rights disruptions of
the sixties, there was a story that had
multiple falsehoods in it that was de-
signed to be pejorative against the law
enforcement and the people in Ala-
bama near the Selma area.
And I am not actually sure that was
Selma, but it was in Alabama.
In any case, the story that came out
in The New York Times was inaccurate
on step after step. They argued that
they locked the cafeteria shut so that
they could starve the students out. Or
they reported that. They reported that
students were refusing to register and,
essentially, leaving college. Neither
one of those things were true.
They argued that they circled the
building with law enforcement officers
essentially arm in arm. That wasn’t
true. There were about four other false-
hoods. They had to be manufactured
because what would they be based on,
things like that.
Yet, when they went before the Su-
preme Court in the middle of the 1960s,
Sullivan v. The New York Times Com-
pany, the Supreme Court came down
with a decision, which is, well, The
Times is protected because they are a
print publication, and we have to allow
them their First Amendment right—
freedom of the press—even if it is false,
even if it is blatantly false, even if it is
obviously false. It just has to be will-
fully and maliciously false in order for
them to be liable.
That case needs to come back before
the United States Supreme Court and
be reconsidered. And I am told that
there are one or more Justices on that
bench who would welcome such a case
to make it to the Supreme Court, and
I think I have named those two most
likely to welcome that case here al-
ready.
So I am frustrated by this. I am glad
that this case, this second round,
Kavanaugh 2.0 in malicious media med-
dling, is pretty much now in the rear-
view mirror now that the truth has
been applied to the story a little bit
better.
But this country is not off of this
hook by any means. We have a long,
long ways to go before we can get down
to what is true. And I think Congress is
going to have to act at some point. I
don’t think it is going to happen in
this Congress. There has to be a major-
ity change in this Congress. But we are
going to have to act.
And the stories that have been served
up to the American people—I brought
up the Kavanaugh story as the first
one. Then you can move along a little
bit, and I will take you to—let’s see.
Let’s do Covington Catholic.
The Covington Catholics were here
during the March for Life. That would
be around January 22. A lot of young
men, and, also, at least one of them
was wearing a MAGA hat, a ‘‘Make
America Great’’ cap, a red one.
They were down by the Lincoln Me-
morial, and there was a story that
there was a Native American who was
beating a drum in the face of this
young man, and the young man just
stood there and maintained his pos-
ture, his composure, his expression.
And that just seemed to be what all
the media would pile on, that they had
been disrespecting a Native American
who was beating a drum in his face,
and that clip of the close-up seemed to
be enough just to reinforce a lot of
critics that the young man from Cov-
ington Catholic somehow carried an at-
titude that should be punished.
So they excoriated him through
every media that I can think of, and
that young man and the school went
through days and days and days of a lot
of public criticism, grief that was
poured forth upon them.
And I can say with experience that, if
you don’t have experience with public
grief being poured on you, it hurts a lot
more the 1st time than it does the 2nd,
5th, 10th, 20th, 50th, or 100th time.
You do build scar tissue to this, but
you can’t imagine that a young man
from Covington Catholic has scar tis-
sue built up at all. Who could imagine
that this would be the case?
So, they took that heat and that
beating—the whole school, but he in
particular—for over a week until there
was a video that emerged that panned
back and showed what really went on.
There was no antagonism from the
Covington Catholics.
There were bad words being hurled
back and forth, but I don’t think any-
body picked up any bad words coming
from those young people from Cov-
ington Catholic. Yet they got the
blame for all of this when they were
standing there innocently and probably
stunned at the environment they were
in.
I can’t imagine they came out of
their home State and went into the
middle of that, I would say, semi-dem-
onstration environment when they
were being intimidated by groups
shouting back and forth at them and a
drum being beaten in their face.
You would be amazed. I recall my
first experience with these things in
this town. It was March 18 of 2003 when
there was an antiwar demonstration
that took place. I thought: I need to
see this.
So I went over there near the Wash-
ington Monument where they were gin-
ning up, the antiwar demonstrators.
They had two great, big speakers up on
a stage that were about the size of re-
frigerators, microphones, and they
were ginning up the crowd.
As I walked around through that
crowd—I went incognito, by the way,
too, Mr. Speaker. I put on my old, vin-
tage Washington Redskins sweatshirt
and a cap so I could just, hopefully,
blend into the crowd.
I saw every variety of anti-Ameri-
canism that I had ever seen. A lot of it
was profane. They ginned them up, and
then they marched off over to the west,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.042 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7863
September 20, 2019
around the west side of the White
House, and then came back down
through Pennsylvania Avenue.
I sat there, in the middle there, what
I call the grassy knoll, and watched
them go by for an hour and three-quar-
ters, a human river of discontent and
anger and anti-Americanism.
I saw a young lady, maybe 16 or 17
years old, run over and spit in the face
of an officer who was standing there.
I saw two marines standing on the
side of the street. They were holding
their American flag up, and a young
man from the demonstrating crowd ran
over there, grabbed a hold of that flag.
They held their flag, but he ripped the
top half of the flag off, and he danced
around the street tearing it up in strips
and wearing it around his neck and
others’ necks as if it were some kind of
a trophy to tear up the American flag
and then demonstrate.
I saw a photographer there who had a
camera and who was going to clean the
lens on his camera. He reached in his
jacket pocket and pulled out a crum-
pled American flag, a small, silk flag,
and used it to clean that lens. You
could tell by the habits of the way he
handled it that that is just what he did;
he kept the American flag for a rag to
clean the lens on his camera while he
took pictures of anti-Americanism, ha-
tred of America, and every kind of
countercultural thing that you can
think of.
That is what we are faced with, the
kind of people in that demonstration,
the kind of people who were down here
at the Lincoln Memorial who were try-
ing to intimidate the Covington Catho-
lics.
So, you know how that one ended,
Mr. Speaker. I will say another one.
Now, remember, this one also fit the
narrative. Justice Kavanaugh, the sto-
ries against him, they picked the ones
that fit the narrative and drove them.
Their narrative on Covington Catho-
lics was these must be conservative
pro-lifers—and they are—so we have
got to find a way to actually expose
something that is in their heart, which
is, by the way, faith and love. They
didn’t expose that. That was the Cov-
ington Catholics.
Jussie Smollett alleged that he was
the subject of, at least, a lynch threat
and that they had, what, poured bleach
on him and whatnot. That went on for
awhile. That story was all ginned up
because these were supposedly racists
who were going to lynch Jussie
Smollett in Chicago.
But I saw the video of the two men
who went into the convenience store to
buy those items that he had put on top
of him, that little bit of a kind of a
scrawny rope that didn’t look to me
that it was a rope you would use for
that. But that and the other items that
were there, all of it was on video, pur-
chased at the convenience store.
It was reported, at least—now I don’t
know if it is true—that they were paid
something like $3,500 to do their part
in this.
And Jussie managed to wear that
rope all the way back to his apartment
before he was interviewed by the po-
lice.
Yet, still, the story went through and
through, and now the Federal Govern-
ment needs to get involved in it. I be-
lieve they are doing a full investiga-
tion of what looks like, let’s say, a less
than enthusiastic local prosecutor
there in Chicago.
But that is another story that fit the
narrative. Surely, there are people out
there who are racist who would go out
and get rope and bleach and whatever
and wait in the middle of a 20-below-
zero night to waylay Jussie Smollett
at a place like that.
It happened to be about the only lo-
cation where there were not surveil-
lance cameras. Carefully thought out?
Only partly.
But that fit the narrative. That was
published. It was The New York Times,
too, but it was many others, Mr.
Speaker.
Who am I forgetting now? There are
a number of others. I happen to be one.
So, I am waiting for a report to come
down that would lay out what is going
on in this Congress.
But I revere this Constitution. I
carry one in my jacket pocket every
day. When I say the Pledge, my hand is
inside my jacket because my hand is on
that Constitution, which is as close to
my heart as I can get it. I believe in it,
and I believe our job is to restore this
Constitution back to its original mean-
ing and intent.
The pillars of American
exceptionalism are identified, most all
of them, in the Bill of Rights itself.
The central pillar of American
exceptionalism is the rule of law. There
are a number of things around that
rule of law that we need to remember:
innocent until proven guilty, a right to
face your accusers, you get to face a
jury of your peers. All of that is there.
We have other pillars of American
exceptionalism. Freedom of speech is a
pillar. Freedom of religion. Freedom of
the press. Freedom of assembly—peace-
able assembly, I might add. All of those
are pillars that this shining city that
Ronald Reagan described to be on the
hill, I say, is supported and held up and
built upon those pillars of American
exceptionalism.
And I mentioned the rule of law, the
central pillar, without which the rest
of this collapses. Without freedom of
the press, the rest of this collapses be-
cause corruption has, then, a free rein.
But when the media gets corrupt and
the government gets corrupt, as we saw
in the fall of 2016 and on into the begin-
nings of the Trump administration,
when the major branches, major divi-
sions, departments within our govern-
ment are weaponized against a can-
didate for the Presidency, a President-
elect Donald Trump and then an inau-
gurated President Donald Trump, when
those branches of government are
weaponized against him, that is
weaponization against we, the people,
against our Constitution, and it under-
mines our freedom.
b 1245
And when the abuse of those con-
stitutional rights empowers media out-
lets to turn their targets, unjustly and
dishonestly, against a duly-elected
President of the United States, or a
duly-elected Member of the United
States Congress, that—meaning me, in
case you are wondering, Mr. Speaker—
threatens our republic. And this repub-
lic will eventually collapse if we con-
tinue down this path.
We must preserve those rights that
are in our Constitution, including inno-
cent until proven guilty; the right to
face your accusers; a jury of your
peers; due process. That has to all be
there.
The President hasn’t had due process.
I haven’t had due process. But I have
added up a few things. There are cur-
rently four Members of this Congress,
Mr. Speaker, that don’t have com-
mittee assignments; four.
One of them resigned from the Re-
publican Party and from his committee
assignments; so that takes it down to
three.
Two of them are indicted for Federal
charges. That takes it down to one.
Then, the one in this Congress—being
me, Mr. Speaker—and we look back
through history all the way back to
1900, and we find one other Member of
Congress that didn’t have committee
assignments since 1900. That happened
to be James Traficant in about 2001. He
happened to be one that was removed
from his committee assignments short-
ly after he voted for Dennis Hastert, a
Member of the opposite party, and
went against many of the platform po-
sitions of the Democratic party. They
decided he wasn’t a Democrat any
longer and removed him from his com-
mittees.
But in 120 years, there has only been
one, other than those that I mentioned;
that is James Traficant. And he was,
later on, indicted and convicted on
nine or ten Federal charges of fraud,
corruption, taking bribes and racket-
eering, and those kinds of things. He
was found guilty of all of them and
served some time in prison.
So these are very serious charges
when you are convicted of Federal felo-
nies and removed from your commit-
tees. I don’t think it is right to remove
someone from a committee when they
are charged because if they are in-
dicted, they are innocent until proven
guilty. So why would you punish some-
body if they are innocent until proven
guilty?
That defies a foundational principle
of our government.
But, nonetheless, the charges, at
least, are serious Federal felony
charges for two seated Members today.
Charges were certainly serious for
James Traficant, who spent time in
prison.
Why does STEVE KING not have com-
mittees? Because of a misquote in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.043 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7864 September 20, 2019
New York Times for the simple purpose
of an allegation of politically incorrect
speech.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
RESIGNATION FROM THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following resigna-
tion from the House of Representa-
tives:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, September 19, 2019.
Speaker NANCY PELOSI,
The Capitol,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAME SPEAKER: I write to inform
you that I will resign from the office of U.S.
Representative, effective 6:00 PM EST, Mon-
day, September 23, 2019. For the past eight
years, it has been the honor of my life to rep-
resent the place that I care about and the
people I love in Congress.
Sincerely,
SEAN P. DUFFY,
Representative to Congress.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, September 19, 2019.
Governor TONY EVERS,
Secretary of State DOUG LA FOLLETTE,
Wisconsin State Capitol, Office of the Governor,
Madison, WI.
DEAR GOVERNOR EVERS AND SECRETARY OF
STATE LA FOLLETTE: I write to inform you
that I will resign from the office of U.S. Rep-
resentative, effective 6:00 PM EST, Monday,
September 23, 2019. For the past eight years,
it has been the honor of my life to represent
the place that I care about and the people I
love in Congress.
Sincerely,
SEAN P. DUFFY,
Representative to Congress.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Ms. JACKSON LEE (at the request of
Mr. HOYER) for today on account of
participation in commemorative cere-
monies at the 50th anniversary of
women matriculating to my alma
mater, Yale University.
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (at the
request of Mr. HOYER) for today.
f
SENATE ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
The Speaker announced her signa-
ture to enrolled bills of the Senate of
the following titles:
S. 163.—An act to prevent catastrophic
failure or shutdown of remote diesel power
engines due to emission control devices, and
for other purposes.
S. 1689.—An act to permit States to trans-
fer certain funds from the clean water re-
volving fund of a State to the drinking water
revolving fund of the State in certain cir-
cumstances, and for other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. KING of Iowa. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 12 o’clock and 48 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Tuesday, Sep-
tember 24, 2019, at noon for morning-
hour debate.
f
OATH FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION
Under clause 13 of rule XXIII, the fol-
lowing Members executed the oath for
access to classified information:
Dan Bishop.
Gregory F. Murphy.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2213. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Manpower and Reserve Affairs, Department
of the Army, Department of Defense, trans-
mitting notification to Congress of the an-
ticipated use of Selected Reserve units that
will be ordered to active duty, pursuant to 10
U.S.C. 12304b(d); Public Law 112-81, Sec.
516(a)(1); (125 Stat. 1396); to the Committee
on Armed Services.
2214. A letter from the Chairman, Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission, transmitting
the 2018 Annual Report of the Securities In-
vestor Protection Corporation, pursuant to
15 U.S.C. 78ggg; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
2215. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-0I,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(5)(C) of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act, as amended; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
2216. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-44,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2217. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-41,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2218. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-28,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2219. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-42,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2220. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-22,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2221. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 19-21,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control
Act, as amended; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2222. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the Department’s FY
2018 No FEAR Act report, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 2301 note; Public Law 107-174, 203(a)
(as amended by Public Law 109-435, Sec.
604(f)); (120 Stat. 3242); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
2223. A letter from the Chief Justice, Su-
preme Court of the United States, transmit-
ting amendments to the Federal Rules of
Bankruptcy Procedure that have been adopt-
ed by the Supreme Court of the United
States, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2075; Public
Law 88-623, Sec. 1 (as amended by Public Law
103-394, Sec. 104(f)); (108 Stat. 4110) (H. Doc.
No. 116—65); to the Committee on the Judici-
ary and ordered to be printed.
2224. A letter from the Chief Justice, Su-
preme Court of the United States, transmit-
ting amendments to the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure, the Rules Governing
Section 2254 Cases in the United States Dis-
trict Courts, and the Rules Governing Sec-
tion 2255 Proceedings for the United States
District Courts, pursuant to 2072 U.S.C. 28
(H. Doc. No. 116—66); to the Committee on
the Judiciary and ordered to be printed.
2225. A letter from the Chief Justice, Su-
preme Court of the United States, transmit-
ting amendment to the Federal Rules of Evi-
dence that has been adopted, pursuant to
2072 U.S.C. 28 (H. Doc. No. 116—67); to the
Committee on the Judiciary and ordered to
be printed.
2226. A letter from the Chief Justice, Su-
preme Court of the United States, transmit-
ting amendments to the Federal Rules of Ap-
pellate Procedure, pursuant to 2072 U.S.C. 28
(H. Doc. No. 116—68); to the Committee on
the Judiciary and ordered to be printed.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. FITZPATRICK (for himself, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Ms. STEFANIK, Mrs.
MURPHY of Florida, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, and Mr.
KELLY of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 4429. A bill to ensure that a fair per-
centage of Federal cancer research funds are
dedicated to pediatric cancer research; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. TRAHAN:
H.R. 4430. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to assign a unique numeric identi-
fier to institutions of higher education to fa-
cilitate data collection and reporting, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. AMASH:
H.R. 4431. A bill to limit the authority of
personnel of the Department of Homeland
Security to prohibit a citizen or permanent
resident of the United States from boarding
as a passenger on an aircraft or cruise ship
based on inclusion of the individual in a
watchlist, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Homeland Security.
By Mr. RICHMOND (for himself and
Mr. KATKO):
H.R. 4432. A bill to require the Department
of Homeland Security to prepare a terrorism
threat assessment relating to unmanned air-
craft systems, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Homeland Security.
By Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, and Mrs.
MILLER):
H.R. 4433. A bill to amend title 40, United
States Code, to establish an Appalachian re-
gional energy hub initiative, and for other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE7.045 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7865
September 20, 2019
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself, Mr.
TRONE, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia,
Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mrs. MILLER, and
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 4434. A bill to amend title 40, United
States Code, to reauthorize the Appalachian
Regional Commission, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mrs. DINGELL, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, and Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 4435. A bill to amend the Surface Min-
ing Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to
protect taxpayers from liability associated
with the reclamation of surface coal mining
operations, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, and Ms. JAYAPAL):
H.R. 4436. A bill to authorize a National
Poverty Research Center; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 4437. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to allow the pooling of
tips among all employees, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania (for himself and Mr. BYRNE):
H.R. 4438. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on
investment income of private colleges and
universities; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. BUTTERFIELD (for himself,
Mr. MCCAUL, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. KELLY
of Pennsylvania, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
HUDSON, Mr. RUSH, and Mr. MULLIN):
H.R. 4439. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to make per-
manent the authority of the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to issue priority
review vouchers to encourage treatments for
rare pediatric diseases; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself and Ms.
NORTON):
H.R. 4440. A bill to establish protocols for
the investigation of uses of deadly force by
Federal law enforcement officers, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. COLLINS of New York:
H.R. 4441. A bill to amend titles 49 and 10,
United States Code, to provide for the au-
thority of the Commissioner of U.S. Customs
and Border protection with respect to na-
tional security determinations concerning
wind turbines proposed to be constructed in
the United States in bodies of water that
border Canada, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, and in addition to the Committee
on Armed Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. DUFFY:
H.R. 4442. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit prenatal genetic
testing and abortions on the basis of sexual
orientation, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
H.R. 4443. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide for a Fed-
eral, cost-of-living based minimum wage,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. BIGGS,
Mr. COX of California, Mr. HUFFMAN,
Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. LAMALFA, Mrs.
LESKO, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. MCCLIN-
TOCK, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Ms. TITUS,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr. O’HALLERAN,
and Mr. BUCK):
H.R. 4444. A bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Western Area Power Adminis-
tration to establish a pilot project to provide
increased transparency for customers, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, and Mr. NORMAN):
H.R. 4445. A bill to amend the District of
Columbia Home Rule Act to provide for a
uniform 60-day period for Congress to review
laws of the District of Columbia before such
laws may take effect, to permit Congress to
use the authorities and procedures available
under such Act for the consideration and en-
actment of resolutions of disapproval of laws
of the District of Columbia to disapprove
specific provisions of such laws, to clarify
the expedited procedures available under
such Act for the consideration of such reso-
lutions of disapproval, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, and in addition to the Committee on
Rules, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida (for him-
self, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, Mr. SOTO, Mr. DUNN, Mr.
SPANO, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr.
YOHO, and Mr. WALTZ):
H.R. 4446. A bill to designate the POW/MIA
Memorial and Museum in Jacksonville, Flor-
ida, as the National POW/MIA Memorial and
Museum, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, and in addition
to the Committee on Natural Resources, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself, Mr.
MULLIN, Mr. LAMB, and Mr. NORMAN):
H.R. 4447. A bill to establish an energy
storage and microgrid grant and technical
assistance program; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 4448. A bill to address loopholes in the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United
States that allow companies to avoid the
duty rate applicable to dehydrated garlic; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. RUIZ (for himself and Mr.
O’HALLERAN):
H.R. 4449. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to add access to tele-
communications and information services in
Indian country and areas with high popu-
lations of Indian people to the universal
service principle relating to access to such
services in rural, insular, and high cost
areas; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 4450. A bill to authorize the Export-
Import Bank of the United States to use 3
percent of its profits for administrative ex-
penses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 4451. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify that caregivers for
veterans with serious illnesses are eligible
for assistance and support services provided
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 4452. A bill to amend the Family and
Medical Leave Act of 1993 and title 5, United
States Code, to permit leave to care for an
adult child, grandchild, or grandparent who
has a serious health condition, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Oversight and Reform, and House Ad-
ministration, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 4453. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to distribute additional
information to Medicare beneficiaries to pre-
vent health care fraud, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. SCHIFF:
H.R. 4454. A bill to disclose the use of Fed-
eral funds with any privately held company
owned by the President, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself and
Mr. GIANFORTE):
H.R. 4455. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for a tem-
porary payment increase under the Medicare
program for certain biosimilar biological
products to encourage the development and
use of such products; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committee on Ways and Means, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mr.
SABLAN, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, and Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee):
H.R. 4456. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Labor to train certain Department of Labor
personnel how to effectively detect and as-
sist law enforcement in preventing human
trafficking during the course of their pri-
mary roles and responsibilities, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. RICE of
South Carolina, Mr. KELLY of Penn-
sylvania, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. THOMP-
SON of Pennsylvania, Mr. TURNER,
Mr. POSEY, Mr. WEBSTER of Florida,
Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. MURPHY of
North Carolina, Mr. BISHOP of North
Carolina, Mr. TIMMONS, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. DEUTCH, and
Mr. GARAMENDI):
H. Res. 569. A resolution recognizing the
111th anniversary of the independence of Bul-
garia; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for her-
self, Ms. LEE of California, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
COLE, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, and Ms.
BASS):
H. Res. 570. A resolution commemorating
the 20th anniversary of the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention’s Racial and
Ethnic Approaches to Community Health
(REACH) program; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself
and Mr. DEUTCH):
H. Res. 571. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of September 24, 2019, as
‘‘National Voter Registration Day’’; to the
Committee on House Administration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L20SE7.100 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7866 September 20, 2019
By Mr. FULCHER:
H. Res. 572. A resolution recognizing and
supporting the goals and ideals of ‘‘National
Forensic Science Week’’; to the Committee
on Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. GROTHMAN (for himself, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. GAL-
LAGHER, Mr. POCAN, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. MOORE, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. COSTA,
Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mr. KIND,
and Mr. CORREA):
H. Res. 573. A resolution recognizing the
celebration of the Hmong New Year in 2019;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Ms. MOORE, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Ms. MENG, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. KEATING, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. TLAIB, Ms. NORTON, Ms.
CASTOR of Florida, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
and Mr. RASKIN):
H. Res. 574. A resolution supporting the
teaching of climate change in schools; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
137. The SPEAKER presented a memorial
of the Senate of the State of Louisiana, rel-
ative to Senate Concurrent Resolution No.
52, requesting the Congress of the United
States call a convention of the states to pro-
pose amendments to the Constitution of the
United States; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
H.R. 4429.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mrs. TRAHAN:
H.R. 4430.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. AMASH:
H.R. 4431.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Due Process Clause (‘‘[N]or shall any
person . . . be deprived of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law. . . .’’)
By Mr. RICHMOND:
H.R. 4432.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is introduced pursuant to the
powers granted to Congress under the Gen-
eral Welfare Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl 1), the
Commerce Clause (Art. 1 Sec. 8 Cl. 3), and
the Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1 Sec.
8 Cl. 18).
Further, this statement of constitutional
authority is made for the sole purpose of
compliance with clause 7 of Rule XII of the
Rules of the House of Representatives and
shall have no bearing on judicial review of
the accompanying bill.
By Mr. MCKINLEY:
H.R. 4433.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
Section 8—Powers of Congress. To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. MCKINLEY:
H.R. 4434.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
Section 8—Powers of Congress. To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department—or Of-
ficer thereof.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 4435.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 (relating to
the power of Congress to regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes.)
By Mr. POCAN:
H.R. 4436.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 4437.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section of the U.S. Constitution.
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania:
H.R. 4438.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion under the General Welfare Clause.
By Mr. BUTTERFIELD:
H.R. 4439.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the
Constitution, Congress has the power to col-
lect taxes and expend funds to provide for
the general welfare of the United States.
Congress may also make laws that are nec-
essary and proper for carrying into execution
their powers enumerated under Article I.
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 4440.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. COLLINS of New York:
H.R. 4441.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1, of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. DUFFY:
H.R. 4442.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitu-
tion.’’
By Mr. FITZPATRICK:
H.R. 4443.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 4444.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3. (Commerce
Clause) The Commerce Clause give Congress
the power to ‘‘regulate commerce . . . among
several states’’. If the matter in question is
not purely a local matter or if it has an im-
pact on inter-state commerce, then it falls
within the power of Congress. National Fed-
eral of Independent Business v. Sebelius
(2012).
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 4445.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 17 of the Con-
stitution provides Congress with the exclu-
sive jurisdiction over the District of Colum-
bia.
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
H.R. 4446.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘Article 1, Section 8: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof’’
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 4447.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article II Section 8
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 4448.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 4449.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
United States Constitution, to provide for
the general welfare and make all laws nec-
essary and proper to carry out the powers of
Congress.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 4450.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
United States Constitution, to provide for
the general welfare and make all laws nec-
essary and proper to carry out the powers of
Congress.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 4451.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 4452.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
United States Constitution, to provide for
the general welfare and make all laws nec-
essary and proper to carry out the powers of
Congress.
By Mr. RUIZ:
H.R. 4453.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution
By Mr. SCHIFF:
H.R. 4454.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Disclosing Official Spending at Presi-
dential Businesses Act is constitutionally
authorized under Article II, Section 1, Clause
7, and as well as Article I, Section 8, Clause
18, the Necessary and Proper Clause.
By Mr. SCHRADER:
H.R. 4455.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L20SE7.100 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7867
September 20, 2019
Article I, Section I; and Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. WALBERG:
H.R. 4456.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut.
H.R. 24: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 51: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 446: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 641: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 832: Mr. KATKO and Mr. LONG.
H.R. 838: Mr. CUNNINGHAM and Mr.
GROTHMAN.
H.R. 912: Ms. BASS, Mr. CARBAJAL, and Mr.
ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 940: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 961: Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 1011: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 1043: Mr. RASKIN and Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 1075: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1154: Mr. DELGADO, Mr. LARSEN of
Washington, Mr. COOPER, Mr. ENGEL, and
Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 1166: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1191: Mr. KHANNA and Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut.
H.R. 1393: Mr. NADLER, Mr. EVANS, Mrs.
DINGELL, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. POCAN, Ms. ROY-
BAL-ALLARD, and Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 1394: Mr. NADLER, Mr. EVANS, Mrs.
DINGELL, Mr. DEFAZIO, and Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 1406: Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
STEUBE, and Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 1434: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 1498: Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. CASTEN of Illi-
nois, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. PAYNE, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, and Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 1545: Mr. BOST.
H.R. 1554: Mr. KEATING and Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 1568: Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 1603: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 1705: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
and Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 1707: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 1711: Mrs. LOWEY and Mr.
O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 1753: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 1766: Mrs. LURIA, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
WALTZ, and Mr. GRAVES of Georgia.
H.R. 1794: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana.
H.R. 1858: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 1865: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1869: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 1933: Mr. GROTHMAN and Mr. WALKER.
H.R. 1942: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1995: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 2070: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 2089: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi.
H.R. 2146: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Mr.
VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 2167: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 2214: Ms. FRANKEL, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Ms. DELAURO, and Mr. MCNER-
NEY.
H.R. 2234: Mr. SHIMKUS and Mr. BOST.
H.R. 2235: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2249: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 2279: Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. POCAN, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, Mr. KEATING, and Mr.
LOEBSACK.
H.R. 2282: Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 2328: Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. PETERSON, Mr.
MCNERNEY, and Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 2382: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 2415: Mr. CLAY and Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 2420: Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, and Mr.
NEAL.
H.R. 2426: Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 2435: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 2443: Mr. DUNCAN.
H.R. 2453: Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 2491: Mrs. BEATTY and Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO.
H.R. 2628: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 2668: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2788: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 2802: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 2815: Mr. VAN DREW and Ms. MCCOL-
LUM.
H.R. 2843: Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 2863: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 2867: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. SPEIER, Ms.
TITUS, Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. DOGGETT, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. Connolly, Mr. SERRANO,
Mr. BEYER, Ms. HILL of California, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, Mr. EVANS, Mr. CLAY, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. NADLER, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mr. TRONE, and Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2903: Mr. MITCHELL and Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 3048: Mr. SIMPSON and Mr. HARDER of
California.
H.R. 3077: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 3098: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 3107: Ms. PINGREE and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 3121: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 3125: Ms. HOULAHAN and Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 3127: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 3155: Mr. SABLAN, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
ROGERS of Alabama, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr. COLE,
Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
CALVERT, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, and
Mr. GIBBS.
H.R. 3157: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 3222: Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 3289: Mrs. HARTZLER and Mr.
MCADAMS.
H.R. 3306: Mr. KIM and Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 3349: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 3396: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 3412: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 3463: Mr. NEGUSE and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 3495: Mr. SOTO, Mrs. AXNE, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. VAN
DREW, Ms. SHALALA, and Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 3502: Mr. SCHWEIKERT and Mr.
CLEAVER.
H.R. 3509: Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Ms. SLOTKIN, and Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia.
H.R. 3549: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3555: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 3663: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 3757: Mr. HILL of Arkansas and Mrs.
HARTZLER.
H.R. 3772: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3822: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 3918: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 3964: Mr. ALLEN and Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 3973: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3975: Mr. VAN DREW and Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 4022: Ms. KELLY of Illinois and Mr.
KHANNA.
H.R. 4064: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 4067: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 4078: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4108: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 4132: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 4164: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 4272: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 4280: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 4283: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 4300: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Mr. BACON, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois,
and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 4335: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 4343: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4347: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4370: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 4386: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 4408: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. STANTON and Mrs. DAVIS of
California.
H.J. Res. 72: Mr. BRINDISI.
H. Con. Res. 59: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H. Con. Res. 65: Mr. NEGUSE.
H. Res. 146: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. GREEN of
Texas, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms.
PLASKETT, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. FUDGE,
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. CLEAVER,
Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
CORREA, and Mr. CALVERT.
H. Res. 255: Ms. DELBENE, Mr. ROUZER, and
Mr. ROUDA.
H. Res. 510: Mr. KINZINGER and Mr.
QUIGLEY.
H. Res. 551: Mr. CARTER of Texas and Mr.
ABRAHAM.
H. Res. 561: Ms. GABBARD.
f
DELETION OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 3193: Mr. KILDEE and Mrs. LURIA.
f
DISCHARGE PETITIONS—
ADDITIONS AND WITHDRAWALS
The following Members added their
names to the following discharge peti-
tions:
Petition 1 by Mr. SCALISE on House Reso-
lution 102: Mr. Murphy of North Carolina and
Mr. Bishop of North Carolina.
Petition 3 by Mr. MAST on House Resolu-
tion 348: Mr. Murphy of North Carolina and
Mr. Bishop of North Carolina.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:51 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0636 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A20SE7.015 H20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1187
September 20, 2019
RECOGNIZING WORLD
NARCOLEPSY DAY
HON. ADAM B. SCHIFF
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of World Narcolepsy Day, which
will be observed globally on September 22nd.
Narcolepsy is a chronic neurological condi-
tion that affects about 1 in 2,000 people by im-
pairing the brain’s ability to regulate the sleep-
wake cycle. Symptoms of narcolepsy include
excessive sleepiness during the day, sudden
episodes of muscle paralysis, sleep paralysis,
confusing hallucinations, and a disrupted
nighttime sleep.
Due to an overall lack of public and profes-
sional awareness, accurate diagnosis of nar-
colepsy commonly takes between 8 and 15
years. Experts believe that the majority of peo-
ple with narcolepsy are currently undiagnosed
or misdiagnosed with other conditions such as
epilepsy, depression, and schizophrenia. More
work is needed to deliver breakthroughs for
patients impacted by this debilitating sleep dis-
order, and we must continue to support the
important funding of medical research through
the National Institutes of Health and public
health programs through the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention.
World Narcolepsy Day serves to raise
awareness of the experiences and healthcare
needs of the approximately 3 million people
living with narcolepsy across the globe, includ-
ing the 200,000 people with narcolepsy and
their loved ones in the United States. By rais-
ing awareness of narcolepsy, we can reduce
delays in diagnosis, combat stigma and
misperceptions, and improve health outcomes
for affected individuals.
I ask all Members to join me in recognizing
September 22nd as World Narcolepsy Day.
f
HONORING THE 30TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF PAJARO VALLEY
LOAVES AND FISHES
HON. JIMMY PANETTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
on the behalf of Pajaro Valley Loaves and
Fishes to recognize the work they have done
to foster community development and collabo-
ration as they celebrate 30 years of committed
work to alleviating hunger among working
class families on the central coast of Cali-
fornia.
Loaves and Fishes was founded in 1989 as
an emergency response to the Loma Prieta
earthquake and served more than 20,000
meals to residents displaced by the disaster at
their original location in Watsonville’s St Pat-
rick’s Church. The organization has since
grown into a community-supported local kitch-
en and pantry to serve the people of the
Pajaro Valley.
The Loaves and Fishes lunch program
serves a hot, nutritious lunch every weekday,
prepared on-site by certified cooks and other
community volunteers. In 2018, Loaves and
Fishes served between 80 and 150 hot and
nutritious meals every weekday. The pantry
program provides supplemental groceries to
the individuals or families up to twice per
month, with 76 percent of adult pantry clients
being farm workers who support the Central
Coast. Most of these groceries are either do-
nated or purchased from local farmers and the
Second Harvest Food Bank.
In addition to its food programs, Loaves and
Fishes supports the development of the com-
munity by providing support services, including
nutrition education, job trainings, resume build-
ing workshops, life skills development, and re-
ferrals to other available social services. Many
of these services are provided through part-
nerships with other social service agencies
and nonprofits.
It is an honor to recognize an organization
with such a meaningful impact on the commu-
nity, and I am proud to celebrate Pajaro Valley
Loaves and Fishes’ 30th anniversary of sup-
porting the Central Coast. Madam Speaker, I
ask my distinguished colleagues to join me in
celebrating Loaves and Fishes as a pillar of
strength in our community.
f
HONORING THE BICENTENNIAL OF
PERRY COUNTY, TENNESSEE
HON. MARK E. GREEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize the bicentennial of
Perry County, Tennessee, which was estab-
lished in November 1819. Named after Com-
modore Oliver Hazard Perry, a naval hero in
the War of 1812, Perry County has a long and
proud history in the heart of Tennessee.
Perry County is known for the scenic beauty
of the Buffalo and Tennessee rivers, and it is
home to several historic sites, including the
Cedar Grove Iron Furnace, the Perry County
Courthouse, and the Commodore Hotel.
Home to some of Tennessee’s finest public
servants, it is my distinct honor to represent
Perry County in the United States Congress.
The citizens of Perry County exemplify the
values that form the cornerstone of Tennessee
and our nation, and I ask that my colleagues
in the United States House of Representatives
join me in congratulating them as they cele-
brate this momentous occasion.
HONORING MELVINDALE-DEAR-
BORN FIRE CAPTAIN MICHAEL
PREADMORE
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to Captain Michael Preadmore for his
many years of service to the Melvindale-Dear-
born Consolidated Fire Department, on the oc-
casion of his retirement.
During his twenty-three years of service,
Captain Preadmore has moved steadily
through the ranks, garnering accolades for his
dedication and bravery along the way.
Preadmore joined the City of Melvindale’s Fire
Department as a firefighter in 1996. From
there, he was quickly promoted to sergeant,
lieutenant, and ultimately, captain. A consum-
mate professional who knows safety doesn’t
take a day off, Captain Preadmore has been
acknowledged for his perfect attendance mul-
tiple times and he has dedicated his time to-
ward working to advanced certification, includ-
ing confined space and rope rescue. Above
and beyond that, Captain Preadmore has
been recognized for his bravery in the line of
duty, receiving the Fire Chief Life Saving
Award twice, the Department Medal of Valor
award, and the Fire Chief Unit Commendation.
In short, Captain Preadmore has served
bravely and nobly. Please join me in saluting
him for his twenty-three years of public service
as we wish him well on his retirement.
f
HONOR FLIGHT OF OREGON
HON. GREG WALDEN
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. WALDEN. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the World War II veterans, Korean
War veterans and Vietnam War veterans from
Oregon who are visiting their memorials on
the National Mall on Friday, September 20,
2019, through Honor Flight of Oregon. Every
time I have the chance to meet one of these
heroes, I am reminded of the poignant words
of General Dwight D. Eisenhower. In a mes-
sage to Allied troops just before D–Day, he
said, ‘‘The eyes of the world are upon you.
The hopes and prayers of liberty-loving people
everywhere march with you.’’
He was right then, of course, Madam
Speaker. But over seventy years later, liberty-
loving people everywhere continue to owe
these heroes for their extraordinary service
and their incredible stories of sacrifice and
bravery on behalf of our country. That’s why it
is my privilege to include in the RECORD their
names.
The veterans on this Honor Flight from Or-
egon are as follows: Robert Berns, Navy; John
Bromstead, Navy; Dale Coonse, Navy; William
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K20SE8.001 E20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1188 September 20, 2019
Dickson, Navy; Dean Ewell, Army; Carl Giles,
Army; Roy Gilmore, Navy; Stanley Grout,
Navy; Troy Stone, Army; Dean Hastings,
Navy; Howard Hoffer, Navy; Floyd McHargue,
Marine Corps; Norman Morgan, Navy; Jacob
Notenboom, Army; Rex Orcutt, Navy; Jack
Peed, Navy; Jesse Ponce, Navy; Francis
Rossi, Navy; William Russell, Air Force; Wil-
liam Shrader, Coast Guard; Muriel Sollendar,
Marine Corps; Marlyn Sperry, Army; Galen
Tarter, Navy; Cliff Peery, Army; and David
Ullom, Army.
These heroes join over 200,000 veterans
who have been honored through the Honor
Flight Network of volunteers nationwide since
2005.
I would also like to recognize the guardians
traveling on this trip who have also served our
country: Mark Libante, Army; Richard
McReynolds, Army; Paul Grout, Air Force;
Kenneth Dale, Navy; Ronald Kohl, Air Force
and Army; Daniel Johnson, Navy; Kenneth
Young, Navy; Rachael Watters, Army; Terry
Haines, Navy; and Peter Pringle, Navy.
Madam Speaker, at the height of the Civil
War in 1863, President Abraham Lincoln
wrote, ‘‘Honor to the Soldier, and Sailor every-
where, who bravely bears his country’s
cause.’’ Each of us in this chamber and in this
nation should be humbled by the courage of
these brave veterans who put themselves in
harm’s way for our country and way of life. As
a nation, we can never fully repay the debt of
gratitude owed to them for their honor, com-
mitment, and sacrifice in defense of the free-
doms we have today.
My colleagues, please join me in thanking
these veterans and the volunteers of Honor
Flight of Oregon for their exemplary dedication
and service to this great country.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF RICHARD
SWANN
HON. STEPHANIE N. MURPHY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mrs. MURPHY of Florida. Madam Speaker,
I rise to honor the extraordinary life and endur-
ing legacy of Richard Swann, a great man and
a good man, who recently passed away.
Richard’s life wasn’t just full, it was over-
flowing. Overflowing with action and accom-
plishment, trial and triumph, and—above all—
family and friendship.
Richard lost his childhood sweetheart and
beloved wife Doris too young, but he poured
his energy into his work, into his four children
and 12 grandchildren, and into his large and
loyal network of friends.
Richard packed so much into his 79 years
on earth. He was a wise lawyer, a far-sighted
businessman and real estate developer, and
an influential player at the highest level of
American and Florida politics.
Richard was a proud Orlando native, and
foresaw the city’s potential before nearly any-
body else. Without fanfare, Richard did as
much as any man to transform Orlando into
the unique and wonderful place it is today.
Richard was best known as a champion of
the political causes and candidates he cared
about. He was committed to the concept of re-
sponsible and engaged citizenship.
At the service celebrating Richard’s life, his
granddaughter Caroline read an excerpt from
Teddy Roosevelt’s speech ‘‘The Man in the
Arena.’’
Richard never sat on the sidelines. He was
always in the arena, striving valiantly. Like any
man who dares greatly, he also suffered set-
backs along the way.
In the end, despite a lifetime marked by
achievement, perhaps Richard’s most admi-
rable quality was his fortitude and resilience in
the face of adversity.
Richard was a pillar of our central Florida
community. He will be deeply missed by all of
us who had the honor to call him a friend.
f
HONORING DR. LINDA BIRNBAUM,
CHAMPION OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH RESEARCH
HON. DAVID E. PRICE
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr. Linda
Birnbaum, Director of the National Institute of
Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) and
the National Toxicology Program (NTP), who
is retiring in October. Dr. Birnbaum has served
as director of NIEHS, located in North Caro-
lina’s Research Triangle Park, for the past 10
years. She is the first woman and first board-
certified toxicologist to serve in this position.
Dr. Birnbaum always had a clear vision for
the NIEHS/NTP, evidenced by her implemen-
tation of two strategic plans over the course of
her tenure. Under her leadership, NIEHS has
become a world leader in environmental
health and toxicology research. For example,
scientific studies, such as the annual Report
on Carcinogens, which analyzes substances in
our environment that may cause cancer, have
ignited changes in health policy and safety
standards in the U.S. and across the world.
The creation of the Children’s Health Expo-
sure Analysis Resource, a grant program that
established a network of exposure assess-
ment laboratories across the country, paved
the way for policy changes that protected the
health of children. Dr. Birnbaum’s team also
established the NIEHS Clinical Research Unit,
allowing the NIH to partner with top biomedical
teams at our RTP Universities: Duke, Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and North
Carolina State.
In the wake of environmental disasters, Dr.
Birnbaum and her team led critical research
projects following the 2010 Deepwater Horizon
oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and the 2014
West Virginia chemical spill. Dr. Birnbaum and
her team worked in coordination with scientists
across the NIH and with the residents of af-
fected areas, recruiting over 33,000 partici-
pants for the Deepwater Horizon study.
Dr. Birnbaum has received numerous acco-
lades for her outstanding achievements in the
field of science. In 2010, she was elected to
the Institute of Medicine, now known as the
National Academy of Medicine. She also was
awarded the North Carolina Award in Science
in 2016, the state’s highest civilian honor
given by North Carolina’s Governor. For her
work in toxicology she was named the Distin-
guished Toxicology Scholar by the Society of
Toxicology in 2018 and earned the Mildred S.
Christian Career Achievement Award from the
Academy of Toxicological Sciences.
Dr. Birnbaum’s work as a federal research
scientist spans nearly 40 years, including 19
years directing research at the U.S. Environ-
mental Protection Agency. She also currently
serves as an adjunct professor in the UNC
Gillings School of Global Public Health and
held a similar position in Toxicology and Envi-
ronmental Health at Duke University. She has
maintained her research program even while
serving as NIEHS/NTP director, and at last
count had over 700 published articles and re-
ports to her credit. Fortunately, she plans to
continue her laboratory research part-time.
Madam Speaker, it has been my privilege to
know and work with Dr. Birnbaum during
much of her tenure at EPA and NIEHS. I was
delighted to see her—an accomplished, prac-
ticing scientist—appointed to the directorship
of NIEHS, and she has been a trusted source
of advice on the Institute’s needs and the
state of the research enterprise. She has a
passion for the NIEHS/NTP mission and has
inspired a generation of scientists with her vi-
sion of what well-designed research can con-
tribute to public health and environmental
quality.
I ask my colleagues to join me in congratu-
lating Dr. Linda Birnbaum as she reaches this
milestone. We thank her for her years of dedi-
cated service and the contributions she has
made toward the health and well-being of mil-
lions of people.
f
HONORING THE 25TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE THAI COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT CENTER
HON. ADAM B. SCHIFF
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the Thai Community Development
Center upon its 25th Anniversary.
The Thai Community Development Center
(Thai CDC) was founded in 1994 with the goal
of supporting and improving the lives of Thai
immigrants and other ethnic communities in
the greater Los Angeles area. Thai CDC
achieves its mission through a comprehensive
community development strategy and initia-
tives that focus on a variety of issues including
access to healthcare and social services, af-
fordable housing, human rights advocacy,
neighborhood empowerment, and small busi-
ness incubation.
Thai CDC played an essential role in an
eight-year community organizing campaign
that raised awareness and led to the creation
of Los Angeles’ Thai Town in 1999, the first
Thai Town in the United States. Through this
designation, Thai CDC has been able to en-
gage in transit-oriented development and
beautification efforts such as the installation of
the Kinarra Lamposts. This strategy to revi-
talize an otherwise depressed portion of East
Hollywood through cultural-based tourism has
allowed the Thai American community to pros-
per and flourish. In 2008, Thai Town was des-
ignated a Preserve America neighborhood, a
federal designation celebrating cultural herit-
age and encouraging historic preservation.
Throughout the years, Thai CDC has been
instrumental in creating events and spaces to
foster economic opportunity and bring
Angelenos and tourists alike to Thai Town.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K20SE8.007 E20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1189
September 20, 2019
Thai CDC spearheaded the effort to build and
develop the Thai Town Market Place and es-
tablish a twice weekly East Hollywood Farm-
ers Market to help incubate small businesses
and provide healthy and affordable food op-
tions to the neighborhood. In 2004, Thai CDC
helped found the Thai New Year’s Day
Songkran Festival which has since become an
annual event attracting hundreds of thousands
of attendees.
Since its founding, Thai CDC has also been
committed to improving the lives of Thai immi-
grants through culturally sensitive and linguis-
tically appropriate social services and pro-
grams such as legal aid, financial literacy and
counseling, and mediation and dispute resolu-
tion. In addition to assisting clients with secur-
ing affordable housing, Thai CDC has also
built the Halifax Apartments, a multi-family af-
fordable housing development in Hollywood,
and the Palm Village Senior Housing in Sun
Valley. Thai CDC has also raised awareness
of modern-day slavery and human trafficking
in the United States through the creation of
the Slavery Eradication and Rights Initiative,
SERI.
I am proud to recognize the Thai Commu-
nity Development Center for twenty-five years
of providing extraordinary service to the Thai
American community in the greater Los Ange-
les area, and I ask all members to join me in
congratulating the center for its outstanding
achievements.
f
HONORING MOUNT ZION SEVENTH
DAY ADVENTIST CHURCH ON
THEIR CENTENNIAL ANNIVER-
SARY
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, it is with
great pleasure that I rise today to extend my
heartfelt congratulations to the Mount Zion
Seventh Day Adventist Church, its staff, and
congregation as they commemorate their
100th Anniversary. This is a remarkable mile-
stone for this community treasure and cer-
tainly cause for great celebration.
Through its many ministries, the members
of Mount Zion nourish their souls as well as
those they serve. From educating young peo-
ple and organizing exciting activities for them
to providing information on healthier food op-
tions and recipes for families, the congregation
is enriching the lives of others throughout the
community.
Our churches play a vital role in our com-
munities—providing people with a place to
turn to for comfort when they are most in
need. The members of Mount Zion have also
given much to the Town of Hamden. Through-
out the years, as their membership grew so
did its commitment to the community. By
strengthening our bonds of faith, Mount Zion
gives its members a place to find their spiritual
center and to solidify and support their values.
In its 100-year history, the Mount Zion Sev-
enth Day Adventist Church has built a strong
foundation and its success is due to the dedi-
cation and commitment of each and every
member of its congregation. Through their
ministry and outreach efforts, they have left an
indelible mark on our community and continue
to enrich the lives of others. That is why I am
so pleased to stand today to offer my sincere
congratulations as they mark this very special
centennial anniversary. The families, parish-
ioners, and staff have much to be proud of as
they celebrate this 100th anniversary year.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LEE LOCKWOOD
LIBRARY AND MUSEUM
HON. BILL FLORES
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. FLORES. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Lee Lockwood Library and
Museum in Waco, which is celebrating its 50th
anniversary this year.
In the mid-1960s, planning began for a
home base for the Scottish Rite Freemasons
in Texas. A committee was formed to raise the
money needed for the building. Members of
this committee included many Waco business-
men and leaders including Allen Shivers, the
37th Governor of Texas; Abner McCall, Presi-
dent of Baylor University; and Robert L.
Lockwood, the building’s namesake. Waco
was selected as the location for the building
and construction began in 1967. The building
opened on September 27, 1969.
Since its opening, the building has served
as a central meeting location for Scottish Rite
Masons as well as a library and museum. The
Lee Lockwood Library and Museum is home
to a more than 1,200 piece print collection by
Waco photographer Fred Gildersleeve, a large
coin collection, as well as Civil War era letters,
medical records, and military enlistment data.
It also contains more than 10,000 books on
world, American, and Texas history; as well as
rare and first edition prints from authors such
as Mark Twain and Charles Dickens.
Throughout the year, the building hosts
weddings, meetings, concerts, veterans’
events, and other Masonic and non-Masonic
gatherings. The auditorium is also home to the
Waco Children’s and Christian Youth Theater,
which hold many performances and camps
every year.
The building is constructed out of limestone
in a large rectangular shape, has four, dra-
matic two-story columns at the entrance, and
is flanked by two, two-ton limestone sphinxes.
The director of the Masonic National Memorial
called the Lee Lockwood Library and Museum
‘‘the last great Masonic building built in Amer-
ica.’’ In 2014, the City of Waco Historic Land-
mark Preservation Commission presented the
library an award for ‘‘Recognition of Sustained
Excellence for an Institutional Structure’’.
Madam Speaker, the Lee Lockwood Library
and Museum has served as a pillar for knowl-
edge and public service in its 50 years of op-
eration. I congratulate the Scottish Rite Ma-
sons on reaching this milestone and I look for-
ward to seeing their continued success.
I have requested that a United States flag
be flown over our Nation’s Capitol to recog-
nize the legacy of the Lee Lockwood Library
and Museum.
As I close today, I urge all Americans to
continue praying for our country, for our vet-
erans, for our military men and women who
protect us, and for our first responders who
keep us safe at home.
HONORING NEW YORK CHIRO-
PRACTIC COLLEGE FOR ITS ONE
HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY
HON. TOM REED
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
recognize New York Chiropractic College for
the one hundredth anniversary of its founding.
In 1919, Columbia Institute of Chiropractic
was founded by Dr. Frank Dean. The institute
later became New York Chiropractic College
in the 1970s. In 1991, a two-hundred and
eighty-six acre campus was purchased in Sen-
eca Falls, New York, and the college moved
to this expanded location.
Clinics were added throughout the region,
including in Seneca Falls, Depew and Levit-
town, New York. The college has also
partnered with the Veterans Administration
and others throughout the years.
This college has been educating Chiro-
practic students for one hundred years and I
wish them success in the next one hundred
years of educating students. New York Chiro-
practic College has provided outstanding pro-
gramming that is both meaningful and valu-
able to its students and the patients they go
on to help. I applaud their efforts and hope to
see many more great things from them in the
future.
Given the above, I ask that this Legislative
Body pause in its deliberations and join me to
recognize New York Chiropractic College for
the one hundredth Anniversary of its founding.
f
RECOGNIZING THE IEEE WOMEN IN
ENGINEERING AI LEADERSHIP
SUMMIT
HON. BILL FOSTER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. FOSTER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers Women in Engineering
AI Leadership Summit. This summit is a valu-
able forum for women students, teachers, re-
searchers, and engineers to share their expe-
riences and knowledge in the AI field.
As chair of the House Financial Services
Committee Artificial Intelligence Task Force, I
know that developments in this field are at the
forefront of American technological innovation.
AI has the potential to fundamentally change
how we interact with the world, and the work
of groups like IEEE Women in Engineering is
shaping the future of entrepreneurship, finan-
cial decisionmaking, and technological devel-
opment.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me today in recognizing the IEEE Women in
Engineering AI Leadership Summit and the
many great contributions that women engi-
neers and scientists have made to this country
and its communities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K20SE8.002 E20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1190 September 20, 2019
HONORING THE ANNIVERSARY OF
PENTECOSTAL TEMPLE CHURCH
OF GOD IN CHRIST
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to Pentecostal Temple Church of God
in Christ, a house of worship in Inkster, Michi-
gan, as its members celebrate the church’s
ninetieth anniversary.
Pentecostal Church of God in Christ was
founded in 1930. Construction of the church
itself was a labor of love initiated by pledges
and donations of community members and
built by their own hands. Since then, the
church has grown to accommodate its flock
and its many programs. The same sense of
community that was present at the church’s in-
ception is still evident in its growth both phys-
ically and spiritually. Over the years, Pente-
costal Church of God in Christ has expanded
to include a school for kindergarten through
sixth. It offers summer programs, daycare, and
even technology classes. The legacy of com-
munity service and inclusion lives on under
the leadership of Pastor Kellen Brooks, the
grandson of Pentecostal Church in God’s
longest serving pastor, the late Bishop Isaac
King, Jr.
Please join me in tribute to Pastor Kellen
Brooks and the members of Pentecostal
Church of God in Christ as we recognize its
ninetieth anniversary.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO THE LIFE
AND LEGACY OF DR. EMILY
ENGLAND CLYBURN
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize and pay tribute to the
life and legacy of a transformative leader and
my personal friend, Dr. Emily England Cly-
burn.
A native South Carolinian, Dr. Clyburn grad-
uated from Berkeley Training High School in
Moncks Corner before attending South Caro-
lina State University (SCSU), where she
earned a Bachelor’s degree in Library
Science. She continued her studies and
earned a Master’s degree in Librarianship
from the University of South Carolina. In 2010,
Dr. Clyburn was recognized for her achieve-
ments in the humanities through an Honorary
Doctorate of Humane Letters from her alma
mater, SCSU.
Dr. Clyburn served as a public school librar-
ian in Columbia and Charleston in the early
part of her career. She later transitioned to a
medical librarian position at the Charleston
Naval Base and Dorn VA Medical Center in
Columbia, where she merged her passion of
librarianship with her commitment to service.
Dr. Clyburn and her husband, my good
friend Congressman JIM CLYBURN, generously
contributed funding to South Carolina State
University to allow for the reestablishment of
the Honors College. In addition, the university
created the Dr. Emily England Clyburn Honors
College Scholarship Endowment, which en-
ables deserving students the opportunity to
further their education.
Dr. Clyburn’s philanthropic successes did
not go unnoticed. She was a recipient of the
Woman of Faith Award from the Columbia
Chapter of the National Council of Negro
Women, the Distinguished Service Award from
the South Carolina State University National
Alumni Association, and the Woman of Dis-
tinction Award by the Girl Scouts of South
Carolina. Additionally, she was featured in the
I. DeQuincy Newman Institute for Peace and
Social Justice’s documentary, Notable African
American Women: In Their Own Voices.
Dr. Clyburn was preceded in death by her
parents, Peter and Mattie England, and sib-
lings Arthur England and Mattie Mae England
Wadley. She is survived by her husband, Con-
gressman JIM CLYBURN; three daughters,
Mignon L. Clyburn, Jennifer Clyburn Reed
(Walter), and Angela Clyburn Hannibal; four
grandchildren, Walter A. Clyburn Reed, Syd-
ney Alexis Reed, Layla Joann Clyburn Han-
nibal, and Carter James Clyburn Hannibal;
and many more loving family and friends.
Madam Speaker, I would like to extend my
deepest sympathies to Congressman CLY-
BURN, his loved ones, and all those who had
the pleasure of knowing Dr. Clyburn. She was
a pillar of this great institution’s community,
and we will dearly miss her.
f
CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2020, AND HEALTH EXTEND-
ERS ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 19, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I will vote yes
on H.R. 4378, which funds the federal govern-
ment through November 21, 2019, although I
do have several concerns regarding what is in
the bill.
The House has completed nearly all of its
appropriations bills. The Republican Senate
has passed none. Because the Senate has
not done its work, bridge funding is needed to
keep the government open past September
30.
Let me be clear: it is imperative that Con-
gress provide long-term stability and funding.
Congress, specifically the Senate, needs to
get its work done and halt the ridiculous and
irresponsible lurching from short-term fix to
short-term fix. Shutting down the government
does nothing but harm Americans. The shut-
down earlier this year resulted in Coast Guard
personnel going without a pay check for 35
days. I have a bill to ensure that never hap-
pens again.
The continuing resolution includes provi-
sions that I strongly support. I am glad it con-
tains language to stop roughly $1.2 billion in
cuts to transit formula funding from going into
effect on October 1, 2019. Had this language
not been included, the so-called ‘‘Rosten-
kowski test’’ would have been triggered for the
first time ever, leading to a roughly 12 percent
cut in funding to transit agencies. This test,
originally intended to prevent overspending
from the Highway Trust Fund, is no longer rel-
evant given that the Trust Fund now consist-
ently relies on General Fund transfers and
should ultimately be repealed.
It also includes funding for Community
Health Centers, which provide a vital lifeline
for health care services to thousands of Or-
egonians and millions of Americans in rural
and underserved communities. It also modifies
Medicaid’s drug rebate program to ensure that
rebates paid to the federal government and
the states by brand name drug manufacturers
are calculated based solely on the price of a
brand name drug, and not on generic drug
prices.
It includes language to ensure the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs (VA) has the funding
it needs to process claims from Blue Water
Navy Veterans impacted by Agent Orange as
well as critical provisions that will significantly
expand enrollment in the World Trade Center
Health Program, aiding 9/11 first responders
and survivors.
Importantly, the bill provides $250 million in
aid to Ukraine to help it defend itself from
Russian aggression, which President Trump
suspiciously delayed this summer. Disturb-
ingly, Trump may have even tried to use this
aid as leverage to coerce Ukraine into con-
ducting politically-motivated investigations to
help Trump’s former campaign chairman Paul
Manafort and to target former Vice President
Joe Biden’s family.
However, I am extremely disappointed that
the continuing resolution did not address a
highway program funding issue created by the
Republicans in the last surface-transportation
reauthorization bill. Section 1438 of the Fix
America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act
rescinds $7.6 billion of Federal highway fund-
ing on July 1, 2020. State Departments of
Transportation are very concerned about the
impact of the rescission on planning, construc-
tion, and repair of roads and bridges, and it is
imperative that we address this before we fi-
nalize the fiscal year 2020 appropriations bills.
I also have serious concerns with the bill’s
attempt to reimburse the Commodity Credit
Corporation for trade relief that has been dis-
bursed to farmers and ranchers hurt by Presi-
dent Trump’s trade war with China. While’s
there’s no doubt that farmers and ranchers
have suffered under President Trump’s trade
policies, this legislation essentially clears the
way for the president to continue his erratic
trade policies unchecked by providing an ab-
surd bailout of more than $20 billion.
I hope the Senate can get its work done
during the next eight weeks so we can stop
the budget gimmicks and spend our time
working on important issues like improving ac-
cess to health care and repairing our dilapi-
dated infrastructure. That is what Americans
expect, and that is what they deserve.
f
RECOGNIZING THE BRYAN/COL-
LEGE STATION HABITAT FOR
HUMANITY
HON. BILL FLORES
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. FLORES. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Bryan-College Station Habitat
for Humanity, which is celebrating its 30th an-
niversary this year.
The Bryan-College Station Habitat for Hu-
manity was founded in 1989 when a Texas
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K20SE8.006 E20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1191
September 20, 2019
A&M University college student named Heath-
er Hilton came across a brochure and won-
dered why there was no locally run affiliate of
Habitat for Humanity International, a nonprofit,
ecumenical Christian housing organization.
Heather contacted other pillars of the commu-
nity who also noticed the lack of affordable
housing in the Brazos Valley. Since its subse-
quent formation, the Bryan-College Station
Habitat for Humanity has continued its mission
of putting God’s love into action by building
homes, communities, and hope in Brazos
County, Texas.
In 1990, Victor and Amelia Gonzalez pur-
chased the first home built by Bryan-College
Station Habitat for Humanity. This opportunity
allowed them and their three children to move
out of their small trailer with no heating or
cooling and a large hole in the floor. In 2012,
they paid off their mortgage on the home. The
Gonzalez family is just one example of the
more than 1,000 people the Bryan-College
Station Habitat for Humanity has helped in
their 30 years of existence.
The Bryan-College Station Habitat for Hu-
manity has served 456 adults and 816 chil-
dren by providing homeownership opportuni-
ties to individuals and families who earn be-
tween 35 and 80 percent of the area’s median
income. This past August, the Bryan-College
Station Habitat for Humanity raised the walls
of its 298th home, and will reach its 300th
home milestone this year.
The Bryan-College Station Habitat for Hu-
manity is able to provide these opportunities to
those in need through financial donations, vol-
unteer labor, efficient building methods, stand-
ardized designs, and zero interest loans. Over
70 percent of the land and construction costs
come from the generous donations from busi-
nesses, individuals, and other private sources.
Other costs are covered by mortgage pay-
ments of the existing Habitat for Humanity
homeowners and revenue from the Bryan-Col-
lege Station ReStore which opened in 1995
selling building supplies, furniture, appliances,
and home décor.
In addition to constructing new homes, the
Bryan-College Station Habitat for Humanity
has also started a Community Home Repair
program to serve low-income residents. Since
the program’s inception in 2015, it has served
another 209 homeowners in the Brazos Val-
ley.
The work Habitat for Humanity does is vital
to the success of families in the Brazos Valley.
A 2018 study conducted by the Bush School
of Government and Public Service found that
families in Habitat homes visit the doctor less
for mold related illnesses, the children have in-
creased performance in school, and parents
are more confident in funding their children’s
education. The Bryan-College Station Habitat
for Humanity does more than build and repair
homes; they bring people from all walks of life
together to work toward a common goal: dem-
onstrating God’s love by giving a hand up to
those in need of decent, affordable places to
live.
Madam Speaker, it is clear that the Bryan-
College Station Habitat for Humanity has had
a large and positive impact on the Brazos Val-
ley in their 30 years of operation. I congratu-
late them on reaching this milestone and I
look forward to seeing their continued suc-
cess.
As I close today, I urge all Americans to
continue praying for our country, for our vet-
erans, for our military men and women who
protect us, and for our first responders who
keep us safe at home.
f
HONORING KIRK-CASEY AMERICAN
LEGION POST 366 IN SENECA
FALLS, NEW YORK FOR ITS ONE
HUNDRETH ANNIVERSARY
HON. TOM REED
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
recognize and honor Kirk-Casey American Le-
gion Post 366 in Seneca Falls, New York for
its one hundredth Anniversary.
A charter was put in place by New York
State for Kirk-Casey American Legion Post
366 in Seneca Falls on September 8, 1919.
The post was named in honor of local citizens,
Frederick Kirk and Maynard Casey, two mili-
tary members killed in action during World
War I. The first meeting of Kirk-Casey Amer-
ican Legion Post 366 was held on September
19, 1919 where the name was chosen. Six
days later, Fata Martin was the first woman
enrolled in the post. Fata Martin served as a
nurse in France after training at Willard State
Hospital in Romulus.
On February 22, 1921, a women’s auxiliary
was organized and a charter was received on
May 23, 1923. Property was purchased on
April 2, 1924, known as the Casey Property,
which was located at 48 State Street, Seneca
Falls, New York. This property was used to
build the post home, which is still in use. The
post home was dedicated on May 18, 1929.
The rich and varied history of this post is a
long-lasting legacy that I wish to share with
my colleagues here, the constituents in my
district and the American people. Kirk-Casey
American Legion Post 366 is the first char-
tered post in Seneca County and is one of the
longest chartered posts in the American Le-
gion’s seventh district. I applaud the efforts of
this post on behalf and for veterans over the
years and wish them continued success in the
future.
Given the above, I ask that this Legislative
Body pause in its deliberations and join me to
recognize Kirk-Casey American Legion Post
366 in Seneca Falls, New York for its one
hundredth Anniversary.
f
IN HONOR OF JOHN POWELL
HON. ANDY BARR
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. BARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of a special man, Mr. John Pow-
ell of Lexington, Kentucky. Mr. Powell is part
of a special group of heroes that served our
nation during World War II. Mr. Powell cele-
brates his 100th birthday on September 22nd.
Mr. Powell was born in Pennsylvania. He
was drafted into the United States Army on
April 4, 1941. He was expected to serve for
one year, but instead served nearly five years.
He was an artilleryman who landed on Omaha
Beach just 17 days after D-Day. He and his
unit pushed all the way to the Rhine River in
Germany. Mr. Powell earned the rank of Mas-
ter Sergeant and was awarded the WWII Vic-
tory Medal, the European-African-Middle East-
ern Campaign Medal, the American Defense
Medal, the Operation Overload Medal, the
American Campaign Medal, the Army Good
Conduct Medal, and the Bronze Star.
Mr. Powell returned home and worked for
businesses in upstate New York. He later
landed a job with IBM as a manager and was
transferred to Lexington, Kentucky where he
worked for 28 years prior to retirement. Mr.
Powell married his wife Betty and they were
blessed with two daughters, Paula and Mar-
sha. Mr. and Mrs. Powell will celebrate their
77th anniversary this New Year’s Eve.
Mr. Powell and his fellow veterans are true
heroes. As members of the ‘‘Greatest Genera-
tion’’, they willingly served to protect and de-
fend the freedoms that we enjoy today. I am
humbled to honor the service of Mr. John
Powell and to celebrate his upcoming 100th
birthday before the United States Congress.
f
HONORING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF SPORTS FOUNDATION,
INC.
HON. JOSÉ E. SERRANO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. SERRANO. Madam Speaker, it is my
pleasure to honor Sports Foundation, Inc. on
their 50th Anniversary of tireless advocacy to
improve the lives of Bronx residents. This or-
ganization is a great example of extraordinary
contributions that community based groups
and outstanding individuals have made in my
district in the Bronx.
Mr. Robert Williams and Mr. Claude
‘‘Buddy’’ Young founded Sports Foundation,
Inc. in 1969. Mr. Williams was born and raised
in the Bronx, attended Theodore Roosevelt
High School and was captain of NYU’s bas-
ketball team while earning a bachelors in edu-
cation from there. Mr. Williams was also the
first African-American assistant basketball
coach at NYU. Throughout his career, basket-
ball and scholarship were two of his biggest
priorities. Mr. ‘‘Buddy’’ Young was one of the
first black men to play pro football. He started
playing at the University of Illinois, and then
was drafted into the Armed Services, and
played with one of the service teams. At the
end of his military service, Mr. Young played
for ten years in the All-America Football Con-
ference and National Football League.
The dedication of Sports Foundation, Inc. to
promote social responsibility to disadvantaged
and at-risk youth has facilitated their ability to
foster, develop and encourage positive youth
development using sports as a method of
change. Their work has created a lasting im-
pact in my community and participants have
been all the better for it. The variety of pro-
grams such as prevention counseling, sports
and fitness activities, music/entertainment, and
educational and community service, has
helped to develop healthy bodies and strong
minds in the youth from this community. Their
location in the South Bronx placed this organi-
zation on the front lines in the war against
poverty, obesity, hunger, drugs, and violence.
Sports Foundation, Inc. is now focused on
transforming the foundation into the premier
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A20SE8.009 E20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1192 September 20, 2019
youth services provider capable of reaching an
ever-expanding and greatly underserved youth
population.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Sports Foundation, Inc. for
their steadfast dedication and years of service
to our Bronx residents, and for their long-
standing commitment to improving our com-
munity.
f
HIDDEN FIGURES CONGRESSIONAL
GOLD MEDAL ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. JOYCE BEATTY
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, September 19, 2019
Mrs. BEATTY. Madam Speaker, Katherine
Johnson, Dr. Christine Darden, Dorothy
Vaughan, and Mary Jackson; most people
know them as the ‘‘Hidden Figures.’’
Well, Madam Speaker, I think it’s safe to
say they are ‘‘hidden figures’’ no longer.
Thanks to them and many other women, we
were able to reach for the stars and put a man
on the moon.
We honor these brave, brilliant women.
They accomplished what many thought impos-
sible and proved—to paraphrase Katherine
Johnson—that ‘‘Girls are capable of doing ev-
erything men are capable of doing. Sometimes
they even have more imagination than men.’’
In that spirit, I am proud to be a cosponsor
of the Hidden Figures Congressional Gold
Medal Act and urge all my colleagues to sup-
port this resolution.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JENNIFER WEXTON
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Ms. WEXTON. Madam Speaker, I was on
the floor but missed the vote on H.R. 535, the
Department of Veteran Affairs Expiring Au-
thorities Act (Roll Call 536). Had I voted, I
would have voted YEA.
f
HONORING PRESIDENT MOHAMED
BEJI CAID ESSEBSI
HON. BILL FLORES
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, September 20, 2019
Mr. FLORES. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mohamed Beji Caid Essebsi, the first
democratically elected president of Tunisia,
who passed away on July 25, 2019.
President Caid Essebsi was born November
29, 1926, in Sidi Bou Said, Tunisia. In 1950
he went to study law in Paris, France, and
when he returned, he joined the independence
movement led by future President Habib
Bourguiba. Following Tunisia’s independence
from France in 1956, he served as
Bourguiba’s adviser and in his cabinet from
1957 to 1951. His posts included Chief of Re-
gional Administration, Interior Minister, De-
fense Minister, and Ambassador to France.
Ten years after being sidelined for advo-
cating for democratization, President Caid
Essebsi returned to public service in 1981,
serving as Minister of Foreign Affairs until
1986. In 1987, Prime Minister Zine el Abidine
Ben Ali staged a bloodless coup against Presi-
dent Bourguiba. Under the new regime, Presi-
dent Caid Essebsi was appointed as Ambas-
sador to Germany. He later returned to serve
from 1990 to 1991 as the President of the
Chamber of Deputies, the former lower cham-
ber of the Tunisian parliament.
In 2010, the citizens of Tunisia took part in
a campaign of civil resistance against Presi-
dent Ben Ali. Their demonstrations against
high unemployment, food inflation, and lack of
political freedom led to the eventual ouster of
President Ben Ali. The Tunisian people’s revo-
lutionary success sparked a wave of protests
and government overthrows across the Middle
East, resulting in the Arab Spring. In the after-
math of their success, Tunisians were in need
of leadership while trying to form a new and
democratic form of government. In early 2011,
acting President Fouad Mebazaa appointed
President Caid Essebsi, after almost 20 years
of private life, as the new Prime Minister for
his record of patriotism, loyalty, and commit-
ment to democracy.
In 2011, following elections for the Con-
stituent Assembly of Tunisia, the body
charged with writing a new constitution, Presi-
dent Caid Essebsi left office. As the country’s
new constitution was being written, President
Caid Essebsi founded a new political party
named ‘‘Nidaa Tounes’’ which translates to
‘‘Tunisia’s Call.’’ He founded this party as a
democracy-oriented alternative to the lslamist
Ennahda party which had recently taken
power.
In early 2014, the country’s new constitution
was passed and ratified; followed by elections
to form a new system of government. Par-
liamentary elections were held in October of
that year and Nidaa Tounes won a plurality of
the seats. The next month, President Caid
Essebsi was elected as President of Tunisia in
the country’s first free and fair elections. Dur-
ing his presidency, he supported a secular so-
ciety and legislation that promoted women’s
rights.
Last year, I had the pleasure of meeting
President Caid Essebsi on a House Democ-
racy Partnership trip to Tunisia to promote
their continuing democratic progress. I enjoyed
his company and was saddened to hear of his
passing. It is my fervent hope that in the up-
coming elections to replace him, Tunisia con-
tinues to build upon the democratic processes
that he so strongly supported.
Madam Speaker, President Mohamed Beji
Caid Essebsi’s life was defined by his service
to his country. He will be forever remembered
as a husband, a father, a selfless public serv-
ant, a champion for democracy, and a friend.
My wife, Gina, and I offer our deepest and
heartfelt condolences to the Caid Essebsi fam-
ily. We also lift up the family and friends of
President Caid Essebsi in our prayers.
As I close today, I urge all Americans to
continue praying for our country, for our vet-
erans, for our military men and women who
protect us, and for our first responders who
keep us safe at home.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A20SE8.012 E20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1044
Friday, September 20, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
The Senate was not in session and stands ad-
journed until 3 p.m., on Monday, September 23,
2019.
Committee Meetings
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 28 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4429–4456; and 6 resolutions, H.
Res. 569–574 were introduced. Pages H7864–66
Additional Cosponsors: Page H7867
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H7839, H7853
Forced Arbitration Injustice Repeal Act: The
House passed H.R. 1423, to amend title 9 of the
United States Code with respect to arbitration, by a
recorded vote of 225 ayes to 186 noes, Roll No.
540. Pages H7840–53
Pursuant to the Rule, it shall be in order to con-
sider as an original bill for the purpose of amend-
ment under the five-minute rule an amendment in
the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee print 116–32 modified by the
amendment printed in part A of H. Rept. 116–210,
in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Committee on the Judi-
ciary now printed in the bill. Pages H7848–49
Agreed to:
Fletcher amendment (No. 2 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–210) that clarifies that nothing in this
act shall be construed to prohibit the use of arbitra-
tion on a voluntary basis when consent is given after
the dispute arises. Pages H7850–51, H7852
Rejected:
Jordan amendment (No. 1 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–210) that sought to strike from the bill
safe-harbor provisions that allow unions and union
employees to keep and enforce union-negotiated pre-
dispute mandatory binding arbitration agreements
with employers or other unions, while the bill’s
other provisions abrogate non-union employees’
rights to keep and enforce their own agreements (by
a recorded vote of 161 ayes to 253 noes, Roll No.
539). Pages H7849–50, H7851–52
H. Res. 558, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 1423) was agreed to Wednesday,
September 18th.
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 12 noon on Tuesday, September 24th for Morning
Hour debate. Page H7857
Member Resignation: Read a letter from Rep-
resentative Duffy, wherein he resigned as Represent-
ative for the Seventh Congressional District of Wis-
consin, effective at 6 p.m. on Monday, September
23, 2019. Page H7864
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two recorded votes devel-
oped during the proceedings of today and appear on
pages H7851–52 and H7852. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 12:48 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D20SE9.REC D20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1045
September 20, 2019
Committee Meetings
BUILDING A 100 PERCENT CLEAN
ECONOMY: SOLUTIONS FOR THE U.S.
BUILDING SECTOR
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Energy held a hearing entitled ‘‘Building a 100 Per-
cent Clean Economy: Solutions for the U.S. Building
Sector’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee con-
cluded a markup on H.R. 123, the ‘‘FHA Additional
Credit Pilot Program Reauthorization Act’’; H.R.
132, the ‘‘North America Development Bank Im-
provement Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4029, the ‘‘Tribal
Eligibility for Homeless Assistance Grants Act of
2019’’; H.R. 4067, the ‘‘Financial Inclusion in
Banking Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4242, the ‘‘Greater Ac-
countability in Pay Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4300, the
‘‘Fostering Stable Housing Opportunities Act of
2019’’; H.R. 4302, the ‘‘Facilitating Access to
Homeless Assistance Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4328, the
‘‘Protecting Innocent Consumers Affected by a Shut-
down Act’’; H.R. 4329, the ‘‘ESG Disclosure Sim-
plification Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4344, to amend the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 to allow for the
SEC to seek and Federal courts to grant restitution
to investors and disgorgement of unjust enrichment;
H.R. 4335, the ‘‘8–K Trading Gap Act of 2019’’;
and H.R. 4320, the ‘‘Corporate Management Ac-
countability Act of 2019’’. H.R. 123, H.R. 132,
H.R. 4029, H.R. 4067, H.R. 4242, H.R. 4300,
H.R. 4302, H.R. 4320, H.R. 4328, H.R. 4329,
H.R. 4335, and H.R. 4344 were ordered reported,
as amended.
MEMBER DAY HEARING
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day Hearing’’. Testimony
was heard from Chairman Takano, and Representa-
tives Judy Chu of California, Luria, Gallagher,
Gianforte, Newhouse, Hartzler, Haaland,
Malinowski, King of Iowa, Quigley, Katko, Stivers,
Marshall, and Roe of Tennessee.
CONFRONTING VIOLENT WHITE
SUPREMACY (PART III): ADDRESSING THE
TRANSNATIONAL TERRORIST THREAT
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
National Security; and the Subcommittee on Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties held a joint hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Confronting Violent White Supremacy (Part
III): Addressing the Transnational Terrorist Threat’’.
Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
SEPTEMBER 23, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D20SE9.REC D20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1046 September 20, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, September 23
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of the nomination of Brian McGuire, of New York, to be
a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury, and vote on
the motion to invoke cloture thereon at 5:30 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Tuesday, September 24
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: To be announced.
Extension of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Barr, Andy, Ky., E1191
Beatty, Joyce, Ohio, E1192
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E1190
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E1189
Flores, Bill, Tex., E1189, E1190, E1192
Foster, Bill, Ill., E1189
Green, Mark E., Tenn., E1187
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E1190
Murphy, Stephanie M., Fla., E1188
Panetta, Jimmy, Calif., E1187
Price, David E., N.C., E1188
Reed, Tom, N.Y., E1189, E1191
Schiff, Adam B., Calif., E1187, E1188
Serrano, José E., N.Y., E1191
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E1187, E1190
Walden, Greg, Ore., E1187
Wexton, Jennifer, Va., E1192
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Sep 21, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D20SE9.REC D20SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
