Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H2831
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019 No. 53
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. COSTA).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
March 27, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JIM COSTA
to act as Speaker pro tempore on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. BOST) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, this week we
celebrate Public Schools Week. It
serves as a reminder that every child
deserves access to quality education
that helps them reach their full poten-
tial.
Public schools are where our stu-
dents become citizens. They learn to
think critically, solve problems, and
build relationships. They grow to con-
tribute to our society, our economy,
and our communities, and it all starts
with the men and women who want to
make a difference.
I want to thank our teachers and
educators and professionals who work
in these fields, and I want to include
Ms. Lucy Gamby, who was my sixth
grade teacher, and thank her for the
influence that she had in my life. I am
sure every one of us has someone like
that that is that special teacher.
WORLD DOWN SYNDROME DAY
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, on March 21,
we celebrated Down Syndrome Day.
Many people don’t know this, but
they do know I have 11 grandchildren.
My sixth grandchild and third grand-
son is Stanley. Stanley has Down’s,
and Stanley is an amazing, fun child,
wonderful.
You know, it is kind of our job as
grandparents to make sure that each
grandchild believes that they are the
favorite, and I do my best to do that,
but today I want to recognize Stanley
because I want to make sure that peo-
ple understand that the people and the
families that are involved and have
Down syndrome children or grand-
children, that we live and we work to
make sure that they can achieve to the
highest level that they can in life. So
this day I want to say, ‘‘Stanley, I love
you.’’
We want to recognize all of our chil-
dren who have Down’s and our adults
who have Down’s and encourage them
to be the best that they can be.
f
LIBERIAN IMMIGRANTS IN
MINNESOTA NEED PEACE OF MIND
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Minnesota (Mr. PHILLIPS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. PHILLIPS. Mr. Speaker, the
clock is ticking and thousands of Min-
nesotans are running out of time. Busi-
ness owners are going to lose their
workforce, workers are going to lose
their jobs, and children are going to
lose their parents, and it will be be-
cause we here in Congress failed to
take simple action when we were called
to make change.
We have been handed a game-winning
layup or, in Minnesota terms, an
empty net, and all we have to do is tap
in the puck. All we have to do is say to
our Liberian population who came here
fleeing bloody civil war and the terrors
of the Ebola virus: You matter; you are
doing everything right. The world took
everything from you, and you came to
our country. You work hard, legally,
you pay your taxes, and you are valued
members of our community.
But because we gave Liberians an im-
migration status DED, that does not
allow a pathway to citizenship; and be-
cause that status expires now in 4 days,
these friends, neighbors, and family
members will be subject to deporta-
tion, and it will tear our community
apart, and it will be on us.
Mr. Speaker, I recently heard from
Nicole Mattson, a healthcare employer
in senior care back in the Twin Cities:
‘‘We don’t have enough workers. At my
facility, 60 percent of employees are
immigrants, and over half of those are
Liberians. We would have to say good-
bye to a pool of talent that is highly
skilled and educated.
‘‘I have no idea why we would leave
behind such a critically important
group of people to the healthcare in-
dustry. Very simply, we cannot do the
work, we cannot care for people, we
cannot care for seniors without them.
We need them here, and we are glad
they are here.’’
Mr. Speaker, I would say that we
need courage to pass a legislative fix to
save Minnesota’s healthcare industry
and keep hardworking members of our
population home. I would say that we
need courage to keep our families and
communities and brothers and sisters
together. This is so simple and so easy,
that we do not even need courage. We
just need to pass a bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Mar 27, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.000 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2832 March 27, 2019
These are immigrants who have done
everything the right way: They are
here legally; they work hard; they pay
their taxes; and they have made them-
selves irreplaceable contributors to our
communities.
Their immigration status has been
extended by every President from Bill
Clinton to Donald Trump. These would
be undocumented citizens of our very
own creation.
If you need the human argument,
hear it from my constituent, Michael:
‘‘Going back to Liberia is not an option
for me. My only brother, who we were
not able to bring to America, died in
Liberia a few years ago. My parents
and siblings all live here in the United
States.
‘‘I was recently accepted into a doc-
toral program in education. My whole
life is here. This is my home. Liberia is
a fragile country still recovering from
a decades-long war.’’
Or Matthew, who could lose his older
brother: ‘‘It affects me deeply as a U.S.
citizen. This is someone I look up to. If
he was to up and leave the U.S., that
would be very difficult for him, for me.
He has a daughter. I cannot take on
that responsibility of being my niece’s
caretaker.
‘‘I cannot even imagine the night-
mare that this will create in my com-
munity. This is not just about me and
my family; it is about our community.
We are going to be losing friends and
family. I am not ready for this.’’
We have the legislation. We have a
fix ready to go to move DED holders to
TPS for 3 years while we pass a more
comprehensive fix.
So, Mr. Speaker, I say to my col-
leagues, ask yourselves: Are we here to
make a difference? Are you here to
make people’s lives better? Are you
here to help business owners and work-
ers, or are you here to keep playing
politics with people’s lives?
Let’s rise to the occasion and be bet-
ter than that and finally, at long last,
give our Liberian community the peace
of mind that they so richly deserve.
f
KINETIC KIDS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. HURD) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to spotlight Kinetic Kids, an
organization in my hometown that
helps more than 2,800 children with
special needs in San Antonio, Schertz,
and New Braunfels.
A few weeks ago, I joined over 470
Texans in the cold and the wet to sup-
port these local children with special
needs.
In 2001, Kinetic Kids was founded by
Tracey Fontenot and Kacey Wernli, pe-
diatric physical therapists who saw
that children with special needs needed
more exercise. They needed motiva-
tion; they needed camaraderie; they
needed the joy that comes from being
part of a team.
I am proud to be part of their team,
and I will always be here to cheer them
on.
Congratulations on a great event,
and thank you for the important work
you do in the community.
FIGHTING THE BUREAUCRACY
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker, my
team and I are committed to fighting
the bureaucracy for folks I represent
across the 23rd Congressional District
of Texas who can’t battle it on their
own.
Recently, my team helped Kinney
County in south Texas cut through
Federal red tape to secure $4 million in
funding and spare the county from fi-
nancial ruin. The county was being
punished simply for following orders,
but due to conflicting information
from Washington bureaucrats regard-
ing how much to pay employees at the
county detention center, they were
told they owed the Federal Govern-
ment $4 million.
Once my office heard about this
issue, we worked relentlessly with the
U.S. Marshals Service to ensure these
costs were covered.
I thank Kinney County Judge Tully
Shahan for informing me of this issue
and the Department of Justice for
working with my office to resolve this
situation.
WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTH
Mr. HURD of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
Joyce Meyer once said that ‘‘teachers
can change lives with just the right
mix of chalk and challenges.’’
For Amistad National Recreation
Area Education Specialist Lisa
Nielsen, her chalk is a trail, a shore-
line, and a pair of binoculars. The 28-
year National Park Service veteran has
created several innovative and inter-
active programs that have educated
tens of thousands of Texans I represent
of all ages on the importance of con-
servation and maintaining our south
and west Texas natural treasures for
future generations to come.
I am proud to rise today to honor
Lisa and all of the women who are
making an impact each day across the
23rd Congressional District of Texas as
we continue to celebrate Women’s His-
tory Month.
f
BUDGET PROPOSAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. HOYER).
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I rise out
of a deep concern for our country and
its ability to sustain investments in
growing our economy and making op-
portunities available for our people.
Our country suffered the longest gov-
ernment shutdown in its history just a
few months ago. For 35 days, 800,000
Federal employees and their families
were forced to go without paychecks.
Our economy was burdened by uncer-
tainty and a lack of confidence in our
leaders.
That shutdown was the direct result
of the Trump administration’s
confrontational approach to governing
and its irresponsible decision to insist
on a position that Congress had al-
ready rejected.
I would have hoped that they learned
from that experience, but it appears
that that is not the case. Now Presi-
dent Trump and Mick Mulvaney—a
former colleague of ours who voted not
only to shut down the government, but
against the wishes of the Republican
Speaker, voted against opening govern-
ment up—have sent to Congress a
budget proposal that ramps up con-
frontation and sets up an even more
difficult impasse.
Their budget proposal rejects 6 years
of governing consensus enshrined in
three 2-year budget agreements to
raise the caps put in place by the Budg-
et Control Act in a bipartisan way and
according to the principles of parity,
fairness, and equality.
Adhering to that path and working
together to raise the caps responsibly
and at the same rate for defense and
nondefense investments would be, in
my view, the best way to ensure that
appropriations for next year proceed on
a bipartisan basis so that we can do the
job of funding the government and
avert another unnecessary, dangerous,
and harmful shutdown in October.
The administration’s proposal of
using the overseas contingency oper-
ations account to avoid negotiating
with Congress on responsibly dealing
with the BCA caps and hiding increases
in defense funding is a massive gim-
mick.
Who said that? The Republican ma-
jority said that a number of years ago.
It is more than just an accounting
sleight of hand, with real implications
for our national security planning and
long-term strategy.
The OCO account, again, overseas
contingency operations account, was
created to fund imminent defense pri-
orities outside of the normal Pentagon
budget planning cycle.
Now Mr. Mulvaney wants to use OCO
at the rate of some $175 billion-plus as
if Afghanistan, in which we have been
involved for some 17 years, is a contin-
gency. It is not a contingency. It is an
operating expense.
If OCO were used in the way the ad-
ministration intends, it could cripple
multiyear planning by our military by
calling into question every penny shift-
ed into that account in future years.
It is also disingenuous for them to
demand that Congress pour money into
defense through what Mr. Mulvaney
himself has called a ‘‘backdoor slush
fund.’’ That is what he called OCO in
2015 when he was a Member of Con-
gress.
And now that same Mr. Mulvaney,
the Acting Chief of Staff and, frankly,
I believe, also, the Acting OMB Direc-
tor, proposes to use what he called a
backdoor slush fund without acknowl-
edging the need to compromise else-
where on the ledger.
b 1015
This is fiscal irresponsibility at its
worst, because it is a veneer of concern
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Mar 27, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.002 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2833
March 27, 2019
for fiscal discipline used to hide the
ugly truth of fiscal recklessness and
brinksmanship. The Trump-Mulvaney
budget is, to put it bluntly, a fraud.
It is the Congress’ job to move ahead
with good faith efforts to agree on rais-
ing the caps. We have a procedure
called sequester that, if we do not
amend the caps, will go into effect 15
days after we adjourn this session and
cut to levels that no Member of Con-
gress, in my view, believes is reason-
able, rational, or responsible. It would
automatically occur if we do not pass a
caps bill.
That is indicative that there is bipar-
tisan agreement, which has happened
over the last 6 years in 2-year cycles,
that the caps required by the sequester
bill were irrational. I think there is a
consensus. So, as opposed to confronta-
tion, and to avoid a shutdown in Octo-
ber, we ought to come to an agreement.
The President, of course, needs to be
part of that agreement, because he
would need to sign legislation amend-
ing the sequester act.
Appropriators need guidance, also, to
begin the hard work of writing funding
bills. They need to know what the
agreed spending level will be. We call it
a 302(a). What it really means is: How
much money are you going to spend on
discretionary spending for defense and
nondefense objectives?
Now, I am an appropriator. I haven’t
served on the committee for some
years, because I am in the leadership,
but I am on leave. I understand as well
as anyone how important it is to have
agreed-upon top-line numbers in order
for the committee to do its work effec-
tively on a bipartisan basis.
I will tell my Republican colleagues,
as I have told my Democratic col-
leagues, it is my intention, as majority
of the House of Representatives, to pro-
vide for the passage of the appropria-
tions bills through the House of Rep-
resentatives by the end of June.
The Budget Act requires us to do it
by June 30. We have never done it. We
haven’t done it on our side; the Repub-
licans haven’t done it on their side.
What inevitably happens is we don’t
get our work done, and we had a shut-
down last year and this year of historic
proportions and of historic cost and of
historic undermining of confidence in
the United States of America here and
around the world.
We need to get to work; we need to
get to work together; and we need to
get this job done. Let’s strive to
achieve that which I know is achiev-
able.
I have talked to Ms. GRANGER. I have
talked to the ranking member of the
Budget Committee here in the House,
STEVE WOMACK, a good friend of mine.
I have talked to Senator ENZI, the
chairman in the Senate. And I have
talked to Senator MCCONNELL. I
haven’t heard from anybody who
doesn’t think we need to get caps es-
tablished so that we can do our work
for the American people and reestab-
lish confidence in the rational oper-
ations of the Congress. It won’t be
easy, but it is necessary.
Let us not delude ourselves into be-
lieving, just a few weeks removed from
the longest government shutdown in
our history, that the administration’s
shortsighted approach will lead to any-
thing but another shutdown at the end
of the fiscal year. Divided government
need not be confrontational govern-
ment.
I tell people on a regular basis that
the Congress is less than the sum of its
parts. What do I mean by that? I mean
the individual Members have integrity
and a willingness to work together,
but, as a body, we have found ourselves
unable or unwilling to do just that. We
are less than the sum of our parts, less
than the sum of our Members’ intellect
and willingness to act responsibly.
We can disagree on details, but we
must try to reach agreement on the
caps in order to assist appropriators,
promote fiscal responsibility, reduce
uncertainty, and protect the ability of
our military to plan its budget over the
long term with confidence.
If OCO is relied upon, in terms of bil-
lions of dollars, they cannot do that. It
is undermining our national security,
as well as undermining the ability to
meet our domestic needs.
The Trump-Mulvaney budget pro-
posal was, sadly, a missed opportunity
and more of a fiscally irresponsible
charade.
I say to my friends on both sides of
the aisle: Let us strive to not miss our
own opportunity to meet in good faith
and produce a budget caps agreement
that promotes fiscal sanity, upholds
the principle of parity, and allows us to
invest in a better future for our coun-
try. Certainly, we ought to expect no
less of ourselves, and, certainly, that is
what our constituents expect of us.
Then, let us proceed to achieve a re-
alistic, fiscally responsible path toward
a real, sustainable budget agreement
worthy of our duty to our country and
constituents and to future generations.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
come together, to reason together, and
to establish a plan to proceed, not just
for this year, but for a decade to come,
that is fiscally responsible, meets the
challenges that we have, and seizes the
opportunities that are in front of us.
f
DIGNITY, OPPORTUNITY, AND
AMERICAN VALUE OF WORK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
South Dakota (Mr. JOHNSON) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, I grew up in a large working-
class family in central South Dakota. I
suppose there were some years when we
were more poor than we were working
class. But I want to make it clear, my
parents worked hard every single day.
So did I, and so did my brother and my
sisters.
Even with that hard work, there were
times when we needed help from gov-
ernment to get by. I am who I am
today because of the experiences of
both welfare and hard work.
Government assistance can help meet
people’s basic needs. We all know that.
But on its own, welfare alone means
surviving just barely on the edges. Wel-
fare can meet short-term basic needs,
but education and work—yes, edu-
cation and work—they deliver long-
term hope and dignity and purpose and
opportunity.
That brings me, today, to the Supple-
mental Nutrition Assistance Program,
SNAP. Many of us call it food stamps.
I know this program well from a num-
ber of personal and professional experi-
ences.
Most of you probably know that,
under Federal law, able-bodied nonsen-
iors—people between the ages of 18 and
50—who don’t have children at home
are required to work or train or volun-
teer or go to school for 20 hours a week
to receive their benefits.
To most Americans, these work re-
quirements are common sense, just as
they were when they were passed, in
1986, into law in a bipartisan manner.
They are common sense because work
isn’t punishment. Work is opportunity.
Unfortunately, over the years, some
States have used gimmicks and loop-
holes to trigger waivers. Those waivers
water down the work requirements
that we have been talking about.
These, I am sure, well-intentioned but
misguided efforts, mean that one-third
of our country lives in an area with no
work requirements.
Today, despite a record-high 7 mil-
lion job openings, we have 2.7 million
SNAP recipients who can work but who
aren’t. There is a better way, I am
happy to say, and I want to tell you
about it.
A few years ago, because of State
waivers, too many Arkansans were not
experiencing the kind of dignity and
opportunity that comes from work, so
Arkansas changed course. They put
their work requirements back into
place, and the results were breath-
taking. They were impressive.
People who left the program because
they didn’t work or didn’t train or
didn’t volunteer ended up better off
than they were on welfare. Necessity
pushed them into a job path that
brought them more resources than wel-
fare alone could ever provide.
With all of those people moving off
the welfare rolls and into the work-
place, they were earning money, and
the State saw its revenues go up.
That kind of success can, and is, hap-
pening elsewhere. When Maine reimple-
mented work requirements, incomes of
former enrollees more than doubled
and caseloads declined by 90 percent.
These results show all of us how im-
portant it is for us to close these loop-
holes. USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue
should be commended for his efforts to
do just that through a proposed rule,
making sure that food stamp recipients
are encouraged and rewarded for their
work.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Mar 27, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.005 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2834 March 27, 2019
I want to make very clear, these ac-
tions are not about taking aid away
from areas that are struggling with
high unemployment. There are clear
exceptions for those areas. Instead,
this is about prompting more States
and more citizens to experience the
successes that have been experienced
by Maine and by Arkansas.
We all know that every one of us does
better, every single one of us does bet-
ter, when we are pushed, when we are
moved past our comfort level. Growth
requires effort. That is true in ath-
letics; that is true in academics; that is
true in raising children; and that is
true in all other areas of life as well.
Denying millions of able-bodied SNAP
recipients that push, that growth, also
denies them a chance at a better fu-
ture.
In States where work requirements
have been reinstituted, a clearer path
out of poverty has reemerged. We have
to do that elsewhere. We have to do
that everywhere.
I close today, Mr. Speaker, by saying
that work has dignity; work is oppor-
tunity; and work is an American value.
f
CELEBRATING VAISAKHI
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
HARDER of California). The Chair recog-
nizes the gentleman from California
(Mr. COSTA) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to join the Sikh community in cele-
brating Vaisakhi.
On April 14, Sikhs around the world,
including thousands and thousands in
California’s San Joaquin Valley, will
celebrate the Vaisakhi festival. This
week, we welcome members of the Con-
gressional Sikh Caucus to the Hill to
participate in those celebrations.
The festival marks the new year and
the beginning of the spring season for
the global Sikh community.
The date of the Vaisakhi festival has
tremendous significance in Sikhism.
The festival commemorates the year
1699, when Sikhism emerged as a col-
lective faith in what is now modern-
day India.
It also celebrates both the birthday
of the 10th Sikh guru, Guru Gobind
Singh, and the foundation of the
Khalsa Panth, the Sikh brotherhood.
Sikhs across the globe celebrate this
day with enthusiasm and joy. I know
they do in the rich San Joaquin Valley
that is home to so many who are farm-
ers, businesspeople, and community
leaders. I have the honor to represent
them and to celebrate with them.
This festival models what all cul-
tures strive for: strong communities
coming together to celebrate progress,
renew its dedication to helping one an-
other, and peace.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
please join me in celebrating this spe-
cial tradition in the Sikh community.
WOMEN TRAILBLAZERS
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, every
March, we come together to honor
trailblazing women who have come be-
fore us, who have made a difference
throughout the history of our country
and throughout the world, and those
who continue to pave the way for the
next generation, those who have bro-
ken the glass ceiling, and those who
are role models.
b 1030
The unsung heroines of these coura-
geous pioneering women continue to
always make a difference.
The role model for me, and one who
I must say made the incredible dif-
ference, was our mother, Lena Cordoza
Costa, a daughter of immigrants, born
before the Depression, raised during it,
having to quit school as a freshman in
high school to help raise her seven sib-
lings because her father had been in-
jured in an agricultural accident.
She went on with our father to be—as
Tom Brokaw noted—perhaps America’s
greatest generation, striving with the
values of hard work, of teaching us to
treat others as we would want to be
treated ourselves, and values of com-
mon sense.
As a young boy, learning that, Jim,
you know, the truth is the truth, and
that you should always never forget
those who are less fortunate.
After our father passed away, my
mother in her mid-70s quietly decided
to go back to school and to get her
GED. She didn’t need to. She was a
successful business person; she was an
artist, a voracious reader, and a com-
petitive bridge player.
And when she got her GED, she told
my sister and me. We said, Mom, why
didn’t you tell us?
She says, Well, I wasn’t sure I would
do well.
Our mother did—everything that she
did, she did well, and continued to
serve as a role model.
Later on, the high school in which
she had to quit as a freshman, at a
100th anniversary of that high school,
asked her to come—with myself—and
they presented her her high school di-
ploma.
She was so proud of that high school
diploma. And today, it sits on my desk.
And I show students that you can be
whatever you want to be if you have
the proper role model and encourage-
ment.
It is women who are guiding our Na-
tion towards a more equal future—like
our mother—who make a difference.
Today, I am proud to be a Member of
the most diverse Congress in the
United States’ history, with over 102
women in this body, women serving the
people’s House.
We honor their sacrifice, their bril-
liance, and the strength of their service
for our Nation.
f
JOE BIDEN: DECADES OF BEING
WRONG
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. BABIN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, former Vice
President Joe Biden has been in the
news a lot lately, along with a predict-
able narrative from the Washington
know-it-all chorus and their main-
stream media partners that he has a
distinguished record and reputation as
an expert on foreign policy.
How very ‘‘Washington’’ it is to as-
sume that with his long Washington re-
sume, especially his chairmanship of
the Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, that Joe Biden is a foreign pol-
icy genius.
Nice guy that he is, let’s look at the
facts.
Because America’s national security
depends on America’s wise choice of
our next President, I want to quote the
great Charles Krauthammer, who more
accurately described Mr. Biden’s record
back in 2012.
The Vice President over the last 30 years
holds the American record for being wrong
on the most issues in Foreign Affairs ever.
And the list starts with the nuclear freeze in
the early eighties against Thatcher and
Reagan, which is one of the follies of the era.
He supported it.
He was against aid to the Nicaraguan
Contras, which in the end brought democ-
racy and ended the Sandinista rule at the
time.
He was against Reagan’s expansion of the
defense budget, which bankrupted the Soviet
Union and led to the end of the Soviet Em-
pire.
He was against Reagan on strategic de-
fenses, which is the big advantage that we
have now in missile defense.
And look at where he was on Iraq. He op-
posed the first Iraq war, the Gulf war that
liberated Kuwait, that everyone agrees was a
good thing.
He supported the second Iraq war, which
he, not I, say was a terrible mistake. And
then when the surge happened, he opposed
the surge in Iraq which rescued a losing war
and ended in our leaving with our heads held
high and some promise of the future.
He seems to be the Herbert Hoover of
American foreign policy. And for him to be
the spokesman for the Obama Administra-
tion on these affairs, I think is quite ironic.
It is not just conservative commenta-
tors who can see through the illusion
of Vice President Biden’s foreign policy
judgment.
Robert Gates, former CIA director
and Defense Secretary for George W.
Bush and Barack Obama, had this to
say about Biden in his book, ‘‘Duty:
Memoirs of a Secretary at War’’:
‘‘I think he has been wrong on nearly
every major foreign policy and na-
tional security issue over the past four
decades.’’
I rarely, if ever, agree with Barack
Obama, and I am glad to see our coun-
try is now back on the road to a strong
foreign policy. But I will give Presi-
dent Obama credit for wisely dis-
regarding Vice President Biden’s coun-
sel on, arguably, the greatest achieve-
ment of Obama’s presidency: his au-
thorization in 2011 of the raid by Amer-
ica’s SEAL Teams that killed Osama
Bin Laden.
As Vice President Biden, himself, re-
called to a group of Democrats in 2016,
President Obama asked for a final rec-
ommendation from his national secu-
rity team, and he asked, Joe, what do
you think?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Mar 27, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.006 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2835
March 27, 2019
His answer was, Mr. President, my
suggestion is, don’t go.
Many agree that President Obama
picked Biden as his Vice President in
2008 to quell concerns about his youth
and lack of experience in Foreign Af-
fairs, but in retrospect, it has now be-
come clear that the most useful role he
played was for Mr. Obama to take
whatever he recommended and advised
and conclude that it was probably the
wrong approach.
Mr. Biden now believes that he is the
right man to lead our Nation as Presi-
dent. America will choose a President
in 2020, and I hope that Republicans
and Democrats will conclude, as our
44th President and countless others
have, that the opposite might just be
true.
f
HEALTHCARE FOR ALL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE) for 5 minutes.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
want to take this moment to go down
a very tough, and for many families,
humiliating journey down memory
lane.
Memories full of sick mothers and fa-
thers, sick children, and maybe even
those who lost their life because they
could not get affordable healthcare.
Apparently, this administration
doesn’t understand; for those of us who
were here before the Affordable Care
Act, the years and years of work, the
thousands of pages of testimony, the
many different committees—even my
committee, the Committee on the Ju-
diciary—we heard the pain and cries of
those who did not have health insur-
ance.
Maybe he doesn’t know—the adminis-
tration—the story of the 8-year-old girl
whose family actually took her to the
office of the insurance company—she
had leukemia—to beg for coverage. And
they denied her, and she died.
Maybe they did not hear the story of
the mother whose son had hepatitis be-
cause he had not been able to overcome
his drug addiction, even though he was
a lawyer, and his only basis of
healthcare was the emergency room in
a city hospital;
Or maybe the doctor who drove to
another city hundreds of miles away to
get his intern son, put him in the back-
seat of his car and drive him all the
way back so that he could be inside the
jurisdiction in which his healthcare
covered.
Maybe the administration and the
President do not know about junk in-
surance policies, that when you get to
the hospital, as they look over you in
the emergency room and say, There is
no room at the inn for you because
your insurance doesn’t cover hos-
pitalization.
Or the tap on the door of your hos-
pital room while you are in the bed,
and although you are still ill, you are
evicted because your insurance has
capped.
All of that was eliminated with the
Affordable Care Act.
What a disaster for this administra-
tion to proudly and arrogantly stand
up to take a stand to destroy the Af-
fordable Care Act in my State, in
Texas v. Azar, and how sad it is that
State officials from the moment they
got elected in my State, Republicans,
every day have been fighting to destroy
the Affordable Care Act.
And my own county health depart-
ment is begging for relief; begging for
the expanded Medicaid; begging to
serve the many thousands upon thou-
sands that are in need who are working
poor, but my State refused to accept
the expanded Medicaid. And now, with
great hubris, pompousness, this Gov-
ernment—it is supposed to be for the
people, of which we are—has decided to
take a stand to destroy the Affordable
Care Act.
Rather than do what we are attempt-
ing to do as Democrats and protecting
preexisting conditions and to expand
and improve on healthcare, we are
looking to lower health insurance pre-
miums, strengthen protections for peo-
ple with pre-existing conditions, stop
insurance companies from selling junk
health insurance plans, and reverse the
administration’s healthcare, sabo-
taging needlessly driven-up premiums
and uninsured rates and empower
States to innovate and invest in enroll-
ing more people.
Outreach. I have been engaged in out-
reach and education, and the families
are excited when they are eligible for
insurance.
All of the people that I mentioned,
and some who died, had preexisting
conditions. Over 50 percent of the
American people—maybe upwards of 65
percent—have preexisting conditions.
In 2012, there were 45 million unin-
sured persons, but the Affordable Care
Act was making its way so much so
that we have reduced the amount of
uninsured persons, as the numbers
show in 2018, down to about 28 million,
and we were making steady progress.
What kind of caring attitude do you
have?
Where is your humanity, that you
would take insurance away from sick
children, families, and the elderly, and
that you would allow their prescription
drugs to shoot through the roof, which
is what will happen when you destroy
and implode the Affordable Care Act.
It is not an overnight success. 50
years America was trying to work on a
system that would work, beyond the
Medicare system, and Medicaid.
We are supporting—many of us—a
way to provide healthcare for all, like
Medicare for all. I am supporting this
legislation, but what is happening in
the administration is nothing but an
implosion of a lifeline for the American
people.
We need to stop that now.
CONGRATULATING WHEELING
PARK HIGH SCHOOL SPEECH AND
DEBATE TEAM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
West Virginia (Mr. MCKINLEY) for 5
minutes.
Mr. MCKINLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Wheeling Park
High School Speech and Debate Team,
which has won the West Virginia State
championship for 40 years in a row.
Think about that.
Their uninterrupted string of vic-
tories began when Jimmy Carter was
President, and now has extended
through the administrations of Presi-
dents Reagan, Bush 41, Clinton, Bush
43, President Obama, and now Presi-
dent Trump.
Their winning streak is longer than
most of my staff has been alive. Their
40-year record may very well be the
longest in the country’s history.
Their students are part of a dynasty.
Some even have a personal family leg-
acy because they are following the
footsteps of their parents, who also
won when they competed in the high
school competition at Park.
Look, Generation Z suffers from a lot
of negative stereotypes, but the team
members on the Wheeling Park Speech
and Debate Team are examples of a
great new generation and what they
can do.
These students are dedicated. They
work year-round and compete in com-
petitions to hone their skills. They are
able to convey emotions and sway an
audience while passionately arguing
today’s most pressing topics.
We couldn’t be prouder of these stu-
dents. There is no doubt in my mind,
they have a bright future ahead of
them, and that has everything to do
with their work ethic and dedication.
I would also like to congratulate and
thank their coaches, Bill Cornforth,
Kayla Nelson, Isabella Droginske and
Brigitte Mazure, as well as the team’s
founding coach, Fran Schoolcraft, who
led them through their first 25 vic-
tories.
Congratulations on their first 40, and
here’s to the road to 41.
b 1045
CONGRATULATING AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF
CRITICAL-CARE NURSES
Mr. MCKINLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the 50th anniversary
of the American Association of Crit-
ical-Care Nurses.
My wife, Mary, was a critical-care
nurse for over 45 years and served as
the past president of AACN. Her time
as a critical-care nurse taught me how
difficult it is to have a career in nurs-
ing.
It requires working long hours, week-
ends, and caring for people during the
most challenging times of the patients’
lives. And while sometimes nurses get
to see happy endings, other times, they
share in the emotions of families mak-
ing very difficult decisions.
That is why it is important to honor
the American Association of Critical-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Mar 27, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.008 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2836 March 27, 2019
Care Nurses, their dedication to their
patients, and their push for excellence
because, like their mission statement
says, ‘‘Nothing less is acceptable.’’
f
CHILDCARE CRISIS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. PORTER) for 5 minutes.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
talk about an important issue affecting
families across our country, including
in my home State of California.
I am a single mom, and I know first-
hand that we have a childcare crisis in
this country. Two years ago, I spent
$16,000 on childcare for my daughter
Betsy to attend the U.C. Irvine-Verano
Preschool. That is more than it would
have been for an entire year of tuition
for her to be an undergraduate at U.C.
Irvine.
I was able to keep $5,000 of the money
that I earned pretax to go toward those
childcare expenses in a flexible spend-
ing account, but that didn’t go very far
to cover childcare for Betsy, never
mind my other two children. The $5,000
doesn’t even get me to tax day. This is
the reality of raising a family in Or-
ange County and in so many places
across the country.
In only one State is childcare consid-
ered affordable. Let that sink in. In
every State but one, the majority of
families have to spend more than 7 per-
cent of their income on childcare.
My constituents in the 45th Congres-
sional District have asked me to help
them make childcare affordable.
Jennifer, who works in my district,
has two children under the age of 3.
She and her husband will spend 23 per-
cent of their gross income on childcare
next year. That is not affordable.
In Irvine, Erica and her husband
spend $1,350 each month for childcare
for their 3-year-old son. They have ac-
cess to a flexible spending account
through their employer, but the $5,000
that current law allows only covers 31
percent of their annual childcare cost.
Even for those with school-age chil-
dren, the most affordable city-spon-
sored camps so parents can work dur-
ing the summer and spring break, ex-
ceed $5,000. And the cost of eldercare is
equally out of proportion to the cur-
rent $5,000 limit on the Dependent Care
Flexible Spending Account.
That is why I am introducing the bi-
partisan Family Savings for Kids and
Seniors Act. This bill will allow fami-
lies to keep more of their own pay-
checks, pretax, to use for the care for
kids, grandparents, and other family
members that they incur so that they
can work. The bill does this by adjust-
ing the limit that Americans can put
into their Dependent Care Flexible
Spending Accounts, or FSAs. Families
use this pretax benefit to help pay for
preschool, camps, adult daycare, and
childcare.
The $5,000 limit under current law
has not changed since it was enacted in
1986, but childcare costs have certainly
risen with the cost of inflation. There
is no reason why a family’s ability to
save for dependent care shouldn’t have
increased with time as well.
If my bill were in effect now, families
would be able to put $11,300 in their
flexible savings accounts. That is about
the average cost of childcare for one
child in this country.
The Family Savings for Kids and
Seniors Act offers families a way to
keep more of what they earn to pay for
the childcare and eldercare that allows
them to work. The work that parents
do adds to the vitality and the strength
of our economy.
Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues
will join me in supporting America’s
working families.
f
RECOGNIZING GRACE BIBLE
CHURCH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK) for 5
minutes.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to recognize a faith community in
Montgomery County, Pennsylvania,
that truly embodies the virtues of
kindness and charity. Grace Bible
Church in Souderton, will be hosting
its sixth annual Easter dinner, where
all members of our community are wel-
come.
Like last year, Grace Bible Church
will be offering transportation to resi-
dents of Grundy Manor in Telford and
Valley Vista in Souderton so that they
are able to participate in an evening of
food and fellowship.
Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to all of
the congregants of Grace Bible Church
for opening their doors to our neigh-
bors and for living out their Christian
faith in their actions.
I would like to particularly thank
and recognize one of the event’s orga-
nizers, Carol Doyle, for her work, along
with Pastor Dave Dunbar for his vision
and for his leadership.
RECOGNIZING ALAN HARTL IN HIS RETIREMENT
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to recognize the retirement of a
true professional and advocate in
Bucks County, Pennsylvania, after his
nearly 40 years of providing mental
health counseling and recovery serv-
ices to members of our community.
Alan Hartl will be stepping down as
the chief executive officer of the
Lenape Valley Foundation after a long
and distinguished career. A psycholo-
gist, Alan has, for decades, been a
strong advocate for those with behav-
ioral health needs.
Widely respected throughout Bucks
County and among his peers, Alan is a
member of the board of directors of
both the National Council for Behav-
ioral Health and the Pennsylvania Re-
habilitation and Community Providers
Association.
Alan’s dedication to improving the
lives of our neighbors and his deliv-
ering hope to those most in need are
truly admirable. I wish him all the best
in his new chapter, and I wish his suc-
cessor, Sharon Curran, all of the best
in her new role.
RECOGNIZING CAROLANN BEGLEY FOR HER WORK
TO PREVENT HUNGER
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to recognize an outstanding school
administrator in Montgomery County,
Pennsylvania, who was recently recog-
nized by a national nonprofit organiza-
tion for her work to prevent hunger
amongst our community students.
Carolann Begley, nutrition services
area supervisor at North Penn High
School, was named a Breakfast Hero by
the organization, No Kid Hungry.
Carolann’s work has been instru-
mental in making breakfast more ac-
cessible to students, notably through
her work to implement a breakfast
cart for the 2018–2019 school year.
Mr. Speaker, our community school
administrators and educators work
tirelessly to give our students the re-
sources they need to pursue their
goals. I applaud Carolann for her serv-
ice, and I would also like to thank
North Penn High School Principal Pete
Nicholson and the No Kid Hungry net-
work, an organization, for all of the
work that they do for our community.
f
COMMEMORATING THE FIGHTIN’
FIFTY-FIFTH
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
JACKSON LEE). The Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Nebraska (Mr. BACON)
for 5 minutes.
Mr. BACON. Madam Speaker, I rise
to commemorate the longstanding
bond our Midwest communities enjoy
with the Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth Wing, the
United States Air Force wing right
here at Offutt Air Force Base in Ne-
braska. It has units all over the world.
The 55th Wing and the 55th Wing As-
sociation will jointly celebrate a
uniquely treasured relationship at this
year’s reunion in April that will fea-
ture numerous dedications and com-
memorative events.
The Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth’s historic
lineage began before World War II.
Since 1940, the unit has distinguished
itself as a preeminent Air Force orga-
nization, flying and supporting world-
wide operations in peace and conflict.
Of note, the 55th Fighter Group con-
ducted fighter sweeps over the invasion
beaches on June 6, 1944, using their P–
38s. In 1966, the Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth
transferred to Nebraska as part of the
Strategic Air Command.
For over 50 years, the 55th Wing per-
sonnel have supported national inter-
ests around the world, focusing on pro-
viding first-class reconnaissance, real-
time intelligence, command and con-
trol, information warfare, and combat
support capabilities. It is the largest
wing in Air Combat Command and flies
the most diverse types of aircraft.
Notably, since Operation Desert
Shield and Operation Desert Storm,
the 55th Wing is the only Air Force
wing with continuous operations,
maintenance, and aircraft presence in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:56 Mar 27, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.011 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2837
March 27, 2019
the United States Central Command
theater of operations.
Indeed, the sheer longevity of this
storied unit’s history and global mis-
sion reach personifies their motto,
‘‘The Sun never sets on the Fightin’
Fifty-Fifth.’’
The unit’s exceptional record of serv-
ice was the catalyst for the 55th Wing
Association’s creation. Following dec-
ades of the Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth cama-
raderie, global deployments, and oper-
ational achievement, a handful of vet-
eran aviators were determined to pre-
serve this invaluable heritage so it
would not be lost to future genera-
tions.
This innovative initial cadre formed
the 55th Strategic Reconnaissance
Wing Association to serve alongside
the Offutt’s 55th Strategic Reconnais-
sance Wing Active-Duty force. Both or-
ganizations were eventually renamed
to today’s 55th Wing and 55th Wing As-
sociation, respectively, and have re-
mained in Nebraska ever since.
The 55th Wing Association is com-
prised of Air Force veterans who served
honorably in the Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth,
most of whom were stationed at Offutt
Air Force Base. The 55th Wing Associa-
tion’s support to their Active-Duty
counterparts is second to none, and its
support to the 55th Wing alumni is a
model for other Air Force organiza-
tions to emulate. It embodies the im-
pressive relationship between alumni
veterans and Active-Duty military
members, and they have it in their
credo, ‘‘Honoring those who served, and
serving those who do.’’ It could not be
said any better.
This bond between veteran citizens
and military personnel is nothing short
of remarkable. These organizations
demonstrate the very best of coopera-
tion to serve our national interests,
sustain organizational values, and fos-
ter military fellowship from as far
back as those who served in World War
II to those of the present who still fly,
fight, and win our Nation’s battles
right now. Their relationship will for-
ever be enshrined at the many cere-
monies in Nebraska on April 6, where
monuments will be dedicated to the
alumni of the Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth past,
present, and future.
In 2003, the 55th Wing Association
captured the inspirational essence of
their history in choosing the following
inscription on their U.S. Air Force Mu-
seum monument, and it says:
We must never forget that freedom is never
really free; it is the most costly thing in the
world. And freedom is never paid in a lump
sum; payments come due in every genera-
tion. All any of us can do is to offer the gen-
erations that follow a chance for freedom.
The 55th Wing Association also chose
these same words for inclusion on the
monuments they will dedicate this
April. They are fitting praise for the
accomplishments of the past and a
challenge to the Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth
for the future.
Just 11 days ago, Nebraska was hit
with the worst national disaster in the
history of our State and a third of
Offutt Air Force Base was damaged, in-
cluding key operations and support fa-
cilities. The Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth never
missed a beat supporting operations all
over the world. This indomitable spirit
of the Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth led the Sec-
retary of the Air Force, Heather Wil-
son, to say: ‘‘Not even Mother Nature
could defeat the 55th Wing.’’
So, after 75 years as an organiza-
tional flying wing, over a half century
based in Nebraska, and more than 25
consecutive years deployed in the Mid-
dle East for combat operations, the
Fightin’ Fifty-Fifth deserves our high-
est respect, and I am honored to salute
the 55th Wing Association for all of its
efforts to preserve its rich heritage.
f
RECOGNIZING COLONEL CRAIG
OSBORNE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. RODNEY DAVIS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to con-
gratulate Colonel Craig Osborne, a sol-
dier in my district who will be retiring
this week after 30 years of service in
the United States Army.
Colonel Osborne graduated from Illi-
nois State University in 1989 as a dis-
tinguished military graduate, and dur-
ing his time with the Army, he has par-
ticipated in a total of five combat de-
ployments: Operation Desert Shield,
Operation Desert Storm, Operation
Joint Guard, Operation Enduring Free-
dom, and Operation Iraqi Freedom.
Time and time again, Colonel
Osborne has answered the call to serve
his country. He has served at the head-
quarters of Allied Land Forces South-
eastern Europe in Turkey, as well as
the chief of staff for a combined, joint,
and interagency task force in Kabul,
Afghanistan.
b 1100
In his current position with the Na-
tional Defense University, he contrib-
utes to the education of future genera-
tions of our servicemembers.
Among his many distinctions, Colo-
nel Osborne has earned three Defense
Superior Service Medals, the Legion of
Merit, five Bronze Star Medals, three
Defense Meritorious Service Medals,
the Combat Infantryman’s Badge, and
numerous other awards.
Words cannot express how thankful I
am for Colonel Osborne’s service. He is
a great example of someone who has
dedicated his life to serving his coun-
try, and I am proud to honor him
today.
Congratulations on your retirement,
Colonel.
REMEMBERING GARY JONES
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to re-
member Gary Jones, a good friend and
dedicated police officer who passed
away earlier this month after a long
battle with cancer.
Gary and I both grew up in
Taylorville, Illinois. After graduation,
he went on to serve in the Army and in
the Army National Guard. He eventu-
ally became a police officer in our
hometown. He was proud of his job and
always loved going to schools to teach
students about the police station and
his job protecting our community.
Outside of work, Gary’s greatest
hobby was firearms. He was a gun-
smith, a proud member of the NRA, a
master firearms instructor, and my
and my wife’s concealed carry instruc-
tor. Gary loved teaching people about
the responsibility of owning firearms
and teaching people the importance of
gun safety.
I will remember Gary as a true exam-
ple of patriotism and service to our
community that we share as a home-
town. He made a tremendous impact on
the lives of many in Taylorville, and he
will truly be missed.
My prayers are with his wife, Gina;
their four children, Logan, Kaylee,
Tanner, and Dylan; and all those like
me who were blessed to know Gary
Jones.
SLOW DOWN TO PROTECT FIRST RESPONDERS
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to high-
light a dangerous, disturbing, and un-
acceptable trend in Illinois and across
the country. It is the rising number of
first responders being struck by driv-
ers.
We are not even 3 months into this
year, and 14 members of the Illinois
State Police have been struck by driv-
ers while on the road or responding to
incidents. These accidents have re-
sulted in one fatality and more than a
dozen injuries.
Our first responders put their lives
on the line every day to protect us, and
it is inexcusable to have this number of
them injured by errant and distracted
drivers. These numbers average out to
more than one trooper struck per week
and is nearly double the number of in-
cidents in all of 2018.
Even though every State has laws re-
quiring drivers to change lanes or slow
down when vehicles or emergency per-
sonnel are on the side of the road,
these tragedies keep occurring. For the
safety of our first responders, construc-
tion workers, and tow truck drivers,
please slow down, avoid distractions,
and be alert on the road to help save
lives and buck this tragic trend.
f
MOTORCYCLE COMMUNITY
PROFILING
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. WALBERG) for 5 minutes.
Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to bring awareness to the
issue of motorcycle profiling.
This week, I joined Congressman
BURGESS, my fellow co-chair of the
Congressional Motorcycle Caucus, to
introduce a resolution that encourages
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.012 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2838 March 27, 2019
greater collaboration between the mo-
torcycle community and law enforce-
ment officials to prevent instances of
profiling.
There is no doubt, motorcycles rep-
resent more than just a mode of trans-
portation to those of us who ride them.
They often signify a sense of freedom,
identity, and camaraderie. In Michi-
gan, we have thousands of local riders
and many more who come from out of
State to enjoy our Great Lakes, scenic
highways, and the great outdoors.
As an avid motorcyclist myself, I
have heard from many in the riding
community who felt that they had
been profiled by law enforcement at
least once, oftentimes solely because of
their motorcycle-related apparel.
While I certainly support actions taken
to enforce violations of the law, we
should all be concerned about profiling
of riders based on their attire and ab-
sent any wrongdoing.
To be clear, motorcyclists have a
deep appreciation for our Nation’s law
enforcement officers. We understand
the difficulties they face on a daily
basis, and we are not disparaging that
in any way. Our resolution simply
seeks to bring increased awareness and
encourage a cooperative effort to ad-
dress an issue that affects many of our
constituents in the motorcycle commu-
nity.
By having an open dialogue, I hope
we can foster a greater understanding
of the issues surrounding motorcycle
profiling and ensure our roads and
highways are safe for all to enjoy.
RECOGNIZING THE MAITLAND FAMILY
Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize Jim and Cheri
Maitland of Jackson, Michigan. The
Maitlands recently made history by be-
coming the first family to visit all 418
national parks and units. From Alaska
to the River Raisin National Battle-
field Park in Monroe, Michigan, they
have logged more than 300,000 miles
over the span of 8 years. The Maitland
children, Jamison and Gerald, each
have an impressive collection of Junior
Ranger badges from learning about all
the parks.
The family earned the nickname the
‘‘Parkbound Maitlands’’ after watching
a documentary series on America’s na-
tional parks, which then sparked a de-
sire on their part to see the beauty
across our great land.
When the Maitlands are not explor-
ing in their RV, you might find them
volunteering at River Raisin National
Battlefield Park in Monroe, Michigan.
It is a wonderful park and destination
in our community where the family
has spent more than 1,000 volunteer
hours.
Their philosophy is to leave each
park a little bit better than how they
found it.
Madam Speaker, I share the
Maitlands’ love of the outdoors and our
national park system. This is truly a
remarkable accomplishment and one
that makes me pretty jealous.
Congratulations to the Maitland fam-
ily on your incredible journey. I am
grateful for your commitment to keep-
ing our parks in pristine shape.
f
PROMISE OF AMERICA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Washington (Mrs. RODGERS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to reflect
on the promise of America.
What is the promise of America?
What has it meant for us? And what
does it mean for us today?
America has been around for a few
hundred years. That is really not that
long. In that short time, our dreams
have informed the imaginations of peo-
ple around the globe.
It all started when our Founding Fa-
thers drafted and signed the Declara-
tion of Independence. It set us on a
path for our Nation to be the greatest
experiment in self-governance that the
world has ever known. Our Founders
were our first innovators who risked it
all for America to be free.
I am sure there are times when we
have fallen short, but our experiment
has been overwhelmingly for the good.
It is here in America that we have led
and cultivated history’s greatest
breakthroughs. We fought a war to end
slavery. We liberated Europe from the
Nazis. We invented flight; put men on
the Moon; split the atom; and invented
the microchip, the internet, and more.
At great expense, all this was accom-
plished by maintaining fleets and ar-
mies for America to be a beacon of
hope for freedom-loving people around
the world. We have done more to lift
people out of poverty and raise the
standard of living than any nation in
the history of the world.
Madam Speaker, I am sure our
Founders never dreamed that any of
this would be possible, but it was be-
cause they made their vision for Amer-
ica a reality rooted in the promise that
our rights are self-evident, sacred, and
undeniable.
America was born with purpose. It
says it right here in the Declaration of
Independence. We all know the words,
or at least we should know the words:
‘‘We hold these truths to be self-evi-
dent, that all men are created equal,
that they are endowed by their Creator
with certain unalienable Rights, that
among these are Life, Liberty and the
pursuit of Happiness.’’
These are more than just words. It is
a faith statement, a distinctive na-
tional credo. The moment we fail to be-
lieve it, the experiment is over and this
Nation will fade away like all nation-
states that have lost belief in them-
selves and forgotten their identity.
If we forget our purpose and let the
promise of America be broken, then we
are lost. The future is lost.
It is our job and our highest responsi-
bility to transmit the promise of Amer-
ica to our children and to all who are
a part of this great experiment. It is
not enough that we merely assert these
as ideas. We must live them as truths
and show the world that they work.
America is where freedom has made
its greatest mark. It is where cre-
ativity is unmatched by any time in
history. It is where justice flowers
more generously than anyplace on
Earth.
The torch must be passed to the next
generation. That is what President
John F. Kennedy said, and, Madam
Speaker, we must do just that.
I will keep coming back to this floor,
to the people’s House, to make this
case that the promise of America is for
every person in our country.
There is a battle going on right now
for the heart and soul of America, so it
is worth repeating that we must never
forget our purpose. That is what unites
us as Americans, and it is where I find
hope that we can come together around
shared values that built our great Na-
tion.
I am committed more than ever to
restore trust and confidence in the
promise of America. It is a promise
that will keep us free, empower our
children in the next generation to
shine, and strengthen the moral fabric
where our identity rests.
f
CELEBRATING 140TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF 28TH INFANTRY DIVI-
SION OF U.S. ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to recog-
nize the 28th Infantry Division of the
United States Army National Guard as
it recently celebrated the anniversary
of its 140th year of serving this Nation.
Its roots in American history were
planted long before our Nation’s found-
ing. The 28th Infantry’s lineage traces
all the way back to when Benjamin
Franklin formed a militia known as
the Pennsylvania Associators. The first
meeting of the Associators occurred on
November 21, 1747. Franklin organized
units to defend the city of Philadelphia
against the French and Spanish pri-
vateers.
The 28th Infantry Division is the old-
est continuously serving division in the
United States Army. It wasn’t until
1879 when the 28th ID was officially es-
tablished by Governor Henry Hoyt and
designated a red keystone as its sym-
bol.
Throughout history, the 28th Infan-
try Division has answered our coun-
try’s call to serve in nearly every war.
The 28th ID soldiers fought side by side
in the Spanish-American War. They
earned the nickname ‘‘Iron Division’’
in the First World War by General
John Pershing after a chivalrous stand
in France. This decorated division still
goes by this storied nickname.
The infantrymen stepped ashore at
Omaha Beach and were the first Amer-
ican division to parade through Paris
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.014 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2839
March 27, 2019
after its liberation. They were also de-
ployed for duty during the Korean war.
In present day, its operations have con-
tinued in places like Bosnia, Kosovo,
Kuwait, Iraq, and Afghanistan.
I had the distinct pleasure of meeting
these members of the 28th Division last
November in Kuwait, joining them in
the mess hall for Thanksgiving dinner.
The division stationed in Kuwait was
part of Operation Spartan Shield. This
operation sought to strengthen U.S.
partnerships in the Middle East and
support ongoing operations to defeat
ISIS.
Just a few weeks ago, I got to reunite
with the 28th ID in Hershey, Pennsyl-
vania, to celebrate the 140th anniver-
sary. The dinner and ceremonies were a
fitting tribute for a historic part of the
United States military.
Madam Speaker, these men and
women continue to build upon the Iron
Division legacy. They are brave, resil-
ient, and well-trained to support each
other in combat and defend our great
Nation.
So I say to the men and women of the
28th Infantry Division: Roll on, 28th.
Roll on.
Madam Speaker, I congratulate the
28th Infantry Division for 140 years of
service, sacrifice, and valor.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 14
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. JACKSON LEE) at noon.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
God of the universe, we give You
thanks for giving us another day.
Send us Your spirit, enlighten the
hearts of the Members of this people’s
House. Uphold all of our commitments
to live according to Your revealed
truths and the constitutional law of
this great Nation.
Let freedom flourish in the lives of
Your people who seek justice and prove
themselves trustworthy.
Shape virtuous leadership in govern-
ment at every level. May all citizens
know with confidence the diligence of
their representatives, and may this
body prove creative in facing the issues
of the day.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from California (Mr.
LAMALFA) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. LAMALFA led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
ASSYRIAN NEW YEAR
(Mr. HARDER of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to wish the As-
syrian community in the Central Val-
ley and across the world a Happy New
Year.
One of my fondest memories growing
up in Turlock was spending afternoons
with my Assyrian neighbor, who was
like a grandmother to me. Her name
was Nana Bitpera.
Every day, she would pick grape
leaves in her backyard while she made
rice, so my brother and I could enjoy
fresh, homemade dolmas after school.
She would tell me stories about the
incredible contributions of the Assyr-
ian culture to art and literature: how
Assyrians built the first human cities,
were the first to domesticate crops,
and how they literally invented the
wheel.
She also told me about the centuries
of persecution that Assyrians faced
that caused so many to come for a new
future in America.
Madam Speaker, as we celebrate the
year 6769, I want to tell the Assyrian
community how grateful I am to be
their neighbor, and may this new year
bring their families joy and happiness.
f
PAYCHECK FAIRNESS
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to express my serious con-
cern with the inappropriately and
euphemistically named ‘‘Paycheck
Fairness Act.’’ In reality, this legisla-
tion should be called the ‘‘Leave No
Lawyer Behind Act.’’
I am sure everyone in this room be-
lieves that equal work deserves equal
pay. In fact, Congress passed the Equal
Pay Act in 1963 to ensure that. But
that is not what Democrats have put
this legislation on the floor for. In-
stead, they wanted something to ben-
efit trial lawyers and to make it nearly
impossible for job creators to defend
against frivolous, unlimited lawsuits.
In fact, this legislation is actually
harmful to women in the workforce by
creating a mandatory opt-out system
for class action lawsuits that will ulti-
mately limit legal options when there
actually is workplace discrimination.
This legislation is all about litiga-
tion, and that is not right. Enforce ex-
isting laws effectively. That will pro-
tect women, and everyone, in the work-
place.
The number of working women in the
U.S. is higher than ever—nearly 75 mil-
lion—with more women entering the
workforce in the last 2 years than men.
That is the type of fairness we should
continue to strive for.
I support policies that help more
women become their own boss, not un-
limited paydays for trial lawyers.
f
WOMEN’S HALL OF FAME
COMMEMORATIVE COIN
(Mr. MORELLE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MORELLE. Madam Speaker, in
honor of the final week of Women’s
History Month, I am proud to join a
group of bipartisan colleagues in intro-
ducing the National Women’s Hall of
Fame Commemorative Coin Act.
As the National Women’s Hall of
Fame celebrates its 50th anniversary,
this will help ensure the financial via-
bility and longevity of this iconic his-
torical landmark for years to come.
I am especially pleased that our very
own Louise Slaughter will be inducted
into the hall of fame this year: a fit-
ting tribute for one of the most inspir-
ing women I have had the privilege of
knowing.
Louise will take her place alongside
some of our Nation’s trailblazers in the
city that forever altered the course of
women’s rights in our Nation.
I am delighted that this legislation
will help ensure that Louise, and so
many other remarkable women in the
hall of fame, will continue to inspire
generations to come.
Madam Speaker, I look forward to
diligently working toward its passage,
and I encourage my colleagues to sup-
port this important bill.
f
SOCIAL SECURITY
APPROPRIATIONS
(Ms. WILD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. WILD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to advocate for an appropriation
request I have put forward to provide
adequate funding to the Social Secu-
rity Administration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.016 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2840 March 27, 2019
Social Security enables millions of
Americans to make ends meet, includ-
ing retired and disabled workers, and
the families of deceased workers. It is a
program that working folks have been
paying into their entire working lives.
Despite the agency’s effectiveness,
funding cuts have created a massive,
and in some cases life-threatening,
backlog.
The national average wait time for a
Social Security Disability Insurance
benefits hearing is 535 days. And last
year, Philadelphia, in my State, had
the longest average wait time in the
country: 26 months. One West Philadel-
phia woman with multiple sclerosis
waited 878 days before getting a favor-
able ruling.
Given this reality, I am truly
alarmed that, rather than fully funding
Social Security, the President’s budget
is consistently hundreds of millions of
dollars less than what Congress en-
acted the previous year.
This sums up why people are fed up
with Washington: powerful politicians
keeping everyday Americans from the
benefits they have earned. The injus-
tice needs to stop. We must stand with
working families and help them obtain
their benefits.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 7, PAYCHECK FAIRNESS
ACT, AND PROVIDING FOR CON-
SIDERATION OF H.RES. 124, OP-
POSING BAN ON TRANSGENDER
MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, by direction of the Com-
mittee on Rules, I call up House Reso-
lution 252 and ask for its immediate
consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 252
Resolved, That at any time after adoption
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the
House resolved into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 7) to amend
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to pro-
vide more effective remedies to victims of
discrimination in the payment of wages on
the basis of sex, and for other purposes. The
first reading of the bill shall be dispensed
with. All points of order against consider-
ation of the bill are waived. General debate
shall be confined to the bill and shall not ex-
ceed one hour equally divided and controlled
by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on Education and Labor.
After general debate the bill shall be consid-
ered for amendment under the five-minute
rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature
of a substitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor now printed
in the bill, it shall be in order to consider as
an original bill for the purpose of amend-
ment under the five-minute rule an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print 116-8
modified by the amendment printed in part
A of the report of the Committee on Rules
accompanying this resolution. That amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute shall be
considered as read. All points of order
against that amendment in the nature of a
substitute are waived. No amendment to
that amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be in order except those printed
in part B of the report of the Committee on
Rules. Each such amendment may be offered
only in the order printed in the report, may
be offered only by a Member designated in
the report, shall be considered as read, shall
be debatable for the time specified in the re-
port equally divided and controlled by the
proponent and an opponent, shall not be sub-
ject to amendment, and shall not be subject
to a demand for division of the question in
the House or in the Committee of the Whole.
All points of order against such amendments
are waived. At the conclusion of consider-
ation of the bill for amendment the Com-
mittee shall rise and report the bill to the
House with such amendments as may have
been adopted. Any Member may demand a
separate vote in the House on any amend-
ment adopted in the Committee of the Whole
to the bill or to the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute made in order as original
text. The previous question shall be consid-
ered as ordered on the bill and amendments
thereto to final passage without intervening
motion except one motion to recommit with
or without instructions.
SEC. 2. Upon adoption of this resolution it
shall be in order without intervention of any
point of order to consider in the House the
resolution (H. Res. 124) expressing opposition
to banning service in the Armed Forces by
openly transgender individuals. The resolu-
tion shall be considered as read. The pre-
vious question shall be considered as ordered
on the resolution and preamble to adoption
without intervening motion or demand for
division of the question except one hour of
debate equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the
Committee on Armed Services.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
WILD). The gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia is recognized for 1 hour.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, for the purpose of debate
only, I yield the customary 30 minutes
to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. BUR-
GESS), pending which I yield myself
such time as I may consume. During
consideration of this resolution, all
time yielded is for the purpose of de-
bate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members be given 5 legislative days
to revise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
b 1215
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, on Monday the Rules Com-
mittee met and reported a rule, House
Resolution 252, providing for consider-
ation of two bills: H.R. 7, the Paycheck
Fairness Act; and H. Res. 124, express-
ing opposition to banning service in
the Armed Forces by openly
transgender individuals.
The rule provides for consideration of
H.R. 7 under a structured rule. The rule
provides 1 hour of debate, equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and
ranking member of the Committee on
Education and Labor. It self-executes a
manager’s amendment. It also makes
in order nine amendments.
The rule provides for consideration of
H. Res. 124 under a closed rule, and it
provides 1 hour of debate, equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and
ranking member of the Committee on
Armed Services.
Madam Speaker, 56 years ago, Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy signed the Equal
Pay Act. He referred to this law as a
‘‘structure basic to democracy’’—equal
pay for equal work, in essence, equal-
ity. But the sad reality is that, over 56
years later, women are still paid less
than their male counterparts for the
same work. I know, because it hap-
pened to me.
One of my first jobs was in a male-
dominated industry selling steel. It
didn’t matter if I performed as well, if
not better, than my male colleagues; I
was still paid less. I had to leave that
job, which I loved, because I wasn’t
getting my fair share. It was a shame
then, and it is a shame now.
In the sixties, women made 60 cents
on the dollar. Now the average woman
makes 80 cents compared to her male
counterpart—80 cents. For women of
color, the gender wage gap is even
more severe:
For every dollar made by her non-
Hispanic White male counterpart, an
African American woman makes 61
cents, a Native American woman
makes 58 cents, and women who look
like me, Latinas, make 53 cents on the
dollar for similar work. That is less
than the average woman made in the
1960s.
Do I not work just as hard as my
male counterparts?
Do I deserve to make 53 cents on the
dollar?
Do I not have to support my house-
hold as much as a man?
Latinas lose, on the average, $28,386
every year. That amounts to more than
$1 million over her career.
What would an extra $1 million mean
for the working woman or for her chil-
dren? That she never has to chose be-
tween paying for childcare or buying
groceries or not worrying about how to
send her kids to college. Maybe she
could even fulfill the American Dream
of purchasing a home.
Some people brush this off by argu-
ing that women choose different or
easier jobs than men, like being a
teacher or a nurse. To those people, I
ask: Who sets those salaries? When was
the last time you were underpaid to
teach 40 children in a classroom set-
ting?
Nursing assistants each suffer rough-
ly three times—three times—the rate
of back and other injuries as construc-
tion workers. Are you going to tell me
that the nurse who spends 12 hours on
her feet taking care of those most in
need doesn’t deserve higher pay, or the
911 dispatcher who is working the
graveyard shift, fielding call after call
after call, coordinating an effective
emergency response so that they them-
selves can save lives or the first re-
sponders can save lives?
Don’t tell me women’s work is easier.
We need equality—in practice, not just
in law.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.019 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2841
March 27, 2019
H.R. 7, the Paycheck Fairness Act
will make equal pay a reality. It ad-
dresses the many complicated facets of
sex-based discrimination.
Even when it is crystal clear, it is in-
credibly difficult to win a lawsuit to
prove that employers are discrimi-
nating on the basis of sex. The Pay-
check Fairness Act requires employers
to demonstrate that wage disparity is
based on a bona fide factor other than
sex, such as education, training, or ex-
perience.
In workplaces where women are em-
powered to know how much they are
making compared to their male col-
leagues, the gender gap shrinks by 7
percent; however, some workplaces pe-
nalize employees for discussing their
salaries. The Paycheck Fairness Act
would prevent retaliation against em-
ployees for wage transparency.
Sex discrimination causes women to
make 6.6 percent less than equally
qualified male counterparts on their
first job. Over time, as raises and bo-
nuses are decided based on a women’s
prior salary history, this gap is made
even worse. The Paycheck Fairness Act
prevents employers from asking for a
salary history.
Another factor that contributes to
gender pay disparity is that women are
less likely to negotiate for a higher sal-
ary. Studies show that men are ex-
pected to negotiate, but when women
ask for more money, they are penalized
and still paid less. The Paycheck Fair-
ness Act creates a grant program to
fund negotiation and skills training.
Currently, employees must opt in to
class action lawsuits brought under the
Equal Pay Act, running contrary to
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. This
makes it more difficult for women to
use the courts to correct equal pay dis-
parities. The Paycheck Fairness Act
allows them to opt out, removing bar-
riers to participate in class action law-
suits and, therefore, addressing sys-
tematic gender-based inequality.
I have offered two amendments to
the Paycheck Fairness Act bill to high-
light the serious effects of the gender
pay gap on women of color.
The Paycheck Fairness Act is a step
in the right direction. Women who look
like me should not make 53 cents on
the dollar for the same work as our
White male colleagues, and even less
than the average woman made 60 years
ago. It is wrong, and it is unjust. That
is why it is crucial we pass H.R. 7, the
Paycheck Fairness Act.
Now, I would like to turn your atten-
tion to H. Res. 124, expressing opposi-
tion to banning service in the Armed
Forces by openly gay transgender indi-
viduals.
For me, this issue hits close to home.
I am a proud mother of an Air Force
veteran.
It wasn’t a decision they made light-
ly. It was one made with great personal
sacrifice, and the U.S. Government
made a promise to them that they
would be safe to be themselves.
Imagine how their mothers and fa-
thers must feel knowing that our Na-
tion has broken a promise to their chil-
dren. This doesn’t make us safer.
We should welcome every qualified
person who is willing to stand up to de-
ploy and enlist in our Armed Forces to
serve alongside people like my son.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume and thank the gentlewoman from
California (Mrs. TORRES) for yielding
me the customary 30 minutes.
Madam Speaker, today we are consid-
ering H.R. 7, the Paycheck Fairness
Act. This legislation seeks to prevent
wage discrimination on the basis of
sex, but this is already prohibited
under current law.
The Paycheck Fairness Act is a false
promise made by the majority that
would not provide the outcomes that
we all seek as Americans. This legisla-
tion will empower trial lawyers and of-
fers no new protections against pay
discrimination.
According to the Equal Pay Act of
1963, Federal law currently prohibits
all discrimination in pay or other em-
ployment practices based upon sex or
any other nonjob-performance-related
issue.
In 1964, Congress enacted comprehen-
sive antidiscrimination civil rights
protection based on race, color, na-
tional origin, religion, and sex under
title 7 of the Civil Rights Act.
Together, these laws protect against
sex discrimination and provide a range
of remedies for victims. As a result,
sex-based wage disparity is in direct
violation of not one, but two current
Federal laws.
It is important to acknowledge that
there are bad actors. A small number
of managers may practice pay dis-
crimination, but their actions are ille-
gal, and this opens their businesses to
lawsuits and to heavy fines.
I could not agree more that such dis-
crimination has no place in those busi-
nesses or in society in general. How-
ever, those who perpetuate these ille-
gal acts are the exception and not the
rule.
Congress must not ignore the posi-
tive trends our Nation has seen in the
last 26 months:
Since 2017, the Trump administration
has made significant strides in reining
in Federal overreach, improving oppor-
tunities and results for Americans in
the past 2 years;
The Tax Cut and Jobs Act has given
all Americans greater opportunity, re-
gardless of sex, leading to an improved
economy;
Unemployment is at its lowest level
in nearly half a century;
Median wages across all demographic
groups are rising faster now than at
any time in recent history.
According to a recent Wall Street
Journal article, the United States
economy added jobs for 100 consecutive
months. The current labor market is
not only benefiting the low-skilled
services, but also high-skilled workers
and those with advanced degrees.
In both low-skill and high-skill sec-
tors, there remains a short supply of
willing or qualified workers, driving up
wages for both. Across the spectrum,
all workers are benefiting from the
current economy.
Our former colleague Jack Kemp
used to describe a situation where ‘‘a
rising tide lifts all boats.’’ We may
very well be in that ‘‘rising tide’’ pe-
riod.
But despite the good news, the ma-
jority has crafted legislation that
would place a greater burden on em-
ployers and reduce the privacy of em-
ployees and increase Federal spending.
H.R. 7 does little to protect the
wages of American workers. In fact, it
makes it harder for employers to de-
fend legitimate differentials in pay.
Currently, employers may pay dif-
ferent wages due to factors other than
sex, such as education, training, or ex-
perience.
Let’s say that again. Under current
law, you must pay equal wages for
equal work. That means all other
things being equal, a woman cannot be
paid differently than a man.
When an employee brings different
qualifications to the job, such as an ad-
vanced degree or more years of experi-
ence, the factors used to evaluate em-
ployee pay are no longer equal. This
preserves the flexibility for employers
to make the best decision for their
business, including hiring the most
qualified employees, regardless of their
gender.
b 1230
H.R. 7 would now require that non-
sex reasons for any wage disparity
would have what is termed a ‘‘business
necessity.’’ Now, ‘‘business necessity,’’
this is a term that goes undefined in
the legislation. Proving a gender-based
business necessity that accounts for
the entire differential in pay is some-
times a nearly impossible standard to
defend.
Employers would no longer be able to
hire or pay employees based on quali-
fications, unless that qualification is
being one sex or the other, a standard
that is defined in very few jobs. In ad-
dition, employers would not be able to
consider market or economic factors of
their particular business sector that
might account for a wage disparity.
This change to what is called a ‘‘bona
fide factor defense’’ does not take into
account the reality of the labor mar-
ket. Employees are often willing to ac-
cept lower pay for greater control over
their work location, their schedule, or
how they aggregate their leave. Stud-
ies have shown this is particularly true
for women, but it is also true for men.
With the threat of a lawsuit hanging
over the heads of employers, they are
less likely to allow for flexibility in
the workplace. Instead of allowing em-
ployees to negotiate their own pay and
their work arrangements, employers
will be incentivized to transform jobs
that were once negotiable and flexible
into jobs where one size must fit all.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.021 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2842 March 27, 2019
H.R. 7 also limits an employer’s abil-
ity to pay its employees based on per-
formance. If a woman were to earn a
performance-based bonus or salary that
her male coworker did not receive, that
man could file a suit against the em-
ployer on the basis that the bonus is
not a business necessity, due to the
vagueness of the term in H.R. 7.
With this threat in mind, employers
may be less likely to use performance-
based pay and bonuses, despite studies
showing such pay models actually in-
crease employee pay. As approximately
40 percent of employers now use per-
formance-based compensation, this bill
and the vague definitions in this bill
could potentially lead to a stagnation
or a decrease in wages.
Under current law, employers are
prohibited from pay discrimination
whether it is intentional or not. If such
pay discrimination is intentional, em-
ployees can sue the employer in a class
action suit for up to $300,000 in compen-
satory and punitive damages.
The Paycheck Fairness Act would re-
move the threshold to this liability and
would require that workers be included
in class action lawsuits. It would re-
quire that they be included in class ac-
tion lawsuits unless they opt out, but
many people may not be aware of that
requirement that they must opt out.
Otherwise, they are automatically in-
cluded.
In addition, there are no limits on
the fees charged by trial lawyers.
There were amendments offered at the
Rules Committee hearing to do just
that, but they were not accepted as
part of this rule.
One of those amendments, in fact,
limited the compensation for litigation
attorneys to $2,000 per hour. That was
the cap placed on attorneys’ fees, $2,000
an hour. That is a phenomenal sum of
money. It was rejected by the Rules
Committee. Apparently, they felt that
their litigation attorneys were worth
more than $2,000 an hour or are re-
quired to earn more than $2,000 an hour
in order to put food on the table for
their families. It just doesn’t make
sense. There should be reasonable limi-
tations on those fees.
While legitimate claims do exist, and
I hope that all employees who have ex-
perienced discrimination seek a legal
remedy, the changes in H.R. 7 would
significantly increase the size and the
profitability of lawsuits, making un-
necessary lawsuits even more likely for
trial lawyers looking for new cash
flows.
The Paycheck Fairness Act would
also have a substantial impact on the
rights of both employers and employ-
ees. The bill would prohibit employers
from requesting information regarding
an employee’s pay history, which is
likely an unconstitutional limit on the
employer’s freedom of speech.
Furthermore, the bill reduces the
right to privacy for employers and em-
ployees as it removes any recourse
should an employee make public the
wages of other employees, even with-
out the consent of those employees or
their employer.
H.R. 7 also requires employers to pro-
vide disaggregated employee informa-
tion to the Department of Labor with-
out delineating mechanisms to keep
that information safe.
We saw just that last week with the
Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy data breach. The government is not
always the best steward of a citizen’s
private information, and we should
limit the data received by agencies
until those capabilities are improved
and verified.
Let me be clear: Wage discrimination
certainly has no place and is illegal in
the United States of America. But I be-
lieve this bill places undue and unnec-
essary restrictions on otherwise lawful
business practices and is based upon
unsubstantiated findings. Therefore, I
cannot support H.R. 7.
The path that Congress must take is
not to increase opportunities for trial
lawyers but to continue focusing on
strong economic policy that expands
opportunities for all Americans.
Last year, 2.8 million jobs were added
to the United States’ economy. Fifty-
eight percent of those jobs were taken
by women. Nearly 75 million women
are participating in the workforce
today, more than at any time in our
Nation’s history. A robust and resilient
economy will provide the jobs and wage
gains Americans expect and deserve.
Madam Speaker, I urge opposition to
the rule, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, I would like to take this op-
portunity to inform my colleague from
Texas that the women in Texas make
$0.72 to their male counterparts. I
think Texas women deserve to have
equal pay.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE).
Mr. CICILLINE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of H.R. 7, the Paycheck Fairness
Act, long overdue legislation to close
the gender wage gap and ensure equal
pay for equal work.
Too many Americans are not making
enough to make ends meet, living pay-
check to paycheck. We need to focus on
strategies to raise family incomes.
H.R. 7 does just that.
H.R. 7 would limit pay secrecy, ex-
pand pay data collection, and create
more employer accountability for pay
differences. This legislation will build
upon and improve the work of Presi-
dent Kennedy, who signed the Equal
Pay Act, and President Obama, who
signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay
Act.
Despite the progress we have made
over the last 50 years, women are still
earning less than their male counter-
parts across age, race, and socio-
economic groups. This stubborn wage
gap, often exacerbated by employer-im-
posed pay secrecy policies, makes it
clear that we must be intentional in
our efforts to address persistent pay
disparity.
On average, women working full time
lose a combined total of more than $900
billion every year due to the wage gap.
If the annual gender gap were closed, a
working woman would have enough
money for an additional 13 months of
childcare, a year of college tuition,
more than 1 year’s worth of food, or an
additional 10 months of rent.
Equal pay is not simply a women’s
issue. It is a family issue. When women
bring home less money each day, it
means they have less to take care of
their family, including for groceries,
rent, childcare, and healthcare.
Opponents of this legislation argue—
we just heard it—that this is a gift to
attorneys representing employees and
that their fees should be severely lim-
ited. Remember, rights are easily dis-
regarded and violated if you don’t have
the ability to enforce those rights.
This argument made by opponents is
simply an attempt to avoid talking
about the pervasiveness of wage dis-
crimination. It is an attempt to de-
crease enforcement of the Fair Labor
Standards Act and to lessen the pen-
alties for employers who engage in dis-
criminatory practices. If nothing else,
we should call it out for what it is.
We know that when women succeed,
our country thrives. The Paycheck
Fairness Act will take us forward to
ensuring economic security for work-
ing women.
I want to end by acknowledging the
extraordinary leadership of ROSA
DELAURO, the Congresswoman from
Connecticut who has spent so much of
her life dedicated to this issue.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 7.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself 2 minutes.
In almost every election cycle in
which I have participated since 2002,
people on the Democratic side of the
aisle have talked about wanting to re-
build the middle class. I will submit to
you, over the last 26 months, this ad-
ministration, this President, has re-
built the middle class.
Let me just quote to you from an ar-
ticle in The Wall Street Journal from
March 1 of this year, a very recent arti-
cle. ‘‘All sorts of people who have pre-
viously had trouble landing a job are
now finding work. Racial minorities,
those with less education, and people
working in the lowest-paying jobs are
getting bigger pay raises and, in many
cases, experiencing the lowest unem-
ployment rate ever recorded for their
groups.’’
Continuing to quote here: ‘‘They are
joining manufacturing workers, women
in their prime working years, Ameri-
cans with disabilities, and those with
criminal records, among others, in
finding improved job prospects after
years of disappointment.’’
It is incongruous to me that we
would want to roll-back those gains
that this administration has made in
the last 26 months.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.023 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2843
March 27, 2019
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from California (Mrs.
TRAHAN).
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise to offer my strong support for the
rule and for H. Res. 124. We should ap-
prove both and send a powerful mes-
sage that Congress will not tolerate
such a cruel and self-defeating policy.
Last month, the Armed Services
Committee’s Military Personnel Sub-
committee held a hearing that was the
first of its kind. The chairwoman, my
colleague from California, invited
transgender servicemembers to testify.
We heard from an impressive panel of
five dedicated servicemembers. They
asked for nothing more than to be per-
mitted to continue to serve their Na-
tion honorably.
Before the hearing, I met Staff Ser-
geant Patricia King. Patricia grew up
on Cape Cod. She is a combat-tested
and decorated infantry soldier who has
served nobly for over 20 years in the
Army. Her life was turned upside down
by a tweet nearly 2 years ago, one that
put her military career in jeopardy.
We should never treat our service-
members so callously. But if Patricia’s
story isn’t sufficiently convincing, con-
sider how shortsighted this ban is as
well.
The DOD’s total cost for transition-
related care in fiscal year 2017 was $2.2
million, which is one-tenth of 1 percent
of DOD’s annual healthcare budget for
the Active component. Yet the cost to
train a single fifth-generation fighter
pilot is $11 million. The retraining cost
of losing just one transgender military
pilot would be five times more than the
entire transition-related care for the
military for a year.
Meanwhile, the Army missed its re-
cruitment goal for the first time in
more than a decade last year. Now is
certainly not the time to turn away
well-qualified and patriotic soldiers.
Let’s approve the rule and the resolu-
tion and say ‘‘no’’ to discrimination.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Florida (Ms. FRANKEL).
Ms. FRANKEL. Madam Speaker, this
is a great day in America. I am so
proud to say that as the Congress con-
siders these bills that protect and ad-
vance human rights.
I rise today, specifically, to talk
about the Paycheck Fairness Act, be-
cause men and women should be able to
be paid the same for doing the same
work.
I thank my colleagues, ROSA
DELAURO and the committee chairman,
BOBBY SCOTT, for their advancement of
this great legislation.
Madam Speaker, I want to tell you a
story, the story of a young lawyer who
worked in the public defender’s office.
Her job was to represent people accused
of crimes like murder and robbery. She
was a free lawyer for them. It was very
high pressure, and it was very grueling,
but she loved it.
When she got the job, she was told a
rule: Nobody talks about salary in this
office.
But one day, she found out that a
male colleague was doing the same job,
and he had similar credentials, but he
made much more money. She was mak-
ing $18,000 a year. He was making
$20,000.
When she asked her boss why, she
was told that he, the male attorney,
had a wife and children to take care of.
Madam Speaker, that was me. That
happened to me 40 years ago.
b 1245
It was then and still today is a very
common experience to millions of
women who are still earning 80 cents
on the dollar that men make, and actu-
ally much less for women of color. It
still makes me angry to think about
my own experience, but I am not com-
plaining about my own life journey.
Fortunately, I have a job now that
pays me the same as my male col-
leagues. I am so happy I am in a posi-
tion to do something about this today.
As a result of lower lifetime earnings
and different work patterns, women are
hit hard in retirement.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
JACKSON LEE). The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, I yield the gentlewoman from
Florida an additional 30 seconds.
Ms. FRANKEL. I am too excited,
Madam Speaker.
This is why so many women end up in
poverty. I want to just say this over
and over: women go to work for the
same reason men go to work, and that
is to take care of their families. Re-
gardless of the circumstance’s agenda,
we deserve to be paid equally. This
Paycheck Fairness Act is going to
allow workers to talk openly about
their pay. It is going to prohibit asking
about salary histories. It is going to re-
quire bosses to prove disparities exist
for discrimination.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill because
when women succeed, America suc-
ceeds.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself 1 minute.
Madam Speaker, I would just like to
remind the Speaker and colleagues in
the House that when the President
came and delivered his State of the
Union message, he was significantly
proud of the fact that right now more
women are working in the workforce
than any time in our country’s history.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, having more women enter the
workforce does not mean that women
are earning equal pay for equal work.
Madam Speaker, I yield 21⁄2 minutes
to the gentlewoman from New York
(Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY).
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong
support of the rule and the underlying
bill, and I particularly thank my col-
league, ROSA DELAURO, for decades of
work in support of H.R. 7.
In 1963, Congress passed the Equal
Pay for Equal Work Act prohibiting an
employer from paying men and women
different wages for the same work. It
helped, but 56 years later, the typical
woman working full-time year-round is
still paid only 80 cents for every dollar
paid to her male coworker. That
amounts to more than $10,000 each
year.
The gap is even worse for women of
color. African American women make
only 61 percent of a White man’s earn-
ings. Native American women make
just 58 percent, and Latina women a
mere 53 percent.
But let’s be clear. Pay discrimination
doesn’t just hurt women. It hurts en-
tire families and the overall economy.
Women are the sole or primary bread-
winners in half of U.S. households with
children. So passing this bill would not
just help women and families, it would
help our entire economy. According to
some estimates, equal pay could cut
poverty among working women and
their families by more than half and
add over half a trillion dollars to the
U.S. economy.
The Paycheck Fairness Act is simple
and straightforward. It protects all em-
ployees’ right to free speech by ending
the unfair prohibitions that can make
it a firing offense for someone to sim-
ply tell a coworker how much they
make. It strengthens workers’ ability
to challenge gender-based wage dis-
crimination.
It is long overdue, and it is fair.
When women succeed, America suc-
ceeds, and our overall economy suc-
ceeds.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, may
I inquire as to how much time remains
on my side?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Texas has 171⁄2 minutes re-
maining. The gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia has 11 minutes remaining.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself 3 minutes.
Madam Speaker, I appreciate Con-
gresswoman MALONEY, the previous
speaker’s, comments. She and I served
on the Joint Economic Committee to-
gether back in 2010. The country just
lost a very wise economist, Alan
Krueger. I remember Alan Krueger
coming in and testifying to our Joint
Economic Committee; he testified
about—of course, at the time in 2010,
the description was that we were in a
low-pressure labor market. He con-
trasted that with the high-pressure
labor market of the 1960s. I don’t recall
if there were specific suggestions how
to move from that low-pressure labor
market back to a high-pressure labor
market, but I don’t think there can be
any misunderstanding that we are back
in a high-pressure labor market. That
is a good thing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.024 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2844 March 27, 2019
I quoted a few minutes ago from an
article in The Wall Street Journal. Let
me just read a little deeper from that
article:
One face of the red-hot job market is Cas-
sandra Eaton, 23, a high school graduate who
was making $8.25 an hour at a daycare center
near Biloxi, Mississippi, just a few months
ago. Now she earns $19.80—that is almost $20
an hour—as an apprentice at a shipyard in
nearby Pascagoula.
The article continues:
‘‘It’s amazing that I am getting paid
almost $20 an hour to learn how to
weld, says Ms. Eaton, the single moth-
er of a young daughter. When she fin-
ishes the 2-year apprenticeship, her
wage will rise to more than $27 per
hour.’’
Madam Speaker, such is the strength
of a high-pressure labor market, and I
include this article from The Wall
Street Journal in the RECORD.
[From the Wall Street Journal, Mar. 1, 2019]
INSIDE THE HOTTEST JOB MARKET IN HALF A
CENTURY
A LOOK AT WHO’S GETTING AHEAD, WHO COULD
BE LEFT BEHIND AND HOW LONG THE BOOM
CAN LAST
(By Erie Morath and Lauren Weber)
The job market doesn’t get much better
than this. The U.S. economy has added jobs
for 100 consecutive months. Unemployment
recently touched its lowest level in 49 years.
Workers are so scarce that, in many parts of
the country, low-skill jobs are being handed
out to pretty much anyone willing to take
them—and high-skilled workers are in even
shorter supply.
All sorts of people who have previously had
trouble landing a job are now finding work.
Racial minorities, those with less education
and people working in the lowest-paying jobs
are getting bigger pay raises and, in many
cases, experiencing the lowest unemploy-
ment rate ever recorded for their groups.
They are joining manufacturing workers,
women in their prime working years, Ameri-
cans with disabilities and those with crimi-
nal records, among others, in finding im-
proved job prospects after years of dis-
appointment.
There are still fault lines. Jobs are still
scarce for people living in rural areas of the
country. Regions that rely on industries like
coal mining or textiles are still struggling.
And the tight labor market of the moment
may be masking some fundamental shifts in
the way we work that will hurt the job pros-
pects of many people later on, especially
those who lack advanced degrees and skills.
But for now, at least, many U.S. workers
are catching up after years of slow growth
and underwhelming wage gains.
One face of the red-hot job market is Cas-
sandra Eaton, 23, a high-school graduate who
was making $8.25 an hour at a daycare center
near Biloxi, Miss., just a few months ago.
Now she earns $19.80 an hour as an appren-
tice at a Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.
shipyard in nearby Pascagoula, where she is
learning to weld warships.
The unemployment rate in Mississippi,
where Huntington employs 11,500 people, has
been below 5 percent since September 2017.
Prior to that month, the rate had never been
below 5 percent on records dating back to
the mid-1970s. In other parts of the country,
the rate is even lower. In Iowa and New
Hampshire, the December jobless rate was 2.4
percent, tied for the lowest in the country.
That’s helped shift power toward job seekers
and caused employers to expand their job
searches and become more willing to train
applicants that don’t meet all qualifications.
‘‘It’s amazing that I’m getting paid almost
$20 an hour to learn how to weld,’’ says Ms.
Eaton, the single mother of a young daugh-
ter. When she finishes the two-year appren-
ticeship, her wage will rise to more than $27
per hour.
It’s no surprise to economists that many
people who were previously left behind are
now able to catch up. It’s something policy-
makers have been working toward for years.
Obama administration economists debated
how to sustain an unemployment below 5
percent. Now Trump administration officials
are considering how to pull those not look-
ing for jobs back into the labor force.
‘‘If you can hold unemployment at a low
level for a long time there are substantial
benefits,’’ Janet Yellen, the former chair-
woman of the Federal Reserve, said in an
interview. ‘‘Real wage growth will be faster
in a tight labor market. So disadvantaged
workers gain on the employment and the
wage side, and to my mind, that’s clearly a
good thing.’’
This was one of Ms. Yellen’s hopes when
she was running the Fed from 2014 to 2018;
keep interest rates low and let the economy
run strong enough to keep driving hiring. In
the process, the theory went, disadvantaged
workers could be drawn from the fringes of
the economy. With luck, inflation wouldn’t
take off in the process. Her successor, Je-
rome Powell, has generally followed the
strategy, moving cautiously on rates.
‘‘This is a good time to be patient,’’ Mr.
Powell told members of Congress Tuesday.
The plan seems to be paying big dividends
now, but will it yield long-term results for
American workers?
Two risks loom. The first is that the low-
skill workers who benefit most from a high-
pressure job market are often hit hardest
when the job market turns south. Consider
what happened to high-school dropouts a lit-
tle more than a decade ago. Their unemploy-
ment rate dropped below 6% in 2006 near the
end of a historic housing boom, then shot up
to more than 15% when the economy crum-
bled. Many construction, manufacturing and
retail jobs disappeared.
The unemployment rate for high-school
dropouts fell to 5 percent last year. In the
past year, median weekly wages for the
group rose more than 6 percent, outpacing
all other groups. But if the economy turns
toward recession, such improvement could
again reverse quickly. ‘‘The periods of high
unemployment are really terrible,’’ Ms.
Yellen said.
The second risk is that this opportune mo-
ment in a long business cycle might be
masking long-running trends that still dis-
advantage many workers. A long line of aca-
demic research shows that automation and
competition from overseas threaten the
work of manufacturing workers and others
in mid-skill jobs, such as clerical work, that
can be replaced by machines or low-cost
workers elsewhere.
The number of receptionists in America, at
1.015 million in 2017, was 86,000 less than a
decade earlier, according to the Labor De-
partment. Their annual wage, at $29,640, was
down 5 percent when adjusted for inflation.
Tougher trade deals being pushed by the
Trump Administration might help to claw
some manufacturing jobs back, but econo-
mists note that automation has many of the
same effects on jobs in manufacturing and
the service section as globalization, replac-
ing tasks that tend to be repeated over and
over again.
Andrew McAfee, co-director of the MIT Ini-
tiative on the Digital Economy, said the
next recession could be the moment when
businesses deploy artificial intelligence, ma-
chine learning and other emerging tech-
nologies in new ways that further threaten
mid-skill work.
‘‘Recessions are a prime opportunity for
companies to reexamine what they’re doing,
trim headcount and search for ways to auto-
mate,’’ he said. ‘‘The pressure to do that is
less when a long, long expansion is going
on.’’
With these forces in play, many econo-
mists predict a barbell job market will take
hold, playing to the favor of low- and high-
skill workers and still disadvantaging many
in the middle.
The U.S. is adding jobs in low-skilled serv-
ices sectors. Four of the six occupations the
Labor Department expects to add the most
jobs through 2026 require, at most, a high-
school diploma. Personal-care aide, a job
that pays about $11 an hour to help the elder-
ly and disabled, is projected to add 778,000
jobs in the decade ended in 2026, the most of
819 occupations tracked. The department ex-
pects the economy to add more than half a
million food-prep workers and more than a
quarter million janitors.
Those low-skill workers are reaping pay
gains in part because there aren’t a lot of
people eager to fill low-skill jobs anymore.
Only about 6 percent of U.S. workers don’t
hold a high school diploma, down from above
40 percent in the 1960s, according research by
MIT economist David Autor.
James O. Wilson dropped out of high school
in the 10th grade and started selling drugs,
which eventually led to a lengthy incarcer-
ation. When Mr. Wilson, 59, was released in
2013 he sought out training at Goodwill,
where he learned to drive a forklift. Those
skills led him to a part-time job at a FedEx
Corp. facility at an Indianapolis airport. He
was promoted to a full-time job in 2017 and is
now earning more than $16 an hour. He has a
house with his wife and enjoys taking care of
his cars, including a prized Cadillac.
‘‘I wanted to show FedEx you can take a
person, and he can change,’’ he said. ‘‘I want
FedEx to say, ‘Do you have any more people
like him?‘ ’’
Skilled workers in high-tech and manage-
rial positions are also benefiting from the
high-pressure labor market, particularly in
thriving cities. Of 166 sectors that employ at
least 100,000 Americans, software publishing
pays the highest average wages, $59.81 an
hour in the fourth quarter of 2018. Wages in
the field grew 5.5 percent from a year earlier,
well outpacing 3.3 percent overall growth in
hourly pay. The average full-time employee
in the sector already earns more than
$100,000 a year.
Other technical industries, scientific re-
search and computer systems design, were
also among the five best paying fields. Some
of the hottest labor markets in the U.S.—in-
cluding Austin, Texas; San Jose, Calif.; and
Seattle—have more than twice the con-
centration of technical jobs as the country
on average.
A Wall Street Journal analysis of Moody’s
Analytics data found Austin to be the hot-
test labor market in the country among
large metros. It ranked second in job growth,
third for share of adults working and had the
sixth-lowest unemployment rate last year,
among 53 regions with a population of more
than a million. San Jose, the second-hottest
labor market, had the lowest average unem-
ployment rate last year and the second-best
wage growth.
While a strong economy is conveying bene-
fits to a broad swath of Americans, those in
rural areas aren’t experiencing the same lift
from the rising tide.
In metro areas with fewer than 100,000 peo-
ple and in rural America, the average unem-
ployment last year was half a percentage
point higher compared to metro areas with
more than a million people, according to an
analysis by job search site Indeed.com.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.026 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2845
March 27, 2019
‘‘Finding work can be challenging for rural
job-seekers because rural workers and em-
ployers both have fewer options,’’ said In-
deed economist Jed Kolko. ‘‘Many rural
areas have slow-growing or shrinking popu-
lations.’’
Bradley Cox lives in Vevay, Ind., a rural
community of fewer than 2,000 people. The
23-year-old graduated with a bachelor’s de-
gree in business administration and liberal
arts from Indiana University East in Decem-
ber, but said he had found opportunities lim-
ited in his region.
After years working in hourly positions at
a casino, he took a job last summer as a
cashier at a CVS Health Corp. drug store,
making about $12 an hour. He hoped to work
at a bank, or perhaps in a traveling sales
role, making use of his business degree. ‘‘But
to be honest, for me to do that, I would have
to move to one of the cities or commute to
one of the cities, at least,’’ he says. ‘‘I don’t
have the opportunity around where I live.’’
Other workers are employed—but need to
string together two or more jobs to make
ends meet.
Michelle Blandy, 48, had a full-time digital
marketing job in Phoenix but hasn’t been
able to find steady work since moving to
Harrisburg, Pa., to be closer to her family.
Instead she’s pieced together some freelance
projects, occasionally drives for Lyft and
sells refurbished jewelry boxes on Etsy. ‘‘I
have applied for full-time jobs, I just didn’t
have any luck,’’ she said. ‘‘Harrisburg is tiny
compared to Phoenix. There’s not as many
tech companies or big companies here that
are hiring.’’
The good news is this long run of low un-
employment could last for a while. Economic
theory holds that when unemployment is
very low, it stirs inflation, which causes the
Federal Reserve to raise short-term interest
rates and short-circuit growth and hiring.
That kind of cycle ended the 1960s period of
low unemployment, but inflation in this pe-
riod remains below the Fed’s target of 2 per-
cent.
That has allowed the Fed to keep rates
low. By January 1970, when the unemploy-
ment rate was 3.9 percent, the Fed had raised
its target short-term interest rate to more
than 8 percent to fight inflation. By con-
trast, when the jobless rate fell below 4 per-
cent last year, the Fed kept its target rate
below 2.5 percent thanks to low inflation.
‘‘It may turn out that lower unemploy-
ment proves to be more sustainable than it
was in the 1960s,’’ says Ms. Yellen. ‘‘I think
we don’t know yet.’’
Mr. BURGESS. Again, I would point
out that since the inauguration of Don-
ald Trump, our labor market has, in
fact, experienced a resurgence that a
rising tide is indeed lifting all boats. It
is incumbent upon us not to damage
the economy that has brought the ben-
efit to so many people—so many of
those forgotten Americans—who were
denied that benefit before, those very
Americans to whom President Trump
committed at the time of his inaugura-
tion in January 2017.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, I have no additional speakers,
and I reserve the balance of my time to
close.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, if the previous ques-
tion is defeated, I will offer an amend-
ment to the resolution.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent to insert the text of my
amendment in the RECORD, along with
extraneous material, immediately
prior to the vote on the previous ques-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO) to explain
the amendment.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I
thank my good friend from Texas, Rep-
resentative BURGESS, for yielding me
time on this most important issue.
First, I would like to talk about the
underlying bill. Equal work does de-
serve equal pay, regardless of the sex of
the employee. In America, this is al-
ready the law of the land, and it has
been since 1963 when Congress passed
the Equal Pay Act. However, we stand
here today debating a rule for a par-
tisan Democrat bill that offers no pro-
tections against pay discrimination in
the workplace. Instead, the bill makes
it easier for trial lawyers to score un-
limited paydays while dragging work-
ing women through never-ending legal
dramas.
This bill also prevents women from
utilizing their expertise, skills, talents,
and education to their advantage. It ef-
fectively ties employers’ hands from
considering factors that would allow
them to potentially give employees
better working environments or for
employees to negotiate a higher salary.
According to Camille Olson, who tes-
tified as a witness in the House Sub-
committee on Civil Rights and Human
Services and on the House Sub-
committee on Workforce Protections,
there can indeed be unintended nega-
tive consequences from this bill.
Let me read an example from her
written testimony. This is her state-
ment, and she gave an example.
It basically says: In this example an
employer has chosen to pay a higher
salary to a female law firm office ad-
ministrator who has a J.D. degree. The
job duties for that position do not in-
clude legal work. Nevertheless, in the
employer’s judgment, the performance
of those job duties will be enhanced by
the additional qualifications of a J.D.,
justifying the higher salary.
In this example, the male employee
had a lesser degree. So in this exam-
ple—because in this bill it requires
business necessity—the male could sue.
Even though he doesn’t have as high a
degree as the woman, he could say: I
want equal pay.
So, what I am trying to say is be-
cause of the wording of this bill, I be-
lieve—and the witness in the commit-
tees believes—there are unintended
consequences that could actually hurt
women.
The employee may have a claim even
if the advanced degree does actually
improve performance or serve another
legitimate business goal where it was
not absolutely required for the job, be-
cause of the business necessity require-
ment in the bill.
This example may not be the excep-
tion. As our economy and culture
shifts, we are finding ourselves in a
world where women are attending and
graduating college far more often than
men. According to the U.S. Depart-
ment of Education data, nearly 60 per-
cent of those who graduated with a
bachelor’s degree were women. So, cer-
tainly, we do not want the unintended
consequences of an employer not being
able to consider the advanced edu-
cation of a woman under this business
necessity language in the bill.
H.R. 7 is more of the same from the
new majority: government knows best.
It will tie the hands of employers and
prevent employees—especially female
employees—from negotiating a salary
and working environment that works
for them and their family. It is already
against the law to discriminate, and
commonsense approaches to amending
the law were summarily rejected by my
colleagues from the other side of the
aisle.
Madam Speaker, if the previous ques-
tion is defeated, we would amend this
rule to include a simple change. It pro-
vides working parents more flexibility
so that they can go to baseball games
and science fairs; in other words, to be
better parents.
I would like to read a portion of that
amendment:
Notwithstanding the other provisions of
the subsection, an employee and an employer
may voluntarily negotiate compensation and
benefits to provide flexibility to best meet
the needs of such employee and employer
consistent with other provisions of this act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Arizona.
Mrs. LESKO. We all know that the
greatest benefit working parents with
young children want and value is flexi-
bility. Our concern is that this radical
proposal which is called paycheck fair-
ness would actually limit the flexi-
bility employers can give to working
parents, so parents can go to their ac-
tivities.
This amendment is a very simple
amendment. It simply restates the law
and makes it clear that if you run a
dry cleaner with five people in it, you
don’t have to hire a lawyer to define a
job for an employee with a child in
such a way that the employee can go to
the science fair or a baseball game.
Instead of being about more litiga-
tion and trial lawyers, it is about giv-
ing more flexibility for working par-
ents. Working Americans should have
the freedom to choose what is best for
them and their families, not the Fed-
eral Government. Hardworking men
and women need more flexibility to
balance work, life, and family. This
amendment seeks to provide additional
relief in this area.
Madam Speaker, I urge ‘‘no’’ on the
previous question and ‘‘no’’ on the un-
derlying measure.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:23 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.008 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2846 March 27, 2019
b 1300
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, while this resolu-
tion attempts to increase protections
against wage discrimination based on
sex, it does not significantly improve
what already exists in current law.
I agree with my Democratic friends
that there should be no tolerance for
wage discrimination based on sex or for
any other factor protected under the
Equal Pay or Civil Rights Act, but this
bill is not the way to do so.
So, Madam Speaker, as we conclude,
I urge a ‘‘no’’ on the previous question,
‘‘no’’ on the underlying measure, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
The smart and innovative women of
Arizona’s Eighth Congressional Dis-
trict deserve to have a voice in this de-
bate, and I am going to give it to them.
They earn 80 cents to every dollar
that their male counterpart earns.
They deserve to have fair wages for the
equal work that they are performing.
Before I begin my closing statement,
I would like to take a moment to honor
a valuable member of my staff: Justin
Vogt.
Justin has been my legislative direc-
tor for 2 years. During that time, he
has been a phenomenal member of my
team, designing innovative legislative
initiatives, providing wise counsel, and
serving as a generous mentor to my
junior staff.
Now he will move on to be an excel-
lent staff director for the Economic
Opportunity Subcommittee of the Vet-
erans’ Affairs Committee. We are sad
to see our waffle maker, Justin, leave
our office, but we are so proud of all
that he has accomplished.
Madam Speaker, 60 years from now, I
hope that we have moved forward as a
Nation. I hope that our daughters and
granddaughters grow up in an America
that recognizes their value through the
quality of their work and not their
gender. Imagine that.
The Paycheck Fairness Act gets us
closer to securing a future for them.
A recent McKinsey study found that,
if women’s full potential in the labor
market was reached, $4.3 trillion would
be added to the labor market in 2025.
Our economy would benefit from that
woman power.
There has been enough talk about
lawyer fees. Women attorneys deserve
equal pay for equal work, too. This ar-
gument is nothing more than an at-
tempt to avoid talking about the per-
vasiveness of wage discrimination in
this country.
The policies in the Paycheck Fair-
ness Act work. Just look at California.
In 2017, Californian women made a me-
dian of 89 cents to every dollar made by
their male counterparts.
In just a few years, we decreased gen-
der pay disparity by more than any
other State.
I have heard it said that addressing
wage equity is bad for moms. What is
bad about getting fair pay? Equal pay
for equal work.
Mothers make 71 cents for every dol-
lar earned by fathers in similar jobs. If
we paid women fairly, maybe they
would get a chance to spend more time
with their kids.
If my colleagues care about moms
spending time with their kids, let’s
pass National Paid Family Leave Act
standards. Let’s create better working
conditions for pregnant women. Let’s
fund programs for affordable childcare.
This is just the beginning. The cost
for American women, their families,
and our economy is much too high to
wait any longer.
Madam Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote
on the rule and a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the
previous question.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. BURGESS is as follows:
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 3. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this resolution, the amendment print-
ed in section 4 shall be in order as though
printed as the last amendment in part B of
the report of the Committee on Rules accom-
panying this resolution if offered by Rep-
resentative Lesko of Arizona or a designee.
That amendment shall be debatable for 10
minutes equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent.
SEC. 4. The amendment referred to in sec-
tion 3 is as follows: after section 3 insert the
following:
SEC. 3A. FLEXIBILITY FOR WORKING PARENTS.
Section 6(d) of the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(d)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through
(4) as paragraphs (3) through (5), respec-
tively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) Notwithstanding the other provisions
of this subsection, an employee and an em-
ployer may voluntarily negotiate compensa-
tion and benefits to provide flexibility to
best meet the needs of such employee and
employer, consistent with other provisions
of this Act.’’
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Speaker, I yield back the balance of
my time, and I move the previous ques-
tion on the resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of adoption of the resolution.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 231, nays
192, not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 130]
YEAS—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—192
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:41 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.029 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2847
March 27, 2019
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—8
Amodei
DesJarlais
Granger
Meng
Serrano
Torres Small
(NM)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
b 1331
Messrs. SMITH of Nebraska, STIV-
ERS, MCCAUL, JOHN W. ROSE of Ten-
nessee, and Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the adoption of the reso-
lution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 232, nays
190, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 131]
YEAS—232
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—190
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—9
DesJarlais
Granger
Himes
Hollingsworth
Johnson (LA)
Kinzinger
Torres Small
(NM)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
b 1340
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. HIMES. Madam Speaker, on March 27,
2019, I was unable to be present for the vote
on the motion to agree to H. Res. 252, offered
by Rep. TORRES of California. Had I been
present for rollcall No. 131, I would have voted
‘‘yea.’’
Stated against:
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Madam Speak-
er, I was unavoidably detained. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 131.
Mr. KINZINGER. Madam Speaker, earlier
today I was not present to cast a vote on the
Combined Rule. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 131.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I was not
present for Roll Call Vote No. 130 on ordering
the previous question of H. Res. 252 and Roll
Call No. 131 on adoption of the rule, H. Res.
252. Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 130 and No 131.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. GOODEN. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, a bill which has the full
support of the Republican Conference
and the majority of the American peo-
ple, as it would save the lives of
liveborn infants that have survived
late-term abortions, and ask for its im-
mediate consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.003 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2848 March 27, 2019
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRIES
Mr. GOODEN. Madam Speaker, par-
liamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. GOODEN. Madam Speaker, it is
my understanding that the Republican
Conference is in full agreement. Is the
Democratic conference not onboard
with saving lives?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As indi-
cated, a unanimous consent request for
the consideration of that measure
would have to have received clearance
ahead of time by the majority and mi-
nority floor and committee leader-
ships.
The Chair is unaware of such clear-
ance; therefore, the Chair cannot en-
tertain the request at this time.
Mr. GOODEN. Madam Speaker, par-
liamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. GOODEN. Madam Speaker, I
would ask that we schedule a vote im-
mediately. The Republican Conference
is fully onboard, and I would encourage
the Democrats to join us in protecting
the infant lives that are born.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not stating a proper par-
liamentary inquiry. The gentleman is
not recognized.
f
PAYCHECK FAIRNESS ACT
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks and insert extraneous
material on H.R. 7, the Paycheck Fair-
ness Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Virginia?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 252 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 7.
The Chair appoints the gentlewoman
from the District of Columbia (Ms.
NORTON) to preside over the Committee
of the Whole.
b 1345
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 7) to
amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 to provide more effective remedies
to victims of discrimination in the
payment of wages on the basis of sex,
and for other purposes, with Ms. NOR-
TON in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
SCOTT) and the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX) each will
control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Virginia.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, I thank the gentle-
woman from Connecticut for her dec-
ades of leadership fighting for working
women.
In 1963, the Equal Pay Act codified
the right to ‘‘equal pay for equal work
regardless of sex.’’ In fact, the Equal
Pay Act was enacted 1 year prior to the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 that, for the
first time, provided for the enforce-
ment of antidiscrimination laws. Over
the past 55 years, the Equal Pay Act, in
combination with title VII of the Civil
Rights Act, has produced substantial
progress toward addressing inequities
for women in the workplace.
Yet, loopholes and insufficient en-
forcement have allowed gender-based
wage discrimination to persist. Today,
women earn, on average, 80 cents on
the dollar compared to White men in
similar jobs. The wage gap is even
worse for women of color. It exists in
every sector, regardless of education,
experience, occupation, industry, or job
title.
Drawn out over a lifetime, the per-
sistent wage gap could cost a woman
anywhere from $400,000 to $2 million.
For many, this is the difference be-
tween financial stability and poverty.
In fact, we know that achieving pay eq-
uity would actually cut the poverty
rate for working women more than 50
percent.
That is why we are considering this
historic legislation today. After dec-
ades of failing to address persistent
wage inequity, the Paycheck Fairness
Act is our opportunity to strengthen
the Equal Pay Act, bolster the rights
of working women, lift families out of
poverty, and, finally, align our rem-
edies for gender discrimination with
other established antidiscrimination
laws by eliminating caps on damages
when employers act with malice or
reckless indifference, consistent with
the laws governing discrimination
based on race or national origin, treat-
ing attorney fees consistent with title
VII of the Civil Rights Act, and re-
stricting an employer’s inquiry and re-
liance on a prospective employee’s pre-
vious salary. This is consistent with
the Americans with Disabilities Act,
the Genetic Information Non-
discrimination Act, and similar re-
strictions regarding an applicant’s
marital or pregnancy status.
As chair of the House Committee on
Education and Labor, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in casting a vote for
final passage of the Paycheck Fairness
Act and making equal pay for equal
work a reality for working women
across this country.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, my friend, the chair-
man, is a diligent and thoughtful col-
league, and I believe his heart is in the
right place.
Everyone in this House is in agree-
ment that pay discrimination on the
basis of sex is wrong, no matter how
you look at it. The law is very clear
about this. But this bill doesn’t do any-
thing to help working women. This is a
bill for trial lawyers, plain and simple.
That is what shows a fundamental dif-
ference in outlook and principle.
Democrats want women to sue their
bosses; Republicans want women to be-
come the bosses.
Republicans have favored strong eco-
nomic policies that will empower and
enable women to keep driving the
economy forward and build the lives
they want for themselves. Instead of
looking for ways to line the pockets of
trial lawyers, we stand with working
women.
I am proud, Madam Chair, to yield 5
minutes to the gentlewoman from Wy-
oming (Ms. CHENEY), one of the hardest
working women I know.
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Chair, I would
like to start by thanking my dear
friend and colleague, Ms. FOXX, the Re-
publican leader of the House Education
and Labor Committee, for her tremen-
dous work and leadership on behalf of
all American women and families.
Madam Chair, I rise today in strong
opposition to H.R. 7, the so-called Pay-
check Fairness Act. This should be
called the ‘‘Pay the Trial Lawyers
Act.’’
Madam Chair, my State of Wyoming
launched the fight for women’s equal-
ity and rights when we became the
first jurisdiction in the world to grant
women the right to vote 150 years ago.
Here in this Chamber, 100 years ago,
the House agreed that women should
have the right to vote on a national
basis. Leaders of the women’s suffrage
movement were fighting on behalf of
women’s rights. They were not fighting
to provide greater payouts to trial law-
yers. We should honor those women,
and the generations of women who
came after them, by defeating this
sham bill.
The bill my Democratic colleagues
have put on the floor today offers no
new protections for women in the
workplace. It paints job creators, many
of whom in the Trump economy are in-
creasingly women, as evil. Republicans
know that economic policies that gen-
erate growth, create jobs, and increase
wages benefit women and men. Our
policies empower women and facilitate
the success of women-owned busi-
nesses, which account for roughly 9
million jobs and $1.7 trillion in rev-
enue.
Madam Chair, today’s bill is just the
latest example of the misguided and
damaging policies Democrats in this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.035 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2849
March 27, 2019
body are attempting to pursue. They
claim to be ‘‘for the people,’’ but in the
nearly 3 months that they have been in
charge, they have embraced socialism;
they have enabled anti-Semitism; they
have passed legislation that violates
the First Amendment and the Second
Amendment; and they have repeatedly
refused to take steps necessary to pro-
tect the lives of babies after those ba-
bies are born.
Now, Madam Chair, they are telling
us they are fighting for women when
really they are simply fighting for trial
lawyers. We have seen this movie be-
fore. The Democrats are not really for
the people. They are for the govern-
ment and for the special interest
groups that support them. The Amer-
ican people know better, and we de-
serve better.
Madam Chair, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on
this bill, and I call on my Democratic
colleagues to come together with us, to
work with us, so that we can actually
make real progress for America’s
women and their families.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Connecticut (Ms.
DELAURO), the sponsor of the bill.
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Chair, I rise
in support of H.R. 7, the Paycheck
Fairness Act.
It is a historic day on the House of
Representatives floor, and we are going
to pass paycheck fairness, equal pay
for equal work, in this United States of
America.
Madam Chair, I thank the chairman
of the Education and Labor Committee
for getting this bill through the com-
mittee and onto the floor today. We
have waited 8 years to be able to vote
on this issue.
The United States Congress has a
rich history of making a difference in
the lives of the American people: So-
cial Security, the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act, the GI Bill, Medicare, and the
Affordable Care Act, to name but a few.
Today, we can make a difference for
working women and their families.
Today, we can address the biggest eco-
nomic challenge of our time, that
Americans are in jobs that do not pay
them enough to live on. We can address
their economic struggle. And, yes, this
is a bill that the majority is passing
today to address that economic need
for families.
I cannot tell you how difficult it has
been to break through on something so
simple: Men and women in the same
job deserve the same pay. But now, the
issue and the environment have col-
lided. Equal pay is at the center of our
public discourse, and paycheck fairness
is ready for passage today.
A bipartisan bill supported by every
member of the Democratic Caucus, the
Paycheck Fairness Act toughens rem-
edies in the Equal Pay Act of 1963 to
give America’s working women the op-
portunity to fight wage discrimination
and to receive the paycheck that they
have earned.
Under existing law, damages are too
insubstantial to provide women with
full restitution or provide bad-acting
companies a meaningful deterrent.
Paycheck fairness puts gender-based
discrimination sanctions on equal foot-
ing with other forms of wage discrimi-
nation by allowing women to sue for
compensatory and punitive damages. It
better protects employees from being
fired for sharing their salary with co-
workers. It establishes a grant program
to provide salary negotiation training
for girls and for women. It ensures that
employers are not reliant on wage his-
tory when they hire an employee.
Over 60 years ago, after Republican
President Dwight Eisenhower called for
equal pay legislation during his 1956
State of the Union Address on the floor
of this House, and more than 55 years
after President Kennedy signed the
Equal Pay Act, pay discrimination is
very much still a reality in our coun-
try. In 2017, there were almost 26,000
charges of unlawful, sex-based pay dis-
crimination filed with the U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission
and 996 Equal Pay Act charges.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield an additional 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from Connecticut.
Ms. DELAURO. Women continue to
earn 20 percent less than men, on aver-
age, according to Census data. Women
earn less regardless of the choices they
make in their career or education.
Across industries, whether you are a fi-
nancial manager, a registered nurse, a
schoolteacher, or an executive, a pay
gap exists between men and women.
Ten years ago, we passed the Lilly
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. It reopened
the courtroom door but did not address
the underlying issue at hand today.
We have an opportunity to pass the
Paycheck Fairness Act. It is a matter
of right and wrong. Discrimination is
unacceptable, and we are all dimin-
ished when we fall short.
President Kennedy said, when he
signed the Equal Pay Act, that this
would ‘‘add to our laws another struc-
ture basic to democracy’’ and ‘‘affirm
our determination that when women
enter the labor force, they will find
equality in their pay envelope.’’
We can do this today on the floor of
this House. I urge my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle to vote for the
Paycheck Fairness Act and make sure
that we guarantee equal pay for equal
work.
b 1400
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER),
my distinguished colleague.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Chair,
today I rise in opposition to H.R. 7. It
is a deeply flawed bill that offers false
promises while empowering lawyers
and bureaucracy, not empowering
women.
In fact, I agree with my colleague
from Wyoming who said a minute ago
it should not be called the Paycheck
Fairness Act; it should be called the
pay the trial lawyers act.
If there exists residual bias and dis-
crimination against women in the
workplace, it is wrong, and it needs to
end. Since 1963, equal pay for equal
work has been the law of the land
under the Equal Pay Act.
Let me say that again. Since 1963,
equal pay for equal work has been the
law of the land. It is currently illegal
for employers to pay different wages
based on gender, and as the bill sponsor
just said, there are currently mecha-
nisms to address any wrongs that may
be there.
While I appreciate the sentiment of
the bill before us, I cannot support its
flawed approach. The pay the trial law-
yers act does not build on the Equal
Pay Act. It does not offer women new
protections against discrimination in
the workplace. Instead, it encourages
lawsuits against employers by offering
the prospect of unlimited monetary
damages.
The pay the trial lawyers act also
creates an impossibly high burden of
proof for job creators defending them-
selves in lawsuits.
Furthermore, the pay the trial law-
yers act handicaps job creators, includ-
ing women-owned businesses, by adding
onerous compensation reporting re-
quirements. The Federal bureaucracy
will heap yet another burden on hard-
working Americans if this passes.
So, Madam Chair, the pay the trial
lawyers act does not build on the Equal
Pay Act’s success. Instead, it encour-
ages lawsuits, hurts job creators, and
empowers lawyers. Sadly, it also
misses an opportunity to truly help
women.
For these reasons, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in opposing this
deeply flawed bill.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. PELOSI),
the Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives.
Ms. PELOSI. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman for yielding. I thank
him also for his extraordinary leader-
ship in matters that relate to the edu-
cation of the American people, employ-
ment preparedness, fairness in our
workforce, and, of course, today.
Madam Chair, I thank the chairman
for giving us this opportunity on this
day of the House of Representatives.
This is a day that God has made. Let us
rejoice and be glad. And let us make
the most of it in a very joyous way. It
is a day of celebration.
Madam Chair, the gentleman, BOBBY
SCOTT, has been a supporter of this ini-
tiative for a long time, and I thank
him for making today possible.
And it happens on a day when we are
honored to have, in the Speaker’s
chair, Congresswoman ELEANOR
HOLMES NORTON, a champion to end
discrimination in every way in our
country, including discrimination in
the paycheck.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.037 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2850 March 27, 2019
Madam Chair, today I rise in support
of the Paycheck Fairness Act. It reaf-
firms our Nation’s sacred promise that
equal pay deserves equal work.
I do so in saluting Congresswoman
ROSA DELAURO, Madam Chair, the
guardian angel of this legislation and
the godmother of so many initiatives
in this House to support progress for
America’s working families.
The ability to balance work, to bal-
ance work and home is a challenge that
many families face, men and women
alike, but ROSA DELAURO has been a
constant champion for America’s work-
ing families.
While we are talking today about
equality in the paycheck, she has also
been a champion for paid sick leave
and affordable childcare. The list goes
on and on. Madam Chair, I thank the
gentlewoman—guardian angel, god-
mother—for making today possible.
I am very excited about this. It is
historic. It should happen at a time
when we have over 100 women serving
in the House of Representatives, and it
should happen in the same Congress
that we will also observe the 100th an-
niversary of the passing of the amend-
ment to have women have the right to
vote.
It is all very historic. It is all about
progress, and that progress on this bill
began in this Congress 2 months ago.
House Democrats stood with Lilly
Ledbetter on the 10th anniversary of
President Obama signing the Lilly
Ledbetter Act, exactly 10 years ago,
signing that Fair Pay bill into law.
It was a magnificent achievement, it,
too, being led by George Miller, the
chair of the committee Mr. SCOTT now
chairs. ROSA DELAURO, of course,
played a hand in that.
The gentlewoman from Connecticut
(Ms. DELAURO) then introduced the
equal pay bill, and then we passed it in
the House. It didn’t pass the Senate—60
votes needed in the Senate—but she
has persisted, and we are fortunate for
that.
We are grateful to her and to Lilly
Ledbetter and the groups, so many out-
side groups that have worked so hard
to mobilize and make this difference—
some of them include the American As-
sociation of University Women, the Na-
tional Women’s Law Center, National
Partnership for Women and Families,
National Organization for Women, Na-
tional Committee for Pay Equity,
MomsRising, UltraViolet, Center for
Law and Social Policy, the Leadership
Conference on Civil and Human Rights,
NAACP, League of Women Voters, U.S.
Women’s Chamber of Commerce, the
list goes on and on, the Anti-Defama-
tion League, the American Psycho-
logical Association, and many more—
because that outside mobilization will
be important in passing this legislation
and turning it into law, into an im-
provement in the lives of America’s
working families.
Now we are proud to pass this bill be-
fore Equal Pay Day, which is on April
2, next week—April Pay Day, which
symbolizes when a woman’s wages
catch up to a man’s earnings from the
previous year. In other words, the first
3 months of the year, most women are
working for free compared to what a
man will make in the overall year.
So April 2 is that day. By then, we
will have already been celebrating for a
few days.
We pass this legislation during Wom-
en’s History Month as we serve with a
woman Speaker of the House and with
more than 100 women in the same Con-
gress, as I said before, marking 100
years since women won the right to
vote.
So this is about respect. It is about
respect, my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle, respect for women and the
work that they do. And if they do equal
work, why wouldn’t they get equal
pay?
Would you, my colleague, like to get
less than your colleagues on the Re-
publican side of the aisle?
Would you, any of my colleagues on
this side of the aisle, like to work for
less than our male counterparts?
Well, why should women and the rest
of the workforce then be subjected to
that discrimination?
Paycheck fairness is about respect. It
is about justice for women, finally clos-
ing the wage gap that robs women of
more than $400,000 over the course of
their working lives. And for women of
color, it is even a bigger difference.
And this not only has an impact on
their pay, it has an impact on their
pensions and on their retirement. So
this is very, very important.
This legislation advances progress for
families because it is about equal pay
for women. It is about how that equal-
ity of paycheck affects their families,
ensuring that women can earn the
wages they have earned so they can
pay for their family’s everyday needs,
such as rent, groceries, childcare,
healthcare—the list goes on.
Two-thirds of moms are either the
primary breadwinners or co-bread-
winners in their households in our
country. This legislation strengthens
America, unleashing the full power of
women in our economy and upholding
the value of fairness.
Do you believe in fairness in our de-
mocracy?
When President Kennedy signed the
Equal Pay Act into law in 1963, he cele-
brated equal pay as a ‘‘structure basic
to democracy’’—equal pay, a structure
basic to democracy—enlarging the
issue to our great democracy.
We are proud to take this step to
fully and finally secure the paycheck
fairness that is fundamental to our de-
mocracy because it will implement the
Equal Pay Act, make it enforceable.
Yet, securing paycheck fairness is
only the first step that House Demo-
crats will take. We will continue to
unlock the full economic power of
women in our workplace with paid sick
leave, led by Congresswoman DELAURO,
affordable childcare, led by Congress-
woman DELAURO, as well as a fair wage
because we know that, in our economy
and in our country, when women suc-
ceed, America succeeds.
I, therefore, urge a bipartisan vote
for this legislation for women to suc-
ceed and to have equality in our soci-
ety as they have equality in their pay-
checks.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield 5 minutes to the distin-
guished gentleman from Alabama (Mr.
BYRNE).
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Chair, I thank
my colleague for yielding.
I believe all my colleagues can agree
that women deserve equal pay for equal
work. However, the bill considered
today takes the wrong approach to en-
sure that current equal protections,
protections that have been in place
since 1963, are reaffirmed and fortified.
This bill offers no new protections for
women in the workforce. Instead, it
makes it more difficult for employers
and employees to have an open and in-
formative discussion about hiring and
other employment decisions.
Perhaps worst of all, it is designed in
a way that helps increase the bottom
line for lawyers. That is right. The
only paychecks that this legislation
will increase are paychecks for law-
yers.
It is unfair to women; it is unfair to
the workforce; and it is unfair to busi-
nesses.
It may come as a surprise to many
people that the so-called Paycheck
Fairness Act offers no new protections
against pay discrimination.
Let me repeat that. The legislation
being debated today offers no new pro-
tections against pay discrimination.
Instead, it imposes a one-size-fits-all
mandate to one of the most varied and
complex workforces in the world.
Rather than allowing for informal
discussions, the Paycheck Fairness Act
strictly limits communications be-
tween employers and employees on key
hiring decisions. Under this bill, the
burden is laid on the backs of employ-
ers, and the lack of clarity for employ-
ees is simply unworkable.
I don’t see how limiting the discus-
sion between employers and employees,
particularly on hiring decisions, is
going to help anybody; and I certainly
don’t see how opening the gates to lim-
itless, frivolous lawsuits is going to
help anybody.
It should be noted, the Lilly
Ledbetter Pay Act that the Speaker
just alluded to was signed 10 years ago
with the promise that it would allevi-
ate pay discrimination in the work-
place. Yet, if you look at pay discrimi-
nation charges filed with the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission,
they have remained steady each year
since 1997, both before and after the
Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act became
law. I am hearing that same kind of
overpromising when it comes to H.R. 7.
In an effort to improve the bill and
ensure the damages actually go to the
women impacted instead of lawyers, I
offered an amendment that would cap
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.038 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2851
March 27, 2019
attorney’s fees for any judgment to 20
percent of the judgment. Sadly, this
commonsense amendment was blocked
by the Rules Committee.
Why don’t my colleagues want to
join me in ensuring that money actu-
ally gets to victims of pay discrimina-
tion instead of simply padding the wal-
lets of lawyers?
It is a real shame this amendment
was not made in order. I think we can
all agree that the idea of discrimina-
tion against someone based on sex is
absolutely unacceptable, and it is in-
consistent with the values we hold as
Americans.
This issue is not partisan. In 1944, Re-
publican Congresswoman Winifred
Stanley introduced a precursor to the
Equal Pay Act, which, since passing
years later, has been the law of the
land for the past 55 years.
The Equal Pay Act of 1963 specifi-
cally made it illegal to pay different
wages to employees of the opposite sex
for equal work. In addition, title 7 of
the Civil Rights Act made it illegal for
employers to discriminate on the basis
of race, color, national origin, religion,
and sex.
Yet, as I said before, despite these
protections on the books, there are bad
actors who continue to practice pay
discrimination. Based on laws existing
for decades, it is unacceptable, and we
must hold these bad actors account-
able.
Unfortunately, the Paycheck Fair-
ness Act, as written, fails to improve
employment protections.
b 1415
We have a responsibility to the
American people to craft strong poli-
cies that support women in the work-
place, not merely offer weak lip service
that, in fact, cripples employers and
employees alike.
I ask my colleagues to join me in op-
posing this phony bill, and, instead,
let’s work together in a bipartisan way
to actually ensure women continue to
thrive in the workforce.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Chair, today
women make up nearly half of our
workforce. Sixty-four percent of moth-
ers in the United States work outside
the home. Many are the sole family
wage earner. Their wages pay for rent,
for groceries, for childcare, for
healthcare. But even though it is 2019,
too often, equal pay for equal work is
not a reality.
On average, White women earn 80
cents on the dollar compared with
White men in substantially equal jobs.
The wage gap is even more pronounced
for women of color in nearly every line
of work, regardless of education, expe-
rience, occupation, industry, or job
title.
This has severe and long-term con-
sequences for the lives of working
women, families, and for our economy.
With the Equal Pay Act, title VII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and more
recently, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay
Act, we have made some progress in re-
ducing inequities for women in the
workplace. But, unfortunately, loop-
holes and insufficient enforcement
tools have allowed wage discrimination
to persist.
For example, a lack of easily acces-
sible data on hiring and wages has
made it difficult to detect, let alone
prevent, wage discrimination. And even
when wage discrimination is discov-
ered, working women face significant
barriers to fulfilling the heavy burden
of proof for holding discriminating em-
ployers accountable.
Last month, I was honored to chair
the hearing on persistent, gender-based
wage discrimination. We heard wit-
nesses describe the barriers to detect-
ing wage discrimination and holding
employers accountable. But most im-
portantly, we heard how the Paycheck
Fairness Act will provide workers with
the tools they need to help close the
gender pay gap and achieve wage equal-
ity.
Several States have already acted to
address pay inequities, including bipar-
tisan efforts in my home State of Or-
egon. It is time for Congress to step up
and address persistent wage discrimi-
nation nationwide.
By passing the Paycheck Fairness
Act, we have the opportunity to end
discriminatory pay practices that con-
tribute to keeping women and families
in poverty. We have the opportunity to
finally make equal pay for equal work
a reality.
Madam Chair, I include in the
RECORD a letter from AARP outlining
support for the Paycheck Fairness Act
because the bill will strengthen finan-
cial security for women while in the
workforce, and later enhance retire-
ment income security.
AARP,
Washington, DC, March 26, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Republican Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND LEADER MCCAR-
THY: On behalf of our 38 million members and
all Americans age 50 and older, AARP is
writing to express our support for the Pay-
check Fairness Act (H.R. 7). This bill would
strengthen financial security for women
both while in the workforce and later in re-
tirement, and it would provide an important
protection for all workers against age dis-
crimination in hiring.
Pay discrimination against women jeop-
ardizes their financial security, both while
working and in retirement. The roughly 20
percent pay gap between women and men
who work full-time, year-round means wom-
en’s median earnings are more than $10,000 a
year less than men’s, with an even bigger
shortfall for women of color. Because all ele-
ments of retirement income—Social Secu-
rity, pensions, and savings—are based on
one’s earnings while in the workforce, lower
earnings during women’s work lives follow
them into retirement. As a result, women
age 65 and older are 80 percent more likely
than men to live below the poverty level in
retirement. By strengthening the law
against pay discrimination, H.R. 7 would
help address women’s lower pay and lower
incomes in retirement.
In addition, AARP supports the Paycheck
Fairness Act’s provision on salary history.
While asking about a job applicant’s prior
salary history has long been recognized as a
barrier to equal pay it has also proven to be
a barrier to employment for older workers. A
majority (56 percent) of all older workers age
50 plus have been prematurely pushed out of
longtime jobs before they choose to retire.
Once displaced, older workers have great dif-
ficulty finding reemployment, and most are
unable to find a job with wages comparable
to the job they lost. It is quite common for
prospective employers to use a prior higher
salary level to disqualify an older applicant
from consideration because they simply as-
sume that the worker will require the same
wage. However, there are many reasons why
an older worker might be willing to accept a
lower salary, including better benefits or
work hours; a more desirable job/firm; a ca-
reer change; or simply desperation to find a
new job. In these cases, the ability of the em-
ployer to ask about and rely on salary his-
tory in considering an older applicant often
results in age discrimination in hiring.
In conclusion, H.R. 7 will help prevent one
of the age-related assumptions that hinder
equal opportunity for older workers, as well
as enhance retirement income security for
women. For these reasons, we urge support
for the Paycheck Fairness Act.
Sincerely,
NANCY A. LEAMOND,
Executive Vice President and Chief Advocacy
& Engagement Officer.
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Chair, I also
include in the RECORD a letter from the
AAUW in support of the Paycheck
Fairness Act.
AAUW,
March 25, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
more than 170,000 members and supporters of
the American Association of University
Women (AAUW), I urge you to vote in sup-
port of the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 7)
and to oppose harmful amendments when the
bill comes to the House floor as soon as this
week. Despite federal and state equal pay
laws, gender pay gaps persist. The Paycheck
Fairness Act offers a much needed update to
the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by providing new
tools to battle these pervasive pay gaps and
to challenge discrimination.
In January, we celebrated the 10th anni-
versary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act.
This vital law rectified the Supreme Court’s
harmful decision in Ledbetter v. Goodyear
Tire & Rubber Company. The law helps to
ensure that individuals subjected to unlawful
compensation discrimination are able to
bring a case of ongoing pay discrimination
regardless of when it began. Despite the im-
portance of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay
Act, this law’s enactment only restored dec-
ades of prior law—it did not give women new
tools to receive equal pay for equal work.
There is no more fitting way to mark this
historic milestone than making real, con-
crete progress in ensuring all women receive
fair pay. While the gap has narrowed since
passage of the Equal Pay Act of 1963,
progress has largely stalled in recent years.
Data from the U.S. Census Bureau once
again revealed that women working full-
time, year-round are typically paid only 80
cents for every dollar paid to men. The pay
gaps have grown even wider for women of
color. African American women and Latinas
make, respectively, 61 and 53 cents on the
dollar as compared to non-Hispanic, white
men. The overall pay gap has only decreased
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.040 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2852 March 27, 2019
by a nickel during the 21st century and, un-
less action is taken, the pay gap between
men’s and women’s earnings will not close
until 2106.
Research indicates that the gender pay gap
develops very early in women’s careers. Con-
trolling for factors known to affect earnings,
such as education and training, marital sta-
tus, and hours worked, research finds that
college-educated women still earn 7 percent
less than men just one year out of college.
Over time, the gap compounds and widens,
impacting women’s social security and re-
tirement.
Ensuring that women have equal pay
would have a dramatic impact on families
and the economy. Many companies have al-
ready recognized the benefits and the power
of women’s increased economic participa-
tion, and that is why business groups like
the U.S. Women’s Chamber of Commerce and
Main Street Alliance have endorsed the Pay-
check Fairness Act. According to a 2017 re-
port from Institute for Women’s Policy Re-
search (IWPR), the poverty rate for all work-
ing women would be cut in half, falling from
8.0 percent to 3.8 percent, if women were paid
the same as comparable men. The same
study by IWPR indicates that the U.S. econ-
omy would have produced an additional
$512.6 billion in income if women had re-
ceived equal pay for equal work. This is why
I urge you to pass this important bill.
The Paycheck Fairness Act would update
and strengthen the Equal Pay Act of 1963 to
ensure that it provides effective protection
against sex-based pay discrimination in to-
day’s workplace.
The bill takes several important steps, in-
cluding:
Ensuring Non-Retaliation: The bill pro-
hibits retaliation against workers for dis-
cussing or disclosing wages. Without the
non-retaliation provisions of the Paycheck
Fairness Act, many women will continue to
be silenced in the workplace—that is, prohib-
ited from talking about wages with cowork-
ers due to the fear of being fired. This is an
issue that keeps women—like it kept Lilly
Ledbetter—from learning of pay discrimina-
tion against them.
Prohibiting Use of Salary History: The bill
prohibits employers from relying on salary
history in determining future pay, so that
prior pay discrimination doesn’t follow
workers from job to job.
Ensuring Job-Relatedness: The bill closes
loopholes that have weakened the Equal Pay
Act over time by ensuring that disparities in
pay are justified by a business necessity that
is related to the job.
Equalizing Remedies: The bill ensures
women can receive the same robust remedies
for sex-based pay discrimination that are
currently available to those subjected to dis-
crimination based on race and ethnicity.
Providing Additional Assistance and Re-
sources: The bill also provides technical as-
sistance to businesses, requires wage data
collection, and supports salary negotiation
skills training programs to give workers the
tools to advocate for higher wages.
Providing a Small Business Exception: The
Equal Pay Act and the Fair Labor Standards
Act have an exemption for small businesses
that generate less than $500,000 in annual
revenues a year, and the Paycheck Fairness
Act would keep that exemption intact. The
bill would also support small businesses with
technical assistance.
The pay gap is persistent and can only be
addressed if women are armed with the tools
necessary to challenge discrimination
against them, and employers are provided
with effective incentives and technical as-
sistance to comply with the law. I urge you
to take a critical step towards achieving pay
equity by voting in support of the Paycheck
Fairness Act and opposing harmful amend-
ments when the bill comes to the House floor
for a vote as soon as this week.
We urge you to stand with women and fam-
ilies and vote yes on the Paycheck Fairness
Act (H.R. 7). Cosponsorship and votes associ-
ated with this bill and amendments may be
scored in the AAUW Action Fund Congres-
sional Voting Record for the 116th Congress.
Sincerely,
DEBORAH J. VAGINS,
Senior Vice President, Public Policy and
Research.
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Chair, today,
we have this opportunity. Let’s pass
the Paycheck Fairness Act and make
equal pay for equal work a reality.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield 5 minutes to the distin-
guished gentlewoman from New York
(Ms. STEFANIK).
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Chair, I
thank my good friend, Ranking Mem-
ber FOXX.
Madam Chair, there are nearly 75
million women working in the United
States, the most in our Nation’s his-
tory. Thanks to our strong economy,
nearly 3 million jobs were created in
the last year, and of those jobs, 58 per-
cent went to women.
Women are graduating from college
at a higher rate than their male coun-
terparts and are increasingly their
family’s primary breadwinner. Despite
all of these positive economic indica-
tors, there remains evidence that in
some cases women do not earn the
same levels of compensation as men.
Republicans strongly support equal
pay for equal work, and we owe it to
women to constructively engage on
this important issue and put forward
solutions to strengthen existing law.
Democrats have put forth a bill that
prioritizes trial attorneys and govern-
ment regulation over women’s eco-
nomic empowerment. The Democratic
bill, for the first time, would require
data disclosure to the EEOC that col-
lects compensation data broken down
by the sex, race, and national origin of
employees, while also tracking the hir-
ing, termination, and promotion data
of those employees.
These intrusions into the operations
of private businesses would add compli-
ance costs exceeding $700 million per
year. And on top of these onerous new
requirements, H.R. 7 is a giveaway to
trial attorneys by changing class ac-
tion formation from opt in, to opt out.
America’s businesses will need to
prepare for an onslaught of frivolous
lawsuits which now will be open to un-
limited compensatory and punitive
damages.
The bill establishes an impossibly
high burden of proof for employers de-
fending the legitimacy of any pay dif-
ferentials between employees. We need
to recognize that in today’s modern
economy, 40 percent of small busi-
nesses are run by women. This bill
would make it harder for these women
business leaders.
This issue is far too important to
leave to partisan solutions. That is
why today I am proud to introduce the
Wage Equity Act with over 40 of my
colleagues, which offers a stark con-
trast to the partisan approach laid out
in H.R. 7. We looked to innovation in
the States to find consensus, bipartisan
policies that were supported by both
Republicans and Democrats, and signed
by Republican Governors, proof that
equal pay for equal work is not a par-
tisan issue, and that Republicans are,
indeed, leading the way on women’s
economic opportunity.
The Wage Equity Act is reflective of
the modern workforce and supports the
empowerment of women in today’s
economy. Specifically, my legislation
allows employees to negotiate vol-
untary, flexible work arrangements.
These dynamic compensation models
empower the individual to seek the
work arrangement that works best in
their own life and for their own family.
America’s businesses, in particular
our small businesses, which are the
backbone of our economy, they seek to
do right by their employees. In rec-
ognition of this, the Wage Equity Act
creates a self-audit system for vol-
untary pay analysis by businesses.
Under our proposal, a business could
and should undergo a pay analysis to
proactively rectify pay disparity
should it exist. By creating this envi-
ronment of consistent self-reflection,
we can further empower businesses to
do what they already seek to do, doing
right not only for their employees, but
following the law.
Madam Chair, I believe that an indi-
vidual should be able to negotiate em-
ployment based upon their qualifica-
tions and merit for the position. I also
believe that the victim of wage dis-
crimination at any point in their ca-
reer should not have to have this dis-
crimination follow them to their next
job and compound throughout the rest
of their career.
That is why my bill protects the em-
ployee’s right to not disclose their sal-
ary history during the job interview
process unless they wish to voluntarily
disclose it.
We must acknowledge the
compounding impact of wage discrimi-
nation on a person’s career and be will-
ing to discuss ideas to free employees
from this burden.
At the same time, we cannot erode
the necessary negotiation that takes
place in a job interview or ignore the
role wage figures can play in advance-
ment of an individual through their ca-
reer.
The Wage Equity Act protects the
ability for an employee and their per-
spective employer to have a wage ex-
pectation conversation, an important
part of any negotiation.
My legislation protects an employ-
ee’s ability to discuss compensation
with their colleagues, while giving the
employers the ability to set reasonable
limitations on the time, location, and
manner of this activity to protect em-
ployees from harassment.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:22 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.015 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2853
March 27, 2019
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield an additional 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from New York.
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Chair, fur-
thermore, the Wage Equity Act seeks
to put women on equal footing with
men as they start their careers.
The legislation provides for a grant
program targeted toward women in col-
lege and career tech programs to pro-
vide negotiation skills education.
Lastly, my bill directs the GAO to
study the manager’s gap. We know that
the wage gap greatly expands for
women after they return to the work-
force following parental leave. We
must have a clear sense of the impact
that leave during this time will have
on an employee’s future earning and
opportunity potentials.
These are commonsense proposals
that are supported by Democrats and
Republicans. I encourage my col-
leagues to reject Big Government over-
reach, and find practical, bipartisan so-
lutions that improve and strengthen
the existing law of the land: equal pay
for equal work.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentle-
woman from North Carolina (Ms.
ADAMS).
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Chair, I want to
thank Chairman SCOTT for his leader-
ship and Representative DELAURO for
bringing this bill to the floor.
I rise today in strong support of the
Paycheck Fairness Act because, like
Fannie Lou Hamer and Representative
DELAURO, I am sick and tired of being
sick and tired of paycheck inequity.
For three decades, from the North
Carolina House to the United States
Congress, I have been fighting to close
the gender wage gap. As the new chair
of the Education and Labor Sub-
committee on Workforce Protections, I
am very proud to support this bill. It
takes the average woman an additional
91 days to earn what her male peers
earned in 2018, and that is unaccept-
able.
In my district in North Carolina,
women still only make about 82 cents
for every dollar a man makes. It is
even worse for women of color, who are
even less likely to make as much as
their male counterparts working the
same job. Black women earn only 61
cents for every dollar a man makes;
Hispanic women only 53 cents.
When we shortchange women, we
shortchange our children, our families,
and our economy. In fact, women are
shortchanged $500 billion every year.
Fifty-six years have passed since the
Equal Pay Act was signed into law, and
it has been 10 years since President
Obama signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair
Pay Act.
Yet, our work remains unfinished.
Today, the U.S. House of Representa-
tives speaks loud and clear, and we will
no longer wait while women continue
to do the same work and not get the
same pay. The time is up for that.
Madam Chair, I include in the
RECORD a letter from AFSCME which
states that the Paycheck Fairness Act
is integral to ensuring women earn the
same amount as men for equal work.
AFSCME,
Washington, DC, March 25, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
members of the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME), I am writing in support of the
‘‘Paycheck Fairness Act’’ (H.R. 7). This leg-
islation is integral to ensure that women
earn the same amount as men for equal
work.
To date, women make up almost 47 percent
of the workforce in America. Their partici-
pation has steadily climbed since the 1970s,
and they are completing college and univer-
sity education at higher rates. The range of
occupations women workers hold has also ex-
panded with women making notable gains in
professional and managerial occupations.
Yet with more than 74.6 million women in
the civilian workforce, there is still a gender
pay gap between men and women. That’s
why passage of this bill is necessary. Even
with the enormous progress made by women
over many decades, women continue to face
discrimination that limits their ability to
succeed and advance at work.
Fifty-six years after former President John
F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act into
law, women earn less than men. While that
law along with other civil rights legislation
like Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act
have helped to narrow the wage gap, it still
exists across all occupations, industries, and
trade and educational attainment. This
shortchanges many working families and
creates little upward mobility in compensa-
tion to meet basic household needs. Cur-
rently, women make only 80 percent of every
dollar a man makes in nearly every occupa-
tion where there is enough earnings data to
compare. This gap in earnings translates
into $10,169 less per year in average earnings.
This percentage is even lower for women of
color. Black women earn 61 cents, Latina
women 53 cents, Native Hawaiian and Pacific
Islander women 62 cents, Native women 58
cents, and Asian women 58 cents for every
dollar paid to a white man. This trend is not
only troubling for women’s career and finan-
cial success, but it also limits their ability
to save for retirement.
Stronger equal pay protections and en-
forcement measures are essential to ensure
that our workplaces treat women fairly and
operate free of discrimination on the job.
AFSCME strongly supports the ‘‘Paycheck
Fairness Act’’ (H.R. 7) and encourages swift
passage to alleviate gender-based wage dis-
crimination, and ensure women receive equal
pay for equal work.
Sincerely,
SCOTT FREY,
Director of Federal Government Affairs.
Ms. ADAMS. By passing the Pay-
check Fairness Act, we will strengthen
the Equal Pay Act. We will bolster the
rights of working women, and finally,
we will put an end to gender-based
wage disparity.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, before I recognize the next
speaker, I include in the RECORD a
chart which shows that pay discrimina-
tion charges filed per year with the
EEOC have remained statistically con-
sistent during the George W. Bush,
Obama, and Trump administrations.
EEOC EQUAL PAY ACT STATISTICS
EQUAL PAY ACT (EPA) CHARGES FILED WITH
EEOC (AVERAGE PER YEAR)
George W. Bush Administration (FY 2001–
2008): 1,036.
Obama Administration (FY 2009–2016): 999.
Trump Administration (FY 2017–2018): 1,031.
EEOC EPA CHARGES RESOLVED* (AVERAGE PER
YEAR)
Bush Administration (FY 2001–2008): 959.
Obama Administration (FY 2009–2016):
1,078.
Trump Administration (FY 2017–2018): 1,220.
* EEOC resolves charges in a number of dif-
ferent ways: negotiated settlement, with-
drawal of charge upon receipt of desired ben-
efits, successful conciliation, unsuccessful
conciliation, a finding of no reasonable
cause, or closure for administrative reasons.
LAWSUITS FILED BY EEOC WITH EPA CLAIMS (AV-
ERAGE PER YEAR) (NOTE: NUMBERS DO NOT IN-
CLUDE PRIVATE LITIGATION)
Bush Administration (FY 2001–2008): 9.
Obama Administration (FY 2009–2016): 3.
Trump Administration (FY 2017–2018): 8.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. ALLEN).
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Chair, I rise
today to speak out against H.R. 7, leg-
islation that places unprecedented re-
strictions and liability on job creators
that will harm the very women it
claims to protect.
As a small business owner with over
40 years of experience creating jobs, I
know just how hard it can be for em-
ployers to find skilled and qualified
workers.
With 7.6 million available jobs
throughout our Nation, the last thing
we need to do is overregulate our busi-
nesses, especially when Federal law al-
ready makes it illegal to pay different
wages to women for equal work.
H.R. 7 dramatically increases liabil-
ity for employers, eliminates a busi-
ness owner’s ability to contest gender-
based pay discrimination cases, ex-
pands damages, and encourages frivo-
lous lawsuits.
Furthermore, this partisan bill offers
no new protections against pay dis-
crimination in the workplace. Rather,
H.R. 7 directly benefits trial lawyers at
the expense of working women. Taken
as a whole, this bill will very likely
limit or obstruct an employer’s efforts
to recruit, hire, promote workers, and
to increase their pay—once again,
empty partisan promises from my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle.
b 1430
However, after passing historic tax
reform under the Republican-led Con-
gress and eliminating burdensome red
tape under the leadership of President
Trump, our businesses are continuing
to empower women across this country
at unprecedented levels.
We have more women working in the
U.S. than ever before, nearly 75 mil-
lion. Women filled nearly 60 percent of
the 2.8 million jobs created in the last
year. One in five employer businesses
nationwide is owned by women, includ-
ing by my wife of 45 years, Robin.
I need to keep this momentum going,
not obstruct employers’ efforts to re-
cruit, hire, and promote workers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.043 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2854 March 27, 2019
Madam Chair, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote
today on H.R. 7.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. LEVIN).
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chair, as vice chairman of the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, I am
so proud that our committee made it a
top priority this year to bring the Pay-
check Fairness Act to the floor, and I
congratulate Chairman SCOTT for his
leadership.
This is an issue where the evidence
could not be clearer. In Michigan’s
Ninth District, which I represent, for
example, women’s median annual wage
is more than $10,000 lower than men’s.
I don’t care how many jobs are created
or how many women are working, we
need to do something to, at long last,
make women’s pay equal to men’s.
If we allow this gap to persist, we are
not just telling women they aren’t
worth as much as men. We are doing
real damage to entire families and to
our economy. Failure to tackle the pay
gap isn’t just discriminatory; it is
shockingly shortsighted.
The Paycheck Fairness Act will fi-
nally align our treatment of gender
discrimination with other established
antidiscrimination policies. This is an
opportunity to realize equal pay for
equal work that we simply cannot af-
ford to miss.
I regret that my good friends across
the aisle did not introduce a single bill
to strengthen the Equal Pay Act across
the 20 years they held the gavel in this
Chamber. I hope they will join us today
to lift up America’s women and fami-
lies to full equality at long last.
Finally, I include in the RECORD a
strong letter of support for H.R. 7 from
the AFL–CIO.
AFL–CIO,
March 25, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: The AFL–CIO
strongly urges your support of the Paycheck
Fairness Act (H.R 7) when it comes to the
House floor this week.
The Paycheck Fairness Act is a long over-
due remedial measure that responds to the
demonstrated inadequacies of the 1963 Equal
Pay Act. Although the Equal Pay Act made
it illegal for employers to pay unequal wages
to male and female employees who perform
the same work, wage disparities between
men and women persist in both the private
and public sectors, at every educational
level, across the country. Women working
full time are paid only 80 cents for every dol-
lar paid to men, and this gap is greater for
women of color. While belonging to a union
is the surest way to guarantee equal pay on
the job—unionized women earn some 27 per-
cent more than do their non-union counter-
parts—the Paycheck Fairness Act would pro-
vide new effective tools to close the wage
gap.
The Paycheck Fairness Act provides tar-
geted remedies designed to update the 1963
Equal Pay Act. It requires employers to
demonstrate that wage gaps between men
and women doing the same work truly result
from factors unrelated to gender. It prohibits
employers’ use of prior salary history in set-
ting pay for new hires and employer retalia-
tion against workers who discuss their pay
with coworkers. Last, H.R. 7 brings Equal
Pay Act remedies and class action proce-
dures into conformance with those available
for other civil rights claims, and strengthens
the government’s ability to identify and
remedy systematic wage discrimination by
requiring employers to report pay data to
the EEOC.
When women endure pay discrimination,
entire families suffer. We urge you to sup-
port final passage of the Paycheck Fairness
Act (S. 84), and to oppose any amendment
that would weaken this important and long
overdue legislation.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM SAMUEL,
Director, Government Affairs.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chair, while I believe belonging to a
union is the surest way to guarantee
equal pay on the job, the Paycheck
Fairness Act will provide effective new
tools to close the wage gap.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the distin-
guished gentlewoman from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. MILLER).
Mrs. MILLER. Madam Chair, I rise
today to speak in opposition to H.R. 7,
the Paycheck Fairness Act. I am a
mother and a grandmother. I have
raised two boys and one husband. I
have owned businesses, managed em-
ployees, made payroll, served in the
State legislature, and herded buffalo. I
don’t need any more men trying to tell
me that they need to protect me from
being paid less. I am perfectly capable
of negotiating a fair wage for a fair
day’s work and choosing exactly what
is important to me when making my
own decisions.
The bill proposed by my colleagues
across the aisle tells young women en-
tering the workforce that they are un-
able to negotiate for their own jobs or
take control of their own life and that
they need to be coddled by the govern-
ment in order to succeed. What arro-
gance.
We are not some delicate and help-
less group that needs men to tell us
just how bad we have it and just how
much they need to make sure that we
are looked after. I can take care of my-
self, thank you, and so can every single
woman in this country. This bill is
nothing more than a trial lawyer’s
dream and a job creator’s nightmare.
The Equal Pay Act already makes it
illegal to pay unequal wages for equal
work. The men can go try to find some-
body else who needs their help. In the
meantime, I am going to focus on actu-
ally helping women earn more by cre-
ating good-paying jobs, by growing our
economy, and by building a system
that allows for flexible work schedules
and nurtures entrepreneurship.
We can’t legislate respect any more
than we can legislate common sense.
Women know real respect is earned. We
don’t need the men’s help, and we don’t
need the government’s help. We just
need them both to get out of our way.
I wholly oppose this legislation.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Florida (Ms. WILSON).
Ms. WILSON of Florida. Madam
Chair, I rise in strong support of H.R. 7,
the Paycheck Fairness Act. I thank
Representative DELAURO for her efforts
in continuing to push this bill to fru-
ition.
As chair of the HELP Subcommittee
and as an African American woman, I
feel very strongly about the issue of
pay fairness. Our Nation cannot ade-
quately improve labor conditions with-
out addressing the stark inequities
that exist along gender and racial
lines. The fact that, on average, women
currently earn just 80 cents for every
dollar a man earns for the same posi-
tion and amount of work is just plain
wrong and is a disgrace.
By passing the Paycheck Fairness
Act and promoting wage parity, we can
lift families out of poverty and keep
harmful biases out of the workplace.
There are too many poor working peo-
ple in America working two and three
jobs to keep their families whole. Re-
search has shown that a woman’s level
of education and work experience or
chosen industry do not necessarily
shield her from unfair pay. This prob-
lem is widespread and can be found
across all sectors of the economy, af-
fecting even the most prepared women.
Economically disadvantaged women
are hit extremely hard, as are women
of color. There are two Americas, a
rich and prosperous America and a
poor and struggling America. Black
and Latina women earn 61 cents and 53
cents, respectively, for every dollar
earned by men who perform the same
job—such a discrepancy, such a stark
statistic, such a shame. The wage gap
is too wide and narrowing much too
slowly for Congress not to act.
I strongly support H.R. 7 as a positive
step toward correcting this glaring in-
justice. I reiterate my strong support
for H.R. 7, and I urge all my colleagues
to vote ‘‘yes’’ for paycheck fairness.
Madam Chair, I include in the
RECORD a letter of support from the
National Education Association.
NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION,
March 26, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of our
three million members and the 50 million
students they serve, we urge you to VOTE
YES on the Paycheck Fairness Act of 2019
(H.R. 7). Votes associated with this issue
may be included in NEA’s Report Card for
the 116th Congress.
Equal pay for equal work is NOT today’s
reality.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics re-
ports that in 2017, the median weekly earn-
ings of full-time, salaried female workers
were 82 percent of those of full-time, salaried
male workers.
According to AAUW, the pay gap is even
bigger for women of color with African
Americans earning 61 cents, American In-
dian/Alaskan natives 58 cents, and Latinas 53
cents for every dollar paid to white men.
The gender pay gap exists in all demo-
graphics, all parts of the country, and nearly
all occupations—including female-dominated
professions like teaching and nursing.
The Institute for Women’s Policy Research
reports that closing the pay gap would cut
the poverty rate for working single mothers
in half and lift 2.5 million children out of
poverty.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.047 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2855
March 27, 2019
The Paycheck Fairness Act of 2019 would
help by:
Requiring employers to demonstrate that
gender is NOT the reason they pay employ-
ees different amounts to perform the same
jobs.
Prohibiting employers from asking job
candidates about their salary histories.
Protecting employees from retaliation if
they discuss their pay with colleagues.
Strengthening enforcement of equal pay
laws by requiring employers to provide to
the Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission (EEOC) data on salaries, promotions,
and dismissals, broken down by race and
gender.
Putting in place robust remedies for dis-
crimination.
For all of these reasons, we urge you to
VOTE YES on H.R. 7.
Sincerely,
MARC EGAN,
Director of Government Relations.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, we have made it clear
that we do not believe H.R. 7 is good
for working women, but no one has to
take our word for it. There are more
working women today than ever before.
Here is what many of the job creators
who have helped make that a reality
have to say about H.R. 7.
The H.R. Policy Association said:
As written, the bill would penalize legiti-
mate, nondiscriminatory pay decisions; im-
pose an unworkable burden of proof on em-
ployers that even The Washington Post has
said ‘‘potentially invites too much intrusion
and interference with core business deci-
sions’’; and add to the confusing labyrinth of
State and local pay history laws.
The National Federation of Inde-
pendent Business said:
H.R. 7 requires the Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission to issue regulations
providing for collection of employers’ com-
pensation data. Most small business owners
do not have a human resources department
or a full-time staff member in charge of re-
porting and compliance. NFIB members re-
port unreasonable government regulations as
their second most important small business
problem.
Americans for Tax Reform and the
Center for Worker Freedom says: ‘‘Un-
fortunately, this bill would actually
likely harm the women the Democrats
are claiming to help. If signed into law,
the legislation would likely lead to less
flexible work schedules for women,
fewer incentives for those who work
hard, and lower pay for all.’’
The National Taxpayers Union said:
Though well-intended, H.R. 7 would not re-
solve lingering issues of pay discrimination,
particularly when safeguards are already
available under the Equal Pay and Fair
Labor Standards Acts. Instead, under H.R. 7,
women could be perceived as a legal liabil-
ity, ultimately reducing employment oppor-
tunities. Rather than impose new regula-
tions that increase the cost of doing business
and kill jobs, Congress should remove bar-
riers that limit prosperity for both men and
women.
This bill, as my colleagues have said,
is a sham, and it simply doesn’t do
what my colleagues across the aisle
say it will do.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Illinois (Ms. UNDERWOOD).
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Madam Chair, let
me be very clear: Equal pay for equal
work has never been a reality for
women in America.
Congress recognized this for the first
time 56 years ago, before I was even
born, when the Equal Pay Act was
passed. This was a foundational piece
of civil rights legislation. But a half
century later, it is clear that the Equal
Pay Act isn’t working for everyone,
and it isn’t working fast enough.
In my district, for every dollar that
men in Naperville or Batavia or
McHenry make, women make 71 cents.
That is the worst pay gap in Illinois. It
means we have to work at least 10
years longer to earn the same lifetime
income. At this rate, every woman in
America wouldn’t make equal pay for
doing the same work for almost 200
years.
In my community in Illinois, the 14th
Congressional District isn’t willing to
wait that long, and neither are the
House Democrats. That is why I am
standing here today as a cosponsor and
strong supporter of the Paycheck Fair-
ness Act. There is no point in a wom-
an’s life, from childhood to retirement,
where the gender pay gap doesn’t hurt
her. The Paycheck Fairness Act would
take huge, critical steps to fix that.
The Committee on Education and
Labor held hearings on the act, and we
heard from experts how this bill would
do things like lift children out of pov-
erty, contribute billions of dollars to
America’s economy, and make sure
women have a safer, healthier retire-
ment.
Madam Chair, I include in the
RECORD a letter signed by 315 State,
local, and national organizations that
support the Paycheck Fairness Act.
VOTE FOR THE PAYCHECK FAIRNESS ACT
MARCH 25, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: As members of a
broad coalition of organizations that pro-
mote economic opportunity for women and
vigorous enforcement of antidiscrimination
laws, we strongly urge you to vote for the
Paycheck Fairness Act when it comes to the
House floor for a vote. Despite federal and
state equal pay laws, gender pay gaps per-
sist. This legislation offers a much needed
update to the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by pro-
viding new tools to battle the pervasive pay
gaps and to challenge discrimination.
In January, we celebrated two major ac-
complishments. First, an historic number of
women were sworn into the 116th Congress,
many of whom—along with their male col-
leagues—ran and won on issues central to
the economic well-being of families. Second,
on January 29, 2019, we commemorated the
tenth anniversary of the enactment of the
Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. That vital law
rectified the Supreme Court’s harmful deci-
sion in Ledbetter v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Company. The law helps to ensure that indi-
viduals subjected to unlawful compensation
discrimination are able to have their day in
court and effectively assert their rights
under federal antidiscrimination laws. But
the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, critical as
it is, is only one step on the path to ensuring
women receive equal pay for equal work.
There is no more fitting way to begin this
historic Congress than by making real, con-
crete progress in ensuring all women receive
fair pay. The Paycheck Fairness Act updates
and strengthens the Equal Pay Act of 1963 to
ensure that it provides robust protection
against sex-based pay discrimination. Among
other provisions, this comprehensive bill
bars retaliation against workers who volun-
tarily discuss or disclose their wages. It
closes loopholes that have allowed employers
to pay women less than men for the same
work without any important business jus-
tification related to the job. It ensures
women can receive the same robust remedies
for sex-based pay discrimination that are
currently available to those subjected to dis-
crimination based on race and ethnicity. It
prohibits employers from relying on salary
history in determining future pay, so that
pay discrimination does not follow women
from job to job. And it also provides much
needed training and technical assistance, as
well as data collection and research.
Women are increasingly the primary or co-
breadwinner in their families and cannot af-
ford to be shortchanged any longer. Women
working full-time, year-round are typically
paid only 80 cents for every dollar paid to
men, and when we compare women of color
to white, non-Hispanic men, the pay gaps are
even larger. Moms are paid less than dads.
And even when controlling for factors, such
as education and experience, the pay gaps
persist and start early in women’s careers
and contribute to a wealth gap that follows
them throughout their lifetimes. These pay
gaps can be addressed only if workers have
the legal tools necessary to challenge dis-
crimination and when employers are pro-
vided with effective incentives and technical
assistance to comply with the law.
It’s time to take the next step toward
achieving equal pay. We urge you to vote for
the Paycheck Fairness Act and encourage
your colleagues to do the same, taking up
the cause of Lilly Ledbetter and all those
who have fought for equal pay.
Sincerely,
9to5, National Association of Working
Women:
9to5 California; 9to5 Colorado; 9to5 Geor-
gia; 9to5 Wisconsin.
A Better Balance
ACCESS Women’s Health Justice
Advocacy and Training Center
American Federation of Labor-Congress of
Industrial Unions (AFL-CIO):
PA AFL-CIO.
African American Ministers In Action
American Association of University
Women (AAUW):
AAUW of Alabama; AAUW of Alaska;
(AAUW Fairbanks (AK) Branch, AAUW Ko-
diak (AK) Branch); AAUW of Arizona; AAUW
of Arkansas; AAUW of California; AAUW of
Colorado; AAUW of Connecticut; AAUW of
Delaware; AAUW of District of Columbia
(AAUW Washington (DC) Branch, AAUW
Capitol Hill (DC) Branch); AAUW of Florida;
AAUW of Georgia; AAUW of Hawaii; AAUW
of Idaho; AAUW of Illinois; AAUW of Indi-
ana; AAUW of Iowa; AAUW of Kansas; AAUW
of Kentucky; AAUW of Louisiana; AAUW of
Maine.
AAUW of Maryland; AAUW of Massachu-
setts; AAUW of Michigan; AAUW of Min-
nesota; AAUW of Mississippi; AAUW of Mis-
souri; AAUW of Montana; AAUW of Ne-
braska; AAUW of Nevada; AAUW of New
Hampshire; AAUW of New Jersey; AAUW of
New Mexico; AAUW of New York; AAUW of
North Carolina; AAUW of North Dakota;
AAUW of Ohio; AAUW of Oklahoma; AAUW
of Oregon; AAUW of Pennsylvania; AAUW of
Puerto Rico; AAUW of Rhode Island; AAUW
of South Carolina; AAUW of South Dakota;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:32 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.018 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2856 March 27, 2019
AAUW of Tennessee; AAUW of Texas; AAUW
of Utah; AAUW of Vermont; AAUW of Vir-
ginia; AAUW of Washington; AAUW of West
Virginia; AAUW of Wyoming.
American Civil Liberties Union
American Federation of Government Em-
ployees (AFGE), AFL-CIO
American Federation of State, County, and
Municipal Employees (AFSCME)
American Federation of Teachers, AFL-
CIO
American Psychological Association
Americans for Democratic Action
Anti-Defamation League
Atlanta Women for Equality
Bend the Arc: Jewish Action
Bozeman Business & Professional Women
California Employment Lawyers Associa-
tion
California Federation of Business & Profes-
sional Women
Caring Across Generations
Casa de Esperanza: National Latin@ Net-
work for Healthy Families and Communities
Catalyst
Center for Advancement of Public Policy
Center for American Progress
Center for Law and Social Policy
Central Conference of American Rabbis
Citizen Action of New York
Clearinghouse on Women’s Issues
Coalition of Labor Union Women:
California Capital Chapter, Coalition of
Labor Union Women; Chesapeake Bay Chap-
ter, Coalition of Labor Union Women; Chi-
cago Chapter, Coalition of Labor Union
Women; Derby City Chapter, Coalition of
Labor Union Women; Grand Prairie/Arling-
ton Chapter, Coalition of Labor Union
Women; Greater New Jersey Chapter, Coali-
tion of Labor Union Women; Greater Okla-
homa City Chapter, Coalition of Labor Union
Women; Houston Chapter, Coalition of Labor
Union Women; Ohio Chapter, Coalition of
Labor Union Women; Kentucky State Chap-
ter, Coalition of Labor Union Women; Los
Angeles Chapter, Coalition of Labor Union
Women.
Metro Detroit Chapter, Coalition of Labor
Union Women; Michigan Capitol Area Chap-
ter, Coalition of Labor Union Women; Mis-
souri State Chapter, Coalition of Labor
Union Women; Neshaminy Bucks Chapter,
Coalition of Labor Union Women; Philadel-
phia Chapter, Coalition of Labor Union
Women; Rhode Island Chapter, Coalition of
Labor Union Women; San Diego Chapter, Co-
alition of Labor Union Women; South-
western PA Chapter, Coalition of Labor
Union Women; St. Louis Metro Chapter, Coa-
lition of Labor Union Women; Western New
York Chapter, Coalition of Labor Union
Women; Western Virginia Chapter, Coalition
of Labor Union Women.
Congregation of Our Lady of the Good
Shepherd, US Provinces
Connecticut Women’s Education and Legal
Fund (CWEALF)
Disciples Women
Ecumenical Poverty Initiative
Equal Pay Today
Equal Rights Advocates
Feminist Majority Foundation
Friends of the Delaware County Women’s
Commission
Futures Without Violence
Gender Equality Law Center
Girls For Gender Equity
Girls Inc.
Grameen Development Society (GDS)
Graphic Communications Conference/Inter-
national Brotherhood of Teamsters Local
24M/9N
Greater New York Labor Religion Coali-
tion
Hadassah, The Women’s Zionist Organiza-
tion of America, Inc.
Holy Spirit Missionary Sisters—USA—
JPIC
Hope’s Door
Hudson Law PLLC
Indiana Institute for Working Families
Interfaith Worker Justice
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage
Employees
International Association of Machinists
and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW)
International Association of Sheet Metal,
Air, Rail and Transportation Workers
(SMART) Local 20
International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers—3rd District
International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers 29
International Federation of Professional
and Technical Engineers (IFPTE)
International Union, United Automobile,
Aerospace & Agricultural Implement Work-
ers of America (UAW)
JALSA: Jewish Alliance for Law and So-
cial Action
Jewish Women International
Justice for Migrant Women
Lambda Legal
The Leadership Conference on Civil and
Human Rights
League of Women Voters of St. Lawrence
County, NY
Legal Aid At Work
Main Street Alliance
Maine Women’s Lobby
McCree Ndjatou, PLLC
Methodist Federation for Social Action
MomsRising
Mississippi Black Women’s Roundtable
NAACP
National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of
the Good Shepherd
National Asian Pacific American Women’s
Forum (NAPAWF)
National Association of Letter Carriers
(NALC), AFL-CIO
National Center for Transgender Equality
National Committee on Pay Equity
National Council of Jewish Women
National Domestic Workers Alliance
National Education Association
National Employment Law Project
National Employment Lawyers Associa-
tion:
NELA–Georgia; NELA–Houston; NELA–In-
diana; NELA–New Jersey; NELA–New York;
NELA–Pennsylvania; NELA–Texas.
National Federation of Business and Pro-
fessional Women Clubs
National LGBTQ Task Force Action Fund
National Organization for Women:
Anne Arundel County NOW; Arlington
NOW; Baton Rouge NOW; California NOW;
Central Phoenix/Inez Casiano NOW; Char-
lotte NOW; Chester County NOW; Con-
necticut NOW; DC NOW; East End NOW;
Florida NOW; High Desert NOW; Hollywood
NOW; Illinois NOW; Indianapolis NOW; Jack-
sonville NOW; Louisiana NOW.
Maryland NOW; Miami NOW; Michigan
NOW; Minnesota NOW; Montana NOW; Mor-
ris County NOW; North Carolina NOW; Ne-
vada NOW; New Orleans NOW; New York
City NOW; New York State NOW; Northern
New Jersey NOW; Northwest PA NOW; Or-
egon NOW; Pennsylvania NOW; Philadelphia
NOW; Seattle NOW.
Seminole County NOW; South Jersey
NOW—Alice Paul Chapter; Southwest ID
NOW; Southwest PA NOW; Sun Cities/West
Valley NOW; Texas State NOW; Washington
County NOW; Washington NOW; Washtenaw
County NOW; West Pinellas NOW; West Vir-
ginia NOW; Westchester NOW; Will County
NOW; Williamsport NOW; Wisconsin NOW;
Worcester NOW.
National Partnership for Women & Fami-
lies
National Resource Center on Domestic Vi-
olence
National Women’s Law Center
National Women’s Political Caucus
NC Women United
NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Jus-
tice
New York Paid Leave Coalition
New York State Coalition Against Domes-
tic Violence
North Carolina Justice Center
Oxfam America
PathWays PA
People For the American Way
Planned Parenthood Pennsylvania Advo-
cates
PowHer NY
Progressive Maryland
Public Citizen
Restaurant Opportunities Centers United
Service Employees International Union
(SEIU):
SEIU Local 6686.
SiX Action
Southwest Women’s Law Center
Texas Business Women Inc.
Transport Workers Union
U.S. Women and Cuba Collaboration
U.S. Women’s Chamber of Commerce
UltraViolet
Union for Reform Judaism
Unitarian Universalist Women’s Federa-
tion
UNITE HERE! Local 57
United Church of Christ Justice and Wit-
ness Ministries
United Mine Workers of America:
United Mine Workers of America District
Two.
United Nations Association of the United
States
United State of Women
United Steelworkers (USW):
United Steelworkers, District 10; USW
Local 1088; L.U. #1088 USW.
UN Women USNC Metro New York Chapter
UnidosUS
Voter Participation Center
Westminster Presbyterian Church
Women Employed
WNY Women’s Foundation
Women of Reform Judaism
Women’s All Points Bulletin, WAPB
Women’s Voices, Women Vote Action Fund
WomenNC
Women’s Law Project
Women’s Rabbinic Network
YWCA USA:
YWCA Allentown; YWCA Alliance; YWCA
Asheville; YWCA Berkeley/Oakland; YWCA
Billings; YWCA of Binghamton & Broome
County; YWCA Brooklyn; YWCA Cambridge;
YWCA Central Alabama; YWCA Central Mas-
sachusetts; YWCA Clark County; YWCA
Contra Costa/Sacramento; YWCA Corpus
Christi; YWCA Gettysburg & Adams County;
YWCA Great Falls; YWCA Greater Austin;
YWCA Greater Baton Rouge; YWCA Greater
Cincinnati; YWCA Greater Harrisburg;
CYWCA Greater Miami-Dade.
YWCA of Greater Portland; YWCA of
Kauai; YWCA Mahonini Valley; YWCA
McLean County; YWCA Metropolitan Phoe-
nix; YWCA Mount Desert Island; YWCA New
Hampshire; YWCA of the Niagara Frontier;
YWCA Oklahoma City; YWCA Olympia;
YWCA Orange County; YWCA Pasadena-
Foothill Valley; YWCA of the Sauk Valley;
YWCA Seattle/King/Snohomish; YWCA
South Hampton Roads; YWCA Southeastern
Massachusetts; YWCA St. Paul; YWCA of
Syracuse and Onondaga County; YWCA Tri-
County Area; YWCA of the University of Illi-
nois; YWCA of Van Wert County; YWCA of
Watsonville; YWCA Western New York;
YWCA Westmoreland County; YWCA Yak-
ima.
Zonta Club of Greater Queens
Zonta Club of Portland
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Madam Chair, I
also want to acknowledge the hard
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.026 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2857
March 27, 2019
work and leadership of Chairman
SCOTT, Representative DELAURO, and
committee staff on the issue of equal
pay.
This is a bipartisan bill with support
from both parties. I encourage my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
join me in supporting the Paycheck
Fairness Act and take this important
step toward ending gender-based dis-
crimination at work.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, earlier, my colleagues
presented some interesting numbers.
The wage gap is a truly fascinating
subject to study because there are sta-
tistics to show it is vast, and there are
statistics to show, in many cases, it is
virtually nonexistent.
We should note the numbers that
really aren’t up for debate. There are
more working women today than ever
before, 74.9 million. A record 2.8 million
new jobs were created in the past year,
and nearly 60 percent of those jobs are
now filled by women. There are more
women owning businesses and employ-
ing Americans than ever before. That
was no accident. Women are the direct
beneficiaries of strong economic pol-
icy.
They need strong economic policy.
They don’t want more ways to sue peo-
ple. They want more freedom to work
in the jobs they want.
We are here for women, Madam
Chair, not their lawyers.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Minnesota (Ms. OMAR).
Ms. OMAR. Madam Chair, I am hon-
ored to rise today to speak on H.R. 7,
the Paycheck Fairness Act. I am proud
to be part of a Congress that is finally
taking action to close the gender pay
gap. After so many years of inaction on
this issue when our Republican col-
leagues were in the majority, I think it
is fair to say that it is about time.
It is hard to imagine that, in this day
and age, women could be paid less than
a man for doing the same job. But it
happens, and it happens often. Statis-
tics show that pay disparity isn’t a
thing of the past; it is happening
today. It isn’t just holding women
back; it is amplifying racial inequal-
ities across the country.
We often hear the statistics that say
women make 80 cents to every dollar
that is paid to a man, but those figures
are often worse for women of color.
Black women are making only 61 cents
on the dollar. For Latina women, that
is 53 cents. For Native American
women, it is 58 cents. Clearly, the pay
gap is compounded by a racial gap.
It should be obvious to all of us that
this problem extends beyond the work-
place.
Madam Chair, you see the impact ev-
erywhere you look around our society.
Women of color are less likely to have
healthcare coverage. They are more
likely to experience hunger. They are
less likely to own a home or be fully
prepared for retirement.
b 1445
At the end of the day, those pennies
on the dollar add up, and that loss of
income is putting women of color at a
serious disadvantage.
The Paycheck Fairness Act will take
aggressive action to remedy these in-
equalities and tear down the economic
barriers that women of color face. It
will do that, in part, by ensuring the
Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission has the information it needs to
detect pay discrimination and to iden-
tify those additional cross-section bi-
ases.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield the gentlewoman from
Minnesota an additional 30 seconds.
Ms. OMAR. Madam Chair, I am proud
to introduce an amendment with my
colleague, Representative BEYER from
Virginia, that will ensure that the
major employers are required to report
that information to that commission.
That will go a long way to finally end-
ing the systemic barriers that women
and women of color face in this coun-
try.
I thank Chair SCOTT and Chair
DELAURO. I am really excited to be
part of this change-making Congress.
I include in the RECORD a letter from
the NAACP in support of this legisla-
tion.
WASHINGTON BUREAU, NATIONAL AS-
SOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF COLORED PEOPLE,
Washington, DC, March 25, 2019.
Re: NAACP Strong support for the imme-
diate passage of H.R. 7, the Paycheck
Fairness Act.
The Honorable,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
NAACP, our nation’s oldest, largest and
most widely-recognized grassroots-based
civil rights organization, I strongly urge you
to support and vote in favor of H.R. 7, the
Paycheck Fairness Act. This critical legisla-
tion would update and strengthen the Equal
Pay Act of 1963, which mandated that em-
ployers pay equal wages to men and women
who perform substantially the same work.
The Paycheck Fairness Act closes loopholes
in the Equal Pay Act which have diluted its
effectiveness in combating unfair and un-
equal pay. While the Equal Pay Act has
helped to narrow the wage gap between men
and women in our workforce, significant dis-
parities remain and must be addressed.
Especially in today’s economy, more
women work outside of the home and their
paycheck is a necessary part of their house-
holds’ resources. Yet all too often women are
forced to raise their families on incomes
lower than that of male colleagues per-
forming the same jobs. According to 2018
data, women in the United States are typi-
cally paid 80 cents for every dollar paid to
men. The median annual pay for a woman
who holds a full-time, year-round job is
$41,977 while the median annual pay for a
man who holds a full-time, year-round job is
$52,146—a difference of $10,169 per year. The
statistics are even worse for women of color.
African-American women make only 61
cents, and Hispanic women only 53 cents, for
every dollar earned by white, non-Hispanic
men. These gaps translate into a loss of al-
most $24,000 a year for African-American
women and almost $28,500 annually for His-
panic women.
The Paycheck Fairness Act is a respon-
sible, steady yet aggressive bill. It will help
remedy this inequity and close this unac-
ceptable gap. In short, the legislation will
protect women and families across America
by: protecting against retaliation for dis-
cussing salaries with colleagues; prohibiting
employers from screening job applicants
based on their salary history or requiring
salary history during the interview and hir-
ing process; requiring employers to prove
that pay disparities exist for legitimate, job-
related reasons; providing plaintiffs who file
sex-based wage discrimination claims under
the Equal Pay Act with the same remedies
as are available to plaintiffs who file race- or
ethnicity-based wage discrimination claims
under the 1964 Civil Rights Act; removing ob-
stacles in the Equal Pay Act to facilitate
plaintiffs’ participation in class action law-
suits that challenge systemic pay discrimi-
nation; and creating a negotiation skills
training program for women and girls.
I again urge you to do all you can to see
that this important legislation is enacted as
quickly as possible so that women can begin
to have some parity for a day’s work. This in
turn will help hard working American
women, their children and their families
gain the economic stability they deserve.
Please support the Paycheck Fairness Act
and work to eliminate this unacceptable gap
in pay.
Sincerely,
HILARY O. SHELTON,
Director, NAACP
Washington Bureau
& Senior Vice Presi-
dent for Policy and
Advocacy.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chairman, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. BEYER).
Mr. BEYER. Madam Chair, I am a
businessman. I am also the father of
three daughters.
I have managed people and managed
compensation plans for more than 40
years, and I know that we cannot man-
age what we do not measure. I agree
with my friend, the Republican con-
gresswoman from New York, that men
and women should be paid equally for
equal work. This should be a bedrock
principle of our democracy.
But if we don’t gather the data, how
will we ever know if there is paycheck
fairness?
My middle daughter is a computer
programmer—well paid. She was dis-
mayed to learn around Christmastime
that her male counterparts doing ex-
actly the same work were making more
money.
It is a fiction that this will be a bur-
den on employers with more than 100
employees. Absolutely none of these
employers have not digitized their pay-
check process decades ago. The collec-
tion of this data requires a keystroke;
that is all. All the data, already there,
already gathered.
Pay transparency is the most power-
ful way to achieve paycheck fairness.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:32 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.050 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2858 March 27, 2019
Men and women together are out-
raged when they see actual measured
pay unfairness. But where incomes are
most fair, where they are most trans-
parent—in the military and in govern-
ment—paycheck inequity is small or
even nonexistent.
This is not a bill for lawyers. This is
a bill for business owners and business
managers who want to do the right
thing and now will have the data to do
that right thing.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I continue to reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Chair, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from the District of Columbia (Ms.
NORTON).
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Chair, I thank my
friend for yielding.
I have left the chair, where I had
been presiding, to speak on my bill,
which is included in H.R. 7. My bill is
Pay Equity for All, to bar an employer
from asking about a person’s prior pay.
Mr. Chair, I want to thank all of you
who have led this bill to where we are
today. I also am very much for the bill
in which my bill is included, H.R. 7,
which includes class actions, for exam-
ple, the clarification for which has
been most needed.
Expanding this bill is personal for
me. I was the first woman to chair the
Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission and enforce the Equal Pay Act,
expanding it during my term at the
commission.
I, therefore, am very grateful to my
good friend ROSA DELAURO, a great
champion of equal pay, for including
my Pay Equity for All Act in this bill.
Mr. Speaker, many employers may
not recognize that they are discrimi-
nating against women because they
may not intentionally do so. But set-
ting wages based on salary history is
routinely done in the workplace, per-
haps even by some in the Congress, and
it reinforces the wage gap and may be
the most important reason for the per-
sistence of the wage gap that we have
been unable to unlock.
What it means is that historically
disadvantaged groups—women and mi-
norities in particular—often start their
careers with unfair and artificially low
wages compared to their White male
counterparts. This then gets
imbedded—this discrimination—and
compounded throughout their careers,
so they never catch up with their male
counterparts.
Job offers ought to be based on an ap-
plicant’s skill and merit, not past sal-
ary or salary history.
My bill keeps an employer from ask-
ing applicants for their salary history
or their salary in the last job during
the interview process or as a condition
of employment.
One study has shown, if you don’t ask
this question, wages are set at 9 per-
cent higher. Therefore, this bill is a
very important component of bridging
the wage gap.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentleman for yielding, the
chairman of the full committee, I ac-
knowledge the ranking member, and
indicate that, as all of us who have
come to the floor, this is an enor-
mously historic day.
For those of us who know the history
of equal pay for women in America,
this is a journey long in coming and
continuing—first with the Equal Pay
Act of some 50-plus years ago; then
with the Lilly Ledbetter Act 10 years
ago; and now with this historic legisla-
tion, the Paycheck Fairness Act—to
make good on the idea that women
should not be getting less than their
male counterparts: African American
women earning 61 percent, Latina
women earning 53 percent, and Hawai-
ian and Pacific Islanders earning 62
percent versus White, non-Hispanic
men.
The most important part of this leg-
islation is the protection given to
women today, requiring employers to
prove that pay disparities exist for le-
gitimate, job-related reasons other
than sex. It bans retaliation against
workers who wish to discuss their
wages. It removes obstacles in the
Equal Pay Act to allow workers to par-
ticipate in class-action lawsuits and
improves the Department of Labor
tools for enforcing the Equal Pay Act.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield the gentlewoman from
Texas an additional 30 seconds.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, it
is important to note that no one, as a
woman, can ask you what your pre-
vious pay was—how denigrating that
is—and use it as a basis to not pay you
what you really deserve in this new po-
sition.
Also, women are heads of household;
they deserve the ability to provide for
their family.
Madam Chair, this is not a lawsuit
bill. This is an opportunity bill. This is
a fairness bill. This is the ability to go
into court to receive justice. And, yes,
as part of justice, class-action lawsuits
can work.
I believe that the Paycheck Fairness
Act should be passed, promptly going
to the other body, and be signed by the
President of the United States, because
women, too, have the responsibilities
to serve and provide for their family.
This is an historic piece of legisla-
tion. I thank ROSA DELAURO.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. NADLER),
the chair of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, in 1963, when the
Equal Pay Act was signed into law,
women earned 59 cents on the dollar
compared to men.
In the 56 years since, that gap has
only closed by 21 cents. Women still
make only 80 cents on the dollar com-
pared to their male counterparts and
earn less than men in nearly every sin-
gle occupation.
The pay gap is even more extreme for
women of color. Over the course of an
entire career, that gap results in
women losing millions of dollars in
earnings compared to their male coun-
terparts.
In today’s economy, in which women
make up more than half of the work-
force and are the sole or co-bread-
winner in half of American families,
that is simply unacceptable.
Being paid fairly for your work is a
fundamental issue of fairness and free-
dom. Pay disparity can limit women’s
career choices and their financial inde-
pendence, but equal pay enables women
to save for retirement, to build careers,
to buy homes, and to support their
families.
Today, I am proud to vote for the
Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation I
have cosponsored in every Congress
since 1997.
This legislation gets us closer, at
last, to fulfilling the promise of equal
pay for equal work and finally ensuring
that women have the ability to fight
back against wage discrimination and
close the wage gap.
I wish to thank Chairman SCOTT for
including language in this bill that
mirrors legislation I introduced with
Representative ELEANOR HOLMES NOR-
TON to address how employers use sal-
ary history.
Many women and minorities start
their careers with unfair and artifi-
cially low salaries compared to their
White male counterparts. That discrep-
ancy can be compounded from job to
job, when employers rely heavily on
salary history in compensation pack-
ages.
This change will help ensure that
women’s pay is based on their merit
and not on the past discrimination of
other employers.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this bill and to finish the
work of closing the wage gap.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chairman, I yield myself such time as
I may consume.
Madam Chair, I have worked for most
of my life. I entered the workforce as a
young woman, not because I wanted to
but because I had to. I knew the burden
of poverty well. If I didn’t work to sup-
port myself, if I didn’t contribute to
my family income, we would go hun-
gry.
Well, I have been enormously blessed
to have gone from working for survival
to working for pleasure and, I hope, a
greater purpose. I know there are mil-
lions of women of all ages in this coun-
try today who must work to survive,
just as I did.
When I entered the workforce, equal
pay for equal work—equal pay for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.052 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2859
March 27, 2019
women—was a demand, but not yet the
law. Today, it is the law. The Equal
Pay Act and the Civil Rights Act are
clear that pay discrimination is wrong,
it is unacceptable, and it is illegal.
Managers who discriminate on the
basis of sex are breaking at least two
Federal laws, and they have no ex-
cuses.
No one should operate under the as-
sumption that women have reached
their full potential in the workplace.
Over the years, I have experienced
sexism and misogyny. I have seen un-
fairness. I have seen, also, remarkable
advancement, and I have remained dis-
appointed in many ways.
So, for the sake of all the working
women I have known and know now,
women who work because they choose
to and women who work because they
must, I looked for anything in this leg-
islation worthy of their support. I
found that this bill wasn’t written for
their sake at all.
This bill is a cynical political ploy
that borders on paternalism. There is
not a single new or strengthened legal
protection against pay discrimination
for working women in H.R. 7.
b 1500
This bill is entirely designed for trial
lawyers, and Democrats must think
women are too dumb to understand
what they have done.
It is an insult to women everywhere
that Democrats are passing this bill off
as something good for them. This bill
is like every other cheap product in
drugstores and supermarkets across
America that has been covered in pink
packaging, marketed as the solution
women have been waiting for, and sold
for twice what it is worth.
We know women are smarter than
that. Democrats, who have assumed
that women will always follow their
agenda, realize they are running out of
time, and that is why they have
stooped to a stunt like H.R. 7.
Women in America are embracing
their power and potential in ways they
never have before. I am not talking
about the record number of women in
Congress. I am talking about the his-
toric, groundbreaking number of
women in the workforce.
More than half of the record number
of new jobs created in the past year
have gone to women. More women are
stepping up to start and lead busi-
nesses, to be job creators themselves,
than ever before.
Women need Representatives in
Washington who will cheer for them,
not their rich lawyers. If Democrats
want to champion a bill to make life
easier for trial lawyers, that is their
choice, but they should be honest
about it and, for once, bypass the op-
portunity to talk down to hardworking
women everywhere.
For the women who work today be-
cause they must, I am glad they have
the legal protections I didn’t when I
was in their shoes. It was women like
them who paved the way for suffrage a
century ago. It was women like them
who made equal pay for equal work the
law of the land, and it is women like
them, today and tomorrow, who will
continue to clarify, to sharpen, and to
exemplify what ‘‘a more perfect Union’’
was always supposed to look like. This
House should follow their lead.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I would like to inquire how
much time I have left.
The CHAIR. The gentleman has 2
minutes remaining.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I yield myself the balance of my
time.
Madam Chair, I just want to make a
couple of closing comments.
We have heard speaker after speaker
complain that, if this bill passes, law-
yers will get paid. Most lawyers, in
fact, only get paid when they have a
winning case; so if they want lawyers
to stop getting paid, they could do this
if we would stop discriminating.
The only way to enforce the laws
against discrimination is to hire a law-
yer and go to court, and that is when
lawyers get paid. Stop the discrimina-
tion; stop the lawyers from getting
paid.
There is also a suggestion that we
ought to limit the amount of money
that can be paid to lawyers. The fact is
that no group supporting women sup-
port that limitation because the limi-
tation sometimes can be so low that
you can’t hire a lawyer. It is only sup-
ported by groups supporting those rep-
resenting people accused of discrimina-
tion.
It is also one-sided. There is no pro-
posal to limit the amount of money
that the guilty can pay their lawyers.
A comment was made about unlim-
ited damages. The damages, in fact, in
this bill are the same as you can get
under race and religious discrimina-
tion, and the purpose of the bill is to
conform the process for gender dis-
crimination to the process for other
forms of discrimination like race and
religion.
The EEOC data, as my colleague
from Virginia pointed out, is available,
and if you do not report this data, you
could have gross disparities. You could
pay all the men one thing and all the
women less, and until that is reported,
nobody might notice.
Madam Chair, there are pay gaps.
Discrimination still exists, and this
legislation is one step in closing that
pay gap. We need to pass the legisla-
tion.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, our Repub-
lican colleagues say the Paycheck Fairness
Act is unnecessary, a boom for trial attorneys
and a burden on employers, but once again
the latest numbers tell a different story. Amer-
ican women continue to lag far behind fair pay
for equal work.
The latest numbers from the U.S. Census
Bureau once again revealed that American
women working full-time, year-round, are typi-
cally paid only 80 cents for every dollar paid
to their male counterparts. The pay gaps are
even more severe for women of color: 61
cents for African American women and 53
cents for Latina women.
Women take home less money than they
have rightfully earned in every industry, no
matter what they do, how high their level of
education, or where they are from.
Not only is this a matter of basic equality,
economic justice and freedom, it also com-
pounds and is a significant issue impacting
women’s retirement security.
The Paycheck Fairness Act provides a long-
overdue remedy to the 1963 Equal Pay Act. It
will give women the tools needed to success-
fully challenge pay discrimination and to
incentivize employers to comply with the law.
I urge all my colleagues to support its pas-
sage.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Chair, I
rise today to voice my support for H.R. 7, the
Paycheck Fairness Act. The purpose of this
legislation is simple: ensuring all women are
rewarded with equal pay for equal work. The
landmark Equal Pay Act of 1963 has helped
us to achieve progress in this crucial policy
area, but the Equal Pay Act, enacted over a
half-century ago, is out of date and out of
touch with today’s business world. The Pay-
check Fairness Act makes necessary and
common-sense improvements to this historic
law so that we can take another step toward
eradicating gender-based wage discrimination.
Most importantly, this bill seeks to make
equal pay a reality for women of color. Race
and gender wage gaps harm not just the eco-
nomic security of women but also of their fam-
ilies. A woman of color who works full time,
year round, can lose more than $1 million in
income over a 40-year career because of the
wage gap. Currently, black women earn $0.60
for every dollar earned by their white male
counterparts. Native American women earn
$0.57 to every dollar, and Latina women earn
$0.54. Meanwhile, white women and Asian
women earn $0.79 and $0.87, respectively.
This wage gap has not improved for years and
continues to squeeze women’s pocketbooks,
erode their earning potential, and deprive
them of the means to improve their own lives
and support their families.
It is long past time to update the Equal Pay
Act to give working women the legal tools they
need to challenge sex-based pay discrimina-
tion and to encourage employers to comply
with the law. The Paycheck Fairness Act sets
forth a path toward achieving those goals.
I urge members of the House to pass this
critical legislation.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Madam Chair, I
rise today in support of H.R. 7, the Paycheck
Fairness Act—a modest, common-sense solu-
tion to the problem of pay inequity.
Equal pay for equal work is not only a core
value of mine and others—it’s the law. Full im-
plementation of that principle, however, re-
mains elusive.
The Paycheck Fairness Act, which was first
introduced in 1997 and passed the House of
Representatives with bipartisan support in
2009, is a serious initiative to realize the noble
goal of true equality.
Among its provisions, this legislation would:
Encourage businesses to rely on information
about the market value of a position, industry
standards, the duties of the job, and their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.053 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2860 March 27, 2019
budgets in order to set salaries, by prohibiting
reliance on the prior salary history of prospec-
tive employees.
Allow workers to share their personal salary
information free from retaliation, with common-
sense exceptions for FIR professionals.
Improve research on the gender pay gap by
instructing Department of Labor (DOL) to con-
duct studies and review available research
and data to provide information on how to
identify, correct, and eliminate illegal wage dis-
parities.
Assist the DOL in uncovering wage discrimi-
nation by requiring the collection of wage data
from federal contractors, and direct the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC)
to conduct a survey of available wage informa-
tion and create a system of wage data collec-
tion.
Support small businesses with technical as-
sistance by providing support to all businesses
to help them with their equal pay practices.
Momentum has continued to build, with
more than 260 diverse organizations signing a
letter in support of the bill, including the U.S.
Women’s Chamber of Commerce, which rep-
resents business associations and groups
across the country, and the Main Street Alli-
ance, a national network of small business
owners.
Madam Chair, according to the National
Partnership for Women and Families, if the
disparity in median annual earnings for women
and men working full-time, year-round were
closed, women would have over $10,000 more
in earnings each year. For millennial women,
closing this gender wage gap could add up to
more than $1,000,000 in lost income over a
career.
This not only impacts these women im-
mensely, but also directly impacts those with
families. Over 62 percent of two-parent, mar-
ried households with children, have both par-
ents employed, which means these families
would add $10,000 more to their family’s total
earnings per year.
Madam Chair, this bill makes good eco-
nomic sense. Companies are recognizing the
benefits and the power of women’s increased
economic participation, and some have al-
ready enacted policies similar to those out-
lined in the Paycheck Fairness Act. Compa-
nies like Staples and Amazon have ended in-
quiries into job applicants’ salary histories to
avoid importing prior pay discrimination into
their wage setting process. These moves are
directly aligned with the Paycheck Fairness
Act’s provision banning reliance on salary his-
tory in determining future pay, so that prior
pay discrimination doesn’t follow workers from
job to job.
We have also seen a movement, spear-
headed by investors, to motivate companies to
disclose their pay data. After a gender pay
shareholder proposal from the investment
management firm Arjuna Capital, Citigroup
publicly released the results of its pay equity
review in 2018 covering a third of its global
workforce, and another, more comprehensive
review, in 2019. This data release went even
further than the Paycheck Fairness Act’s pro-
visions, which would only require that compa-
nies give this summary information to the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
(EEOC), not the public.
According to a 2017 report from the Institute
for Women’s Policy Research, the poverty rate
for all working women would be cut in half if
women were paid the same as men. The
same study indicates the U.S. economy would
have produced an additional $512.6 billion in
income if women had received equal pay for
equal work. With 64 percent of mothers being
the primary, sole, or co-breadwinners of their
families, equal pay for women means Amer-
ica’s families are better off.
Ensuring women have equal pay would
have a significant positive impact on our fami-
lies and our economy and I urge my col-
leagues to support this legislation.
The CHAIR. All time for general de-
bate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule.
In lieu of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on Education and
Labor, printed in the bill, it shall be in
order to consider as an original bill for
the purpose of amendment under the 5-
minute rule an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the
text of Rules Committee Print 116–8
modified by the amendment printed in
part A of House Report 116–19. That
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be considered as read.
The text of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute is as follows:
H.R. 7
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Paycheck Fair-
ness Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Women have entered the workforce in
record numbers over the past 50 years.
(2) Despite the enactment of the Equal Pay
Act of 1963, many women continue to earn sig-
nificantly lower pay than men for equal work.
These pay disparities exist in both the private
and governmental sectors.
(3) In many instances, the pay disparities can
only be due to continued intentional discrimina-
tion or the lingering effects of past discrimina-
tion. After controlling for educational attain-
ment, occupation, industry, union status, race,
ethnicity, and labor force experience roughly 40
percent of the pay gap remains unexplained.
(4) The existence of such pay disparities—
(A) depresses the wages of working families
who rely on the wages of all members of the
family to make ends meet;
(B) undermines women’s retirement security,
which is often based on earnings while in the
workforce;
(C) prevents women from realizing their full
economic potential, particularly in terms of
labor force participation and attachment;
(D) has been spread and perpetuated, through
commerce and the channels and instrumental-
ities of commerce, among the workers of the sev-
eral States;
(E) burdens commerce and the free flow of
goods in commerce;
(F) constitutes an unfair method of competi-
tion in commerce;
(G) tends to cause labor disputes, as evidenced
by the tens of thousands of charges filed with
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
against employers between 2010 and 2016;
(H) interferes with the orderly and fair mar-
keting of goods in commerce; and
(I) in many instances, may deprive workers of
equal protection on the basis of sex in violation
of the 5th and 14th Amendments to the Con-
stitution.
(5)(A) Artificial barriers to the elimination of
discrimination in the payment of wages on the
basis of sex continue to exist decades after the
enactment of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.) and the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000a et seq.).
(B) These barriers have resulted, in signifi-
cant part, because the Equal Pay Act of 1963
has not worked as Congress originally intended.
Improvements and modifications to the law are
necessary to ensure that the Act provides effec-
tive protection to those subject to pay discrimi-
nation on the basis of their sex.
(C) Elimination of such barriers would have
positive effects, including—
(i) providing a solution to problems in the
economy created by unfair pay disparities;
(ii) substantially reducing the number of
working women earning unfairly low wages,
thereby reducing the dependence on public as-
sistance;
(iii) promoting stable families by enabling all
family members to earn a fair rate of pay;
(iv) remedying the effects of past discrimina-
tion on the basis of sex and ensuring that in the
future workers are afforded equal protection on
the basis of sex; and
(v) ensuring equal protection pursuant to
Congress’ power to enforce the 5th and 14th
Amendments to the Constitution.
(6) The Department of Labor and the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission carry out
functions to help ensure that women receive
equal pay for equal work.
(7) The Department of Labor is responsible
for—
(A) collecting and making publicly available
information about women’s pay;
(B) ensuring that companies receiving Federal
contracts comply with anti-discrimination af-
firmative action requirements of Executive Order
11246 (relating to equal employment oppor-
tunity);
(C) disseminating information about women’s
rights in the workplace;
(D) helping women who have been victims of
pay discrimination obtain a remedy; and
(E) investigating and prosecuting systemic
gender based pay discrimination involving gov-
ernment contractors.
(8) The Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission is the primary enforcement agency for
claims made under the Equal Pay Act of 1963,
and issues regulations and guidance on appro-
priate interpretations of the law.
(9) Vigorous implementation by the Depart-
ment of Labor and the Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission, increased information as
a result of the amendments made by this Act,
wage data, and more effective remedies, will en-
sure that women are better able to recognize and
enforce their rights.
(10) Certain employers have already made
great strides in eradicating unfair pay dispari-
ties in the workplace and their achievements
should be recognized.
SEC. 3. ENHANCED ENFORCEMENT OF EQUAL PAY
REQUIREMENTS.
(a) BONA FIDE FACTOR DEFENSE AND MODI-
FICATION OF SAME ESTABLISHMENT REQUIRE-
MENT.—Section 6(d)(1) of the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(d)(1)) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘No employer having’’ and in-
serting ‘‘(A) No employer having’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘any other factor other than
sex’’ and inserting ‘‘a bona fide factor other
than sex, such as education, training, or experi-
ence’’; and
(3) by inserting at the end the following:
‘‘(B) The bona fide factor defense described in
subparagraph (A)(iv) shall apply only if the em-
ployer demonstrates that such factor (i) is not
based upon or derived from a sex-based differen-
tial in compensation; (ii) is job-related with re-
spect to the position in question; (iii) is con-
sistent with business necessity; and (iv) ac-
counts for the entire differential in compensa-
tion at issue. Such defense shall not apply
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.022 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2861
March 27, 2019
where the employee demonstrates that an alter-
native employment practice exists that would
serve the same business purpose without pro-
ducing such differential and that the employer
has refused to adopt such alternative practice.
‘‘(C) For purposes of subparagraph (A), em-
ployees shall be deemed to work in the same es-
tablishment if the employees work for the same
employer at workplaces located in the same
county or similar political subdivision of a
State. The preceding sentence shall not be con-
strued as limiting broader applications of the
term ‘establishment’ consistent with rules pre-
scribed or guidance issued by the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission.’’.
(b) NONRETALIATION PROVISION.—Section 15 of
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C.
215) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘employee
has filed’’ and all that follows and inserting
‘‘employee—
‘‘(A) has made a charge or filed any complaint
or instituted or caused to be instituted any in-
vestigation, proceeding, hearing, or action
under or related to this Act, including an inves-
tigation conducted by the employer, or has testi-
fied or is planning to testify or has assisted or
participated in any manner in any such inves-
tigation, proceeding, hearing or action, or has
served or is planning to serve on an industry
committee; or
‘‘(B) has inquired about, discussed, or dis-
closed the wages of the employee or another em-
ployee;’’;
(B) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) to require an employee to sign a contract
or waiver that would prohibit the employee from
disclosing information about the employee’s
wages.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) Subsection (a)(3)(B) shall not apply to in-
stances in which an employee who has access to
the wage information of other employees as a
part of such employee’s essential job functions
discloses the wages of such other employees to
individuals who do not otherwise have access to
such information, unless such disclosure is in
response to a complaint or charge or in further-
ance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or
action under section 6(d), including an inves-
tigation conducted by the employer. Nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to limit the
rights of an employee provided under any other
provision of law.’’.
(c) ENHANCED PENALTIES.—Section 16(b) of the
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C.
216(b)) is amended—
(1) by inserting after the first sentence the fol-
lowing: ‘‘Any employer who violates section 6(d)
shall additionally be liable for such compen-
satory damages, or, where the employee dem-
onstrates that the employer acted with malice or
reckless indifference, punitive damages as may
be appropriate, except that the United States
shall not be liable for punitive damages.’’;
(2) in the sentence beginning ‘‘An action to’’,
by striking ‘‘the preceding sentences’’ and in-
serting ‘‘any of the preceding sentences of this
subsection’’;
(3) in the sentence beginning ‘‘No employees
shall’’, by striking ‘‘No employees’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Except with respect to class actions
brought to enforce section 6(d), no employee’’;
(4) by inserting after the sentence referred to
in paragraph (3), the following: ‘‘Notwith-
standing any other provision of Federal law,
any action brought to enforce section 6(d) may
be maintained as a class action as provided by
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.’’; and
(5) in the sentence beginning ‘‘The court in’’—
(A) by striking ‘‘in such action’’ and inserting
‘‘in any action brought to recover the liability
prescribed in any of the preceding sentences of
this subsection’’; and
(B) by inserting before the period the fol-
lowing: ‘‘, including expert fees’’.
(d) ACTION BY SECRETARY.—Section 16(c) of
the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C.
216(c)) is amended—
(1) in the first sentence—
(A) by inserting ‘‘or, in the case of a violation
of section 6(d), additional compensatory or pu-
nitive damages, as described in subsection (b),’’
before ‘‘and the agreement’’; and
(B) by inserting before the period the fol-
lowing: ‘‘, or such compensatory or punitive
damages, as appropriate’’;
(2) in the second sentence, by inserting before
the period the following: ‘‘and, in the case of a
violation of section 6(d), additional compen-
satory or punitive damages, as described in sub-
section (b)’’;
(3) in the third sentence, by striking ‘‘the first
sentence’’ and inserting ‘‘the first or second sen-
tence’’; and
(4) in the sixth sentence—
(A) by striking ‘‘commenced in the case’’ and
inserting ‘‘commenced—
‘‘(1) in the case’’;
(B) by striking the period and inserting ‘‘;
or’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) in the case of a class action brought to
enforce section 6(d), on the date on which the
individual becomes a party plaintiff to the class
action.’’.
SEC. 4. TRAINING.
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commis-
sion and the Office of Federal Contract Compli-
ance Programs, subject to the availability of
funds appropriated under section 11, shall pro-
vide training to Commission employees and af-
fected individuals and entities on matters in-
volving discrimination in the payment of wages.
SEC. 5. NEGOTIATION SKILLS TRAINING.
(a) PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Labor,
after consultation with the Secretary of Edu-
cation, is authorized to establish and carry out
a grant program.
(2) GRANTS.—In carrying out the program, the
Secretary of Labor may make grants on a com-
petitive basis to eligible entities to carry out ne-
gotiation skills training programs for the pur-
poses of addressing pay disparities, including
through outreach to women and girls.
(3) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—To be eligible to re-
ceive a grant under this subsection, an entity
shall be a public agency, such as a State, a local
government in a metropolitan statistical area (as
defined by the Office of Management and Budg-
et), a State educational agency, or a local edu-
cational agency, a private nonprofit organiza-
tion, or a community-based organization.
(4) APPLICATION.—To be eligible to receive a
grant under this subsection, an entity shall sub-
mit an application to the Secretary of Labor at
such time, in such manner, and containing such
information as the Secretary of Labor may re-
quire.
(5) USE OF FUNDS.—An entity that receives a
grant under this subsection shall use the funds
made available through the grant to carry out
an effective negotiation skills training program
for the purposes described in paragraph (2).
(b) INCORPORATING TRAINING INTO EXISTING
PROGRAMS.—The Secretary of Labor and the
Secretary of Education shall issue regulations or
policy guidance that provides for integrating the
negotiation skills training, to the extent prac-
ticable, into programs authorized under—
(1) in the case of the Secretary of Education,
the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.), the Carl D. Perkins
Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20
U.S.C. 2301 et seq.), the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.), and other programs
carried out by the Department of Education
that the Secretary of Education determines to be
appropriate; and
(2) in the case of the Secretary of Labor, the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29
U.S.C. 3101 et seq.), and other programs carried
out by the Department of Labor that the Sec-
retary of Labor determines to be appropriate.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months after
the date of enactment of this Act, and annually
thereafter, the Secretary of Labor, in consulta-
tion with the Secretary of Education, shall pre-
pare and submit to Congress a report describing
the activities conducted under this section and
evaluating the effectiveness of such activities in
achieving the purposes of this section.
SEC. 6. RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND OUTREACH.
Not later than 18 months after the date of en-
actment of this Act, and periodically thereafter,
the Secretary of Labor shall conduct studies and
provide information to employers, labor organi-
zations, and the general public concerning the
means available to eliminate pay disparities be-
tween men and women, including—
(1) conducting and promoting research to de-
velop the means to correct expeditiously the con-
ditions leading to the pay disparities;
(2) publishing and otherwise making available
to employers, labor organizations, professional
associations, educational institutions, the
media, and the general public the findings re-
sulting from studies and other materials, relat-
ing to eliminating the pay disparities;
(3) sponsoring and assisting State, local, and
community informational and educational pro-
grams;
(4) providing information to employers, labor
organizations, professional associations, and
other interested persons on the means of elimi-
nating the pay disparities; and
(5) recognizing and promoting the achieve-
ments of employers, labor organizations, and
professional associations that have worked to
eliminate the pay disparities.
SEC. 7. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL
AWARD FOR PAY EQUITY IN THE
WORKPLACE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established the Sec-
retary of Labor’s National Award for Pay Eq-
uity in the Workplace, which shall be awarded,
on an annual basis, to an employer to encour-
age proactive efforts to comply with section 6(d)
of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29
U.S.C. 206(d)), as amended by this Act.
(b) CRITERIA FOR QUALIFICATION.—The Sec-
retary of Labor shall set criteria for receipt of
the award, including a requirement that an em-
ployer has made substantial effort to eliminate
pay disparities between men and women, and
deserves special recognition as a consequence of
such effort. The Secretary shall establish proce-
dures for the application and presentation of
the award.
(c) BUSINESS.—In this section, the term ‘‘em-
ployer’’ includes—
(1)(A) a corporation, including a nonprofit
corporation;
(B) a partnership;
(C) a professional association;
(D) a labor organization; and
(E) a business entity similar to an entity de-
scribed in any of subparagraphs (A) through
(D);
(2) an entity carrying out an education refer-
ral program, a training program, such as an ap-
prenticeship or management training program,
or a similar program; and
(3) an entity carrying out a joint program,
formed by a combination of any entities de-
scribed in paragraph (1) or (2).
SEC. 8. COLLECTION OF PAY INFORMATION BY
THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPOR-
TUNITY COMMISSION.
Section 709 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42
U.S.C. 2000e–8) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(f)(1) Not later than 18 months after the date
of enactment of this subsection, the Commission
shall provide for the collection from employers
of compensation data and other employment-re-
lated data (including hiring, termination, and
promotion data) disaggregated by the sex, race,
and ethnic identity of employees.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.024 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2862 March 27, 2019
‘‘(2) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Com-
mission shall have as its primary consideration
the most effective and efficient means for en-
hancing the enforcement of Federal laws pro-
hibiting pay discrimination. For this purpose,
the Commission shall consider factors including
the imposition of burdens on employers, the fre-
quency of required reports (including the size of
employers required to prepare reports), appro-
priate protections for maintaining data con-
fidentiality, and the most effective format to re-
port such data.
‘‘(3)(A) For each 12-month reporting period
for an employer, the compensation data col-
lected under paragraph (1) shall include, for
each range of taxable compensation described in
subparagraph (B), disaggregated by the cat-
egories described in subparagraph (E)—
‘‘(i) the number of employees of the employer
who earn taxable compensation in an amount
that falls within such taxable compensation
range; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of hours worked by
such employees.
‘‘(B) Subject to adjustment under subpara-
graph (C), the taxable compensation ranges de-
scribed in this subparagraph are as follows:
‘‘(i) Not more than $19,239.
‘‘(ii) Not less than $19,240 and not more than
$24,439.
‘‘(iii) Not less than $24,440 and not more than
$30,679.
‘‘(iv) Not less than $30,680 and not more than
$38,999.
‘‘(v) Not less than $39,000 and not more than
$49,919.
‘‘(vi) Not less than $49,920 and not more than
$62,919.
‘‘(vii) Not less than $62,920 and not more than
$80,079.
‘‘(viii) Not less than $80,080 and not more than
$101,919.
‘‘(ix) Not less than $101,920 and not more than
$128,959.
‘‘(x) Not less than $128,960 and not more than
$163,799.
‘‘(xi) Not less than $163,800 and not more than
$207,999.
‘‘(xii) Not less than $208,000.
‘‘(C) The Commission may adjust the taxable
compensation ranges under subparagraph (B)—
‘‘(i) if the Commission determines that such
adjustment is necessary to enhance enforcement
of Federal laws prohibiting pay discrimination;
or
‘‘(ii) for inflation, in consultation with the
Bureau of Labor Statistics.
‘‘(D) In collecting data described in subpara-
graph (A)(ii), the Commission shall provide that,
with respect to an employee who the employer is
not required to compensate for overtime employ-
ment under section 7 of the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 207), an employer
may report—
‘‘(i) in the case of a full-time employee, that
such employee works 40 hours per week, and in
the case of a part-time employee, that such em-
ployee works 20 hours per week; or
‘‘(ii) the actual number of hours worked by
such employee.
‘‘(E) The categories described in this subpara-
graph shall be determined by the Commission
and shall include—
‘‘(i) race;
‘‘(ii) ethnic identity;
‘‘(iii) sex; and
‘‘(iv) job categories, including the job cat-
egories described in the instructions for the
Equal Employment Opportunity Employer Infor-
mation Report EEO-1, as in effect on the date of
the enactment of this subsection.
‘‘(F) The Commission shall use the compensa-
tion data collected under paragraph (1)—
‘‘(i) to enhance—
‘‘(I) the investigation of charges filed under
section 706 or section 6(d) of the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(d)); and
‘‘(II) the allocation of resources to investigate
such charges; and
‘‘(ii) for any other purpose that the Commis-
sion determines appropriate.
‘‘(G) The Commission shall annually make
publicly available aggregate compensation data
collected under paragraph (1) for the categories
described in subparagraph (E), disaggregated by
industry, occupation, and core based statistical
area (as defined by the Office of Management
and Budget).’’.
SEC. 9. REINSTATEMENT OF PAY EQUITY PRO-
GRAMS AND PAY EQUITY DATA COL-
LECTION.
(a) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS DATA COL-
LECTION.—The Commissioner of Labor Statistics
shall continue to collect data on women workers
in the Current Employment Statistics survey.
(b) OFFICE OF FEDERAL CONTRACT COMPLI-
ANCE PROGRAMS INITIATIVES.—The Director of
the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Pro-
grams shall ensure that employees of the Of-
fice—
(1)(A) shall use the full range of investigatory
tools at the Office’s disposal, including pay
grade methodology;
(B) in considering evidence of possible com-
pensation discrimination—
(i) shall not limit its consideration to a small
number of types of evidence; and
(ii) shall not limit its evaluation of the evi-
dence to a small number of methods of evalu-
ating the evidence; and
(C) shall not require a multiple regression
analysis or anecdotal evidence for a compensa-
tion discrimination case;
(2) for purposes of its investigative, compli-
ance, and enforcement activities, shall define
‘‘similarly situated employees’’ in a way that is
consistent with and not more stringent than the
definition provided in item 1 of subsection A of
section 10–III of the Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Commission Compliance Manual (2000),
and shall consider only factors that the Office’s
investigation reveals were used in making com-
pensation decisions; and
(3) shall implement a survey to collect com-
pensation data and other employment-related
data (including hiring, termination, and pro-
motion data) and designate not less than half of
all nonconstruction contractor establishments
each year to prepare and file such survey, and
shall review and utilize the responses to such
survey to identify contractor establishments for
further evaluation and for other enforcement
purposes as appropriate.
(c) DEPARTMENT OF LABOR DISTRIBUTION OF
WAGE DISCRIMINATION INFORMATION.—The Sec-
retary of Labor shall make readily available (in
print, on the Department of Labor website, and
through any other forum that the Department
may use to distribute compensation discrimina-
tion information), accurate information on com-
pensation discrimination, including statistics,
explanations of employee rights, historical anal-
yses of such discrimination, instructions for em-
ployers on compliance, and any other informa-
tion that will assist the public in understanding
and addressing such discrimination.
SEC. 10. PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO PROSPEC-
TIVE EMPLOYEES’ SALARY AND BEN-
EFIT HISTORY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.) is amended by
inserting after section 7 the following new sec-
tion:
‘‘SEC. 8. REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS RE-
LATING TO WAGE, SALARY, AND BEN-
EFIT HISTORY.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—It shall be an unlawful
practice for an employer to—
‘‘(1) rely on the wage history of a prospective
employee in considering the prospective em-
ployee for employment, including requiring that
a prospective employee’s prior wages satisfy
minimum or maximum criteria as a condition of
being considered for employment;
‘‘(2) rely on the wage history of a prospective
employee in determining the wages for such pro-
spective employee, except that an employer may
rely on wage history if it is voluntarily provided
by a prospective employee, after the employer
makes an offer of employment with an offer of
compensation to the prospective employee, to
support a wage higher than the wage offered by
the employer;
‘‘(3) seek from a prospective employee or any
current or former employer the wage history of
the prospective employee, except that an em-
ployer may seek to confirm prior wage informa-
tion only after an offer of employment with
compensation has been made to the prospective
employee and the prospective employee responds
to the offer by providing prior wage information
to support a wage higher than that offered by
the employer; or
‘‘(4) discharge or in any other manner retali-
ate against any employee or prospective em-
ployee because the employee or prospective em-
ployee—
‘‘(A) opposed any act or practice made unlaw-
ful by this section; or
‘‘(B) took an action for which discrimination
is forbidden under section 15(a)(3).
‘‘(b) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘wage history’ means the wages paid to the pro-
spective employee by the prospective employee’s
current employer or previous employer.’’.
(b) PENALTIES.—Section 16 of such Act (29
U.S.C. 216) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(f)(1) Any person who violates the provisions
of section 8 shall—
‘‘(A) be subject to a civil penalty of $5,000 for
a first offense, increased by an additional $1,000
for each subsequent offense, not to exceed
$10,000; and
‘‘(B) be liable to each employee or prospective
employee who was the subject of the violation
for special damages not to exceed $10,000 plus
attorneys’ fees, and shall be subject to such in-
junctive relief as may be appropriate.
‘‘(2) An action to recover the liability de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(B) may be maintained
against any employer (including a public agen-
cy) in any Federal or State court of competent
jurisdiction by any one or more employees or
prospective employees for and on behalf of—
‘‘(A) the employees or prospective employees;
and
‘‘(B) other employees or prospective employees
similarly situated.’’.
SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated such
sums as may be necessary to carry out this Act.
(b) PROHIBITION ON EARMARKS.—None of the
funds appropriated pursuant to subsection (a)
for purposes of the grant program in section 5 of
this Act may be used for a congressional ear-
mark as defined in clause 9(e) of rule XXI of the
Rules of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 12. SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE.
(a) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This Act and the
amendments made by this Act shall take effect
on the date that is 6 months after the date of
enactment of this Act.
(b) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MATERIALS.—The
Secretary of Labor and the Commissioner of the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
shall jointly develop technical assistance mate-
rial to assist small enterprises in complying with
the requirements of this Act and the amend-
ments made by this Act.
(c) SMALL BUSINESSES.—A small enterprise
shall be exempt from the provisions of this Act,
and the amendments made by this Act, to the
same extent that such enterprise is exempt from
the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.) pursuant to
clauses (i) and (ii) of section 3(s)(1)(A) of such
Act (29 U.S.C. 203(s)(1)(A)).
SEC. 13. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act, or in any amendments
made by this Act, shall affect the obligation of
employers and employees to fully comply with
all applicable immigration laws, including being
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.024 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2863
March 27, 2019
subject to any penalties, fines, or other sanc-
tions.
SEC. 14. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, an amendment
made by this Act, or the application of that pro-
vision or amendment to particular persons or
circumstances is held invalid or found to be un-
constitutional, the remainder of this Act, the
amendments made by this Act, or the applica-
tion of that provision to other persons or cir-
cumstances shall not be affected.
The CHAIR. No amendment to that
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be in order except those
printed in part B of House Report 116–
19. Each such amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the
report, by a Member designated in the
report, shall be considered as read,
shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and
controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amend-
ment, and shall not be subject to a de-
mand for division of the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MS. FOXX OF
NORTH CAROLINA
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 1 printed in part
B of House Report 116–19.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Strike section 8.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 252, the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from North Carolina.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
In 2016, the Obama administration
proposed adding employee pay data to
the EEO–1 report, which is filed by cer-
tain employers specifying employee
data by job category, ethnicity, race,
and sex.
After strong concerns were raised
about this misguided proposal by con-
gressional Republicans, the Office of
Management and Budget stopped it
from going forward in August 2017. A
Federal district court recently over-
turned OMB’s stay on the data collec-
tion, which the administration will
likely appeal.
The Obama administration scheme
would have imposed an extremely cost-
ly and uniquely burdensome mandate
on business owners, providing reams of
proprietary data to the government for
uses which were never adequately ex-
plained.
The Obama EEO–1 mandate would
have increased the data fields provided
by employers in each EEO report twen-
tyfold, from 180 to 3,660. It was also es-
timated that adding employee pay data
to the EEO–1 form would have brought
the overall cost to employers of sub-
mitting the report to approximately
$700 million annually.
It is appropriate to compare the pay
data collection provisions in H.R. 7 to
the 2016 Obama scheme because H.R. 7,
as modified by the Scott amendment
printed in part A of the Rules Com-
mittee report, codifies much of the 2016
Obama administration mandate. In
fact, H.R. 7 now includes 12 pay bands,
the same number as in the Obama man-
date, at the exact dollar amounts that
were part of the Obama mandate.
Incredibly, H.R. 7’s employee pay
data mandate is even more extreme
than the Obama proposal. In addition
to collecting reams of employee pay
data, the bill requires the EEOC to col-
lect hiring, termination, and pro-
motion data. How the EEOC would col-
lect this kind of data and how business
owners would comply is anyone’s
guess.
As with the previous scheme to ex-
pand the EEO–1, H.R. 7’s provision
raises many concerns. For one, H.R. 7
would pose significant threats to the
confidentiality and privacy of em-
ployee pay data. For instance, the
EEOC shares the EEO–1 data with the
Department of Labor, which, in certain
situations, might release data even if
the EEOC would not.
Moreover, time and again we have
seen massive and harmful data
breaches of Federal agencies. Requir-
ing the EEOC to collect pay data would
create yet another valuable target, and
H.R. 7 fails to adequately address the
need for protection of employee data.
As with the Obama EEO–1 scheme, I
also have concern regarding the data’s
lack of usefulness and whether the
EEOC would be able to appropriately
manage and interpret the massive
amounts of employee pay data it would
collect. I have already mentioned the
burden of such a collection on employ-
ers.
For all these reasons, this amend-
ment strikes the invasive, risky, and
burdensome provision requiring the
EEOC to collect employee compensa-
tion data from employers broken down
by race, sex, and ethnicity. I urge my
colleagues to vote in favor of this
amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
Massachusetts is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Chair, before
addressing the pending amendment, I
want to thank the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. SCOTT) for his leadership and
also express my profound appreciation
for my friend from Connecticut. She
has been a tireless champion over the
years for equal pay on behalf of those
who have been discriminated against
unfairly.
Madam Chair, I imagine that most of
us agree that unfair pay discrimination
needs to be stopped. Unfortunately, de-
spite the progress we have made in of-
fering greater opportunities to more
and more Americans, pay discrimina-
tion persists, and, at times, it occurs in
stealth ways that cannot be easily de-
tected. That, in fact, is a key reason
why I oppose this amendment.
Keeping this bill intact is necessary
to prevent the kind of unfair discrimi-
nation that occurs when one employee
is compensated less than another de-
spite doing the same job just as well
for just as long and with the same cre-
dentials.
I worked in the private sector for 13
years before coming to Congress. I
know firsthand that unfair pay dispari-
ties still occur.
Across industries, I worked with em-
ployers to confront this inequality, to
bring more women to the decision-
making table and create work environ-
ments where people of any sex, gender,
race, or ethnicity were truly empow-
ered.
Pay discrimination derails a work-
place. It holds back talent and under-
mines trust, a toxic mix for any busi-
ness.
A key component of the Paycheck
Fairness Act requires that the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission
collect wage data, disaggregated by
sex, race, and national origin. This pro-
vision is particularly necessary to re-
spond to the administration’s attempt
to block the EEOC from collecting
data.
Earlier this month, the National
Women’s Law Center won an important
case to reinstate the EEOC’s ability to
collect this data. Nevertheless, attacks
on collecting data of this type con-
tinue. We should not make it easier to
hide pay discrimination.
This provision is necessary to ensure
that equal work does, in fact, lead to
equal pay. It will reveal trends in hir-
ing, compensation, and advancement,
and it will expose sex-segregated jobs,
and unequal salaries, benefits, or bo-
nuses.
This provision is a critical compo-
nent of the bill, and I urge my col-
leagues to oppose the amendment and
keep the bill intact.
Madam Chair, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. SCOTT).
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Chair, I include in the RECORD a letter
from the International Federation of
Professional and Technical Engineers
in support of this legislation.
INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF PRO-
FESSIONAL & TECHNICAL ENGI-
NEERS, AFL-CIO & CLC,
Washington, DC, March 26, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE, On behalf of the
90,000 members represented by the Inter-
national Federation of Professional and
Technical Engineers (IFPTE), we are writing
in support of H.R. 7, the Paycheck Fairness
Act. Sponsored by Congresswoman Rosa
DeLauro, this legislation will amend the
Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide
more effective remedies to victims of gender-
based discrimination in the payment of
wages. With a floor vote scheduled this week,
IFPTE urges you to vote for H.R. 7.
Today, women earn 80 cents to every one
dollar earned by their male counterparts. It
is even worse for African-American women,
who earn only 61 cents on the dollar com-
pared to white non-Hispanic men, while His-
panic and Latina women earn only 53 cents
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.024 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2864 March 27, 2019
on the dollar compared to white non-His-
panic men. While these glaring differences
should be unacceptable in any day and age,
the impact is even greater today with pov-
erty rates among women recently reaching
their highest peak in nearly two decades.
The problem of unequal pay for equal work
spans every sector and all educational levels.
According to a 2017 Department of Profes-
sional Employees (DPE, AFL-CIO) fact sheet,
Professional Women: A Gendered Look at In-
equality in the U.S. Workforce, women with a
bachelor’s degree or higher earned $1,230 in
median weekly wages in 2015, while men with
a comparable education earned $1,420. The
DPE fact sheet also looked at wage dispari-
ties per occupational category and found
that, without exception, women’s wages lag
far behind men. Despite comprising 55 per-
cent of workers in professional and related
occupations, women in those professions
earn 28 percent less than men.
The Paycheck Fairness Act is aimed at
closing the pay discrimination gap by
strengthening the Equal Pay Act of 1963.
This legislation will:
Clarify acceptable reasons for differences
in pay to ensure that a wage gap is legiti-
mate and truly a result of factors other than
gender;
Allow for reasonable comparisons between
employees to determine fair wages;
Prohibit employer retaliation against
workers who inquire about employee wages
in general, or disclose their own wage;
Provide women with the option to proceed
in an opt-out class action lawsuit and allow
women to receive punitive and compensatory
damages for pay discrimination;
Increase training for Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC) staff to
better identify and handle wage disputes;
Require EEOC to develop regulations di-
recting employers to collect wage data;
Require the Department of Labor to rein-
state activities that promote equal pay (i.e.
educational programs, technical assistance
to employers, promoting research about pay
disparities between men and women); and,
Establish salary negotiation skills training
for women and girls.
The Paycheck Fairness Act is a long over-
due bill to help close the pay gap suffered by
women workers. IFPTE urges you to support
H.R. 7.
Sincerely,
PAUL SHEARON,
President.
MATTHEW BIGGS,
Secretary-Treasurer/
Legislative Director.
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Chair, report-
ing this data allows the EEOC to see
which employers have racial or gender
pay gaps that differ significantly from
the pay patterns of other employers in
their industry and region.
To be clear, this pay data will not
conclusively establish that any em-
ployer is violating the law, and it isn’t
intended to. What it will do is aggre-
gate millions of data points to estab-
lish gender and racial pay patterns
within job categories, industries, and
localities, allowing identification of
firms that significantly depart from
those benchmarks that may warrant
further analysis.
b 1515
Simply put, we cannot end unfair pay
discrimination if we don’t have the
data.
I join my colleague from North Caro-
lina in celebrating a record number of
women entering the workforce, but
let’s compensate them fairly for their
work, and let’s use data to inform our
decisions.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to oppose the amendment and support
the underlying bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from North Carolina (Ms.
FOXX).
The amendment was rejected.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MRS. TORRES OF
CALIFORNIA
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 2 printed in part
B of House Report 116–19.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 1, line 12, add at the end the fol-
lowing: ‘‘Pay disparities are especially se-
vere for women and girls of color.’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 252, the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. TORRES) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Chair, I rise today to offer an amend-
ment to H.R. 7, the Paycheck Fairness
Act, and I strongly support H.R. 7 and
any effort to address the gender wage
gap in this country.
A terrible disparity exists in our
country. Women on average make 80
cents to every dollar made by their
White male counterpart. What is worse
is that it is not getting any better.
Last year, the gender wage gap actu-
ally grew for women of color. For every
dollar made by their non-Hispanic
White male counterpart, an African
American woman makes 61 cents, a Na-
tive American woman makes 58 cents,
and women who look like me, Latinas,
make 53 cents on the dollar for similar
work. That is less than the average
woman in the 1960s.
Do I not work just as hard as my
male counterparts? Do I deserve to
make 53 cents on the dollar? And do I
not have to support my family just as
much as any man?
Because of the gender pay gap,
Latinas lose an average of $28,386. That
amounts to more than $1 million over
her career.
To earn the same amount as her
White non-Hispanic male colleagues, a
Black woman must work until she is 86
years old. You cannot get those hours
back, those years back, or those dec-
ades back.
The gender wage gap contributes to a
wealth of disparity that makes it hard-
er for people of color to get ahead.
In 2013, the median White household
had about $134,000 in total wealth. For
the median Black household, it is
$11,000. That is a 13-to-1 ratio.
Addressing the gender wage gap is
the first step to addressing larger
issues of pay parity among historically
underserved groups.
My first amendment changes the
findings section of the Paycheck Fair-
ness Act to recognize the devastating
impacts the wage gap has on women of
color. We must acknowledge that the
wage gap is not color blind. By failing
to recognize the specific effect the
wage gap has on women and girls of
color, these impacts might go unno-
ticed.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I rise in opposition to the
amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman is rec-
ognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, my colleague just said that
Latina women are being paid 53 cents
for every dollar a White man earns for
the same work. That is currently ille-
gal and should be reported.
My colleague may want to amend her
statement on that, but I want to say
again, paying a woman less than a man
when they are both doing the same
work is abhorrent and illegal.
Women deserve equal pay for equal
work. That is why two Federal laws
prohibit pay discrimination based on
sex.
What Congress should be looking at
are ways to expand opportunities for
women in the workplace. H.R. 7, how-
ever, does nothing to help women. In-
stead, it is written to help trial law-
yers.
Rather than treating sex discrimina-
tion charges with the seriousness they
deserve, H.R. 7 is designed to make it
easier for trial lawyers to bring more
suits of questionable validity, which
will siphon off money from settlements
and jury awards to line the pockets of
trial lawyers.
As we have said before, H.R. 7 offers
no new or meaningful protections
against pay discrimination.
The findings section in H.R. 7 to
which this amendment is added already
discusses women in the workplace and
implies that the gender pay gap is
largely caused by discriminatory acts.
However, economic studies conducted
by government and private entities
alike consistently show that women
make more holistic and discerning
choices than men about managing
work-life demands, placing an equal
and sometimes higher value on life fac-
tors besides their paycheck as they
make decisions about hours worked,
overtime pursued, and promotions
sought.
Those values and choices should be
honored, Madam Chair. As such, the
gender pay gap significantly shrinks
when these choices and factors are
taken into account.
Pay discrimination is a serious issue,
but I do not believe this amendment
will improve the bill or help to address
pay discrimination in the workplace.
Madam Chair, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.040 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2865
March 27, 2019
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Chair, I am prepared to close.
Madam Chair, my amendment shines
a light on the plight of women and
girls of color and sets the tone to take
their struggle into account throughout
the rest of the bill.
My colleagues on the other side of
the aisle might have never heard about
retaliation, about blacklisting. When
women have the courage to come for-
ward and report these wage thefts and
abuses, they are treated differently
under current law. That is why this bill
is important. That is why this amend-
ment is important.
Madam Chair, I would like to thank
the gentlewoman from Connecticut
(Ms. DELAURO) for introducing this
bill, for her dedication to fair pay.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support my amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, again I say, Republicans abhor
any type of discrimination, particu-
larly pay discrimination against
women.
Madam Chair, if H.R. 7 would help
with the situation that my colleague
described, we would be in favor of it.
No woman should be discriminated
against because she reports the fact
that she is receiving unequal pay for
work, but, again, H.R. 7 does nothing
to help those situations. That is why
we oppose it.
Madam Chair, H.R. 7 is not helping
women; it is helping trial lawyers. I
urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on the
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from California (Mrs. TORRES).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MRS. TORRES OF
CALIFORNIA
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 3 printed in part
B of House Report 116–19.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 14, line 3, insert ‘‘, with specific at-
tention paid to women and girls from his-
torically underrepresented and minority
groups’’ after ‘‘disparities’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 252, the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. TORRES) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Chair, I rise today to offer a second
amendment to H.R. 7, the Paycheck
Fairness Act.
This amendment ensures that women
and girls of color are included in the
research, education, and outreach done
by the Secretary of Labor.
The sad truth is that women, espe-
cially women of color, are still paid
less than their male counterparts for
the same type of work. I know this be-
cause it happened to me.
One of my very first jobs was in a
male-dominated industry, selling steel.
It didn’t matter that I performed as
well, if not better, than my male col-
leagues. It didn’t matter that I sold
steel in three languages while they sold
in just one. I would do my own data
entry to get the job done, while they
relied on an assistant. And when I
needed to rush a shipment, I was not
afraid to walk into the warehouse, pick
the material, pack it, and send it to my
customer. I was still paid less.
I had to leave that job that I loved
because I wasn’t getting my fair share.
It was a shame then and it is a shame
today.
On average, Latinas still get paid 53
cents to every dollar made by their
White male colleagues for the same
type of work.
Today, we can act to change this. By
passing the Paycheck Fairness Act
with my amendment, maybe young
Latinas and other women of color will
not have to suffer and share my experi-
ence.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I rise in opposition to the
amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman is rec-
ognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, women deserve equal pay for
equal work. In America, it is law codi-
fied in the Equal Pay Act and the Civil
Rights Act.
Unfortunately, H.R. 7 is a false prom-
ise that creates opportunities and ad-
vantages for trial lawyers, not for
working women, and the bill already
requires new government studies.
b 1530
H.R. 7 allows for undocumented com-
pensatory and punitive damages, ex-
pands class actions, and makes it im-
possible to defend against a claim,
when the pay difference at issue is le-
gitimate. But the bill does not offer
new protections for workers against
pay discrimination.
Both government and nongovern-
ment studies have shown that the gen-
der pay gap significantly shrinks when
certain choices and factors are in-
cluded, such as choices made in man-
aging work-life demands.
For example, a recent Harvard Uni-
versity study found that the gap in pay
between female and male bus and train
operators working for the Massachu-
setts Bay Transportation Authority
was explained by the workplace choices
that women and men make, rather
than other factors such as discrimina-
tion. The Harvard study is noteworthy
because the workplace characteristics
of the female operators are entirely
comparable to their male operators.
All of the operators are represented by
the same union, and all are covered by
the same collective bargaining agree-
ment.
We want to ensure the laws prohib-
iting pay discrimination are effective.
However, this amendment, and the un-
derlying provision in H.R. 7, are not
going to be helpful in this regard.
We should strive to provide women
and all workers more freedom, flexi-
bility, and opportunities. I do not be-
lieve this amendment will help us
achieve that goal.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to oppose it, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Chair, my amendment will expand the
Paycheck Fairness Act to ensure the
Secretary of Labor is paying attention
to specific issues and researching the
wage gap; educating employers, the
media, and labor organizations on
these findings, specifically high-
lighting the impact on underrep-
resented groups; ensuring minorities
are included in informational and edu-
cational outreach programs; and cele-
brating the accomplishments of em-
ployers who are leading the way to spe-
cifically address the gender gap issue
for women of color.
By paying specific attention to
women of color in their research,
maybe, one day, we can fill that gap to
recognize that diversity of perspective
can be an asset.
I wonder how different my experience
would have been if the Paycheck Fair-
ness Act would have been in place at
the time. Would I still have become a
homeowner? Maybe. Would I still have
been a successful mother of three sons?
Maybe. Would I have been able to af-
ford to pay for childcare? Maybe. These
are the things that women in business
and the workforce are having to deal
with every single day.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I want to say, again: no one in
the workplace should be discriminated
against. No woman of color, no woman,
should be discriminated against. Re-
publicans are opposed to any discrimi-
nation, in pay or otherwise, but H.R. 7
is not going to fix that. If it were, we
would be on board.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from California (Mrs. TORRES).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. BYRNE
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 4 printed in part
B of House Report 116–19.
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Amend section 3(a)(2) to read as follows:
(2) by striking ‘‘any other factor other
than sex’’ and inserting ‘‘a bona fide busi-
ness-related reason other than sex’’; and
Page 6, strike lines 9 through 20.
Page 6, line 21, strike ‘‘(C)’’ and insert
‘‘(B)’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.061 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2866 March 27, 2019
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 252, the gentleman from Ala-
bama (Mr. BYRNE) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Alabama.
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, this amendment adds
the language ‘‘a bona fide business-re-
lated reason’’ to make clear to the
courts that the factor other than sex
defense in the Equal Pay Act cannot be
used as a loophole or excuse for using
sex as a factor.
This amendment additionally strikes
the remaining provisions of the under-
lying bill relating to applications of
the factor other than sex defense.
These unnecessary provisions require
that, even when an employer already
shows the factor is other than sex, it
must meet additional illogical and in-
surmountable burdens, effectively pav-
ing an unimpeded path to the promise
of unlimited punitive and compen-
satory damages for trial lawyers.
In sum, this amendment strengthens
current law and eliminates the new and
untested concepts the underlying bill
imposes on employers. It would make
it impossible for an employer to defend
any difference in pay, even when based
on any number of legitimate job-re-
lated factors.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. WILD. Madam Chair, I rise in op-
position to the Byrne amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
Pennsylvania is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. WILD. Madam Chair, don’t be
mistaken. This amendment is a clear
attempt to undermine the fundamental
objectives of the Paycheck Fairness
Act, which are to engender pay dis-
parity by, in part, further clarifying
congressional intent so that courts can
no longer dismiss meritorious claims.
The Paycheck Fairness Act fixes cur-
rent employment discrimination and
pay discrimination laws, laws that
have proven insufficient, given that
women still earn 80 cents on the dollar
compared to similarly situated White
men. And, of course, the disparity for
women of color is even greater.
Under the current Equal Pay Act, an
employer is not liable for gender pay
disparity if the disparity is due to
merit, seniority, quality of production
or ‘‘a factor other than sex.’’ Some
courts have interpreted the ‘‘factor
other than sex’’ criteria so broadly
that it frustrates the codified intent of
the Equal Pay Act.
For instance, some courts have found
that the ‘‘factor other than sex’’ need
not be business related or even related
to the particular job in question. Some
courts have interpreted the ‘‘factor
other than sex’’ defense to include
‘‘market forces,’’ or worse, accepted
the argument that pay disparity can be
explained by an employer’s ‘‘random
decision.’’
Those interpretations are nothing
more than a lifesaver for pretextual
discrimination. This amendment does
the same thing.
My Republican colleagues’ sugges-
tion that the Paycheck Fairness Act
eliminates the ‘‘factor other than sex’’
defense is contradicted by the text of
this bill. An employer may still raise a
‘‘factor other than sex’’ defense pro-
vided that the ‘‘factor other than sex’’
be bona fide, job related, and required
by business necessity.
This amendment’s attempt to strike
section (3)(a)(3), which explains what
constitutes a bona fide factor, is an at-
tempt to create ambiguity so that
courts continue to interpret the act’s
protection in a narrow way.
This bill provides necessary clarity
that this bona fide factor defense is
only available when there is a real
business necessity. This bill ensures
that there is a connection between the
pay disparity and the specific job in
question. This amendment is contrary
to the congressional intent of the un-
derlying bill, and I urge my colleagues
to vote ‘‘no.’’
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Chair, I was listen-
ing to the gentlewoman talk and I
don’t know that she has read my
amendment, because my amendment
actually solves the problem that she
poses. There are some circuits that
have given opinions just exactly as she
said. What my amendment does is sub-
stitute for those decisions the bona fide
business-related reason, which has been
decided by a number of circuits. It is
very clear. There is nothing amorphous
about it. Practitioners in this area,
like myself, understand exactly what it
means. It actually solves the problem
posed by the gentlewoman and makes
it a lot better than what is in the un-
derlying bill.
The problem with the underlying bill
is that it injects amorphous new things
that we don’t have any idea what they
would mean. What my amendment does
is it actually makes it clear and solves
the very problem that she stated in her
presentation.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. WILD. Mr. Chairman, this bill
clarifies that the ‘‘factor other than
sex’’ is only available on a bona fide
job-related and business necessary rea-
son.
It clarifies that this defense is not
available where the employee dem-
onstrates that a reasonable alternative
employment practice would serve the
same business purpose without pro-
ducing a pay disparity and that the
employer refused to adopt such an al-
ternative practice.
Carefully consider those words. This
is a burden-shifting provision that
would simply allow an employee to
show a reasonable alternative. It adds
nothing to an employer’s existing bur-
den. It only allows an employee to
rebut that defense with evidence.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Chairman, I appre-
ciate what the gentlewoman had to
say. I was listening very carefully to
her. I think she does have it confused,
however, because it does inject an addi-
tional burden for employers that is not
in the law right now and it does pro-
vide a ton of unclarity with regard to
what they are going to have to do to
comply with it. And I think my use of
the bona fide business-related reason is
going to inject the clarity we need and
actually protect plaintiffs more than
what is in the bill.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. WILD. Mr. Chairman, I think it
is important, given that we are having
a discussion here over who understands
the text of the bill, to read it directly
into the RECORD.
‘‘The bona fide factor defense, de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(iv) shall
apply only if the employer dem-
onstrates that such factor (i) is not
based upon or derived from a sex-based
differential in compensation; (ii) is job
related with respect to the position in
question; (iii) is consistent with busi-
ness necessity; and, (iv) accounts for
the entire differential in compensation
at issue.’’
It is very clearly set forth in the
text.
Mr. Chairman, I, therefore, continue
to urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on
the Byrne amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Chairman, I have
great respect for the gentlewoman. I
don’t think she understands what that
language actually means, how it has
actually been interpreted by the
courts, and how it may be totally mis-
interpreted against plaintiffs in these
types of lawsuits.
What my amendment does is actually
strengthen the hand of parties that
have a clear understanding of what
they are trying to accomplish there, ei-
ther the plaintiffs or the defendants. It
is an improvement in the bill for plain-
tiffs and defendants. We should all be
for this, not against it. I don’t want to
go tit for tat with her on everything,
but I do think she misunderstands both
the amendment and the underlying
bill.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. WILD. Mr. Chairman, I think it
is my colleague from Alabama who is
confused about the wording of this
text. His amendment would specifically
eliminate the wording that I just read
into the RECORD.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Chairman, how
much time do I have remaining?
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas). The gentleman from Alabama
has 2 minutes remaining.
Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Chairman, once
again, I heard what she read into the
RECORD. I already read that. I under-
stand exactly what it says. I think
maybe I haven’t made myself clear:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.066 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2867
March 27, 2019
The underlying bill injects clarity into
the law, which hurts plaintiffs in their
cases. This will hurt women in bringing
their cases. It will take years to try to
get clarity through the court system, if
we ever get clarity. That hurts plain-
tiffs in these lawsuits.
Defendants like to throw up
unclarity. So I guess, perhaps, if you
wanted to argue from that point of
view, let’s have a confusing bill. I am
going to get clarity into the bill that
actually helps women. And it is the
irony of this whole proceeding that the
bill that is supposed to help women,
that they say is going to help women,
hurts them. I am trying to help women
with my amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
b 1545
Ms. WILD. Mr. Chairman, this
amendment eliminates clarity. It sim-
ply replaces it with the words ‘‘bona
fide,’’ with no additional definition or
guidance, thereby ensuring that this
defense will continue to be misunder-
stood, misused, and incorrectly applied
by the courts.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BYRNE. Mr. Chairman, this lan-
guage is consistent with how nearly all
circuit courts of appeal have inter-
preted this factor.
‘‘Bona fide business-related reason’’
is not an empty phrase. For example,
in one case where the employer alleged
that the difference in pay was based on
the higher paid person’s participation
in a bona fide skills development pro-
gram, the court carefully examined the
program to determine whether it was
legitimate and, in fact, found that it
was not.
This amendment helps women. If you
want to help women in the workforce,
this amendment does it. Their bill
doesn’t.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Alabama (Mr. BYRNE).
The amendment was rejected.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 5 printed in
part B of House Report 116–19.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chairman, I rise
as the designee for Congresswoman
WATERS to offer her amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 13, line 23, insert after ‘‘women’’ the
following: ‘‘(including women who are Asian
American, Black or African-American, His-
panic American or Latino, Native American
or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific
Islander, and White American)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 252, the gentlewoman
from Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Washington.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chairman, what a
moment of tremendous pride it is to be
here in the 116th Congress under a
Democratic majority as we finally pass
the Paycheck Fairness Act.
I rise in strong support of this bill,
and I thank Chairman SCOTT for his
tremendous leadership in shepherding
this bill to the floor.
I also thank the author of H.R. 7,
Congresswoman ROSA DELAURO, who
has been a champion for women’s
rights her entire career. The Paycheck
Fairness Act is a testament to her tire-
less dedication to the eradication of
the gender pay gap, and it is by her
leadership that we are here today on
the verge of obtaining a more equitable
workforce.
I also thank Congresswoman
WATERS, who has long advocated for
and fought for pay equity and been a
beacon of courage for women across
this country.
We passed the Equal Pay Act in 1963,
which made it illegal to discriminate
based on sex when men and women are
performing jobs that require substan-
tially equal effort, skill, and responsi-
bility. We followed that up with title 7
of the Civil Rights Act, which, among
other things, made it illegal to dis-
criminate based on sex. And then 10
years ago, we passed the Lilly
Ledbetter Act, which made it clear
that every single inadequate paycheck
a woman receives is a new act of dis-
crimination. And yet, inequality per-
sisted.
Today, women are paid, on average,
only 80 cents for every dollar paid to
men, resulting in a gap of $10,169 per
woman, per year. And that pay gap
doesn’t discriminate. It exists in all oc-
cupations, locales, and regardless of
education or work history.
The Paycheck Fairness Act seeks to
eliminate this gap by picking up where
the Equal Pay Act of 1963 left off and
strengthening protections for women
in the workplace against retaliation,
discriminatory screening, and legal ob-
stacles to justice. This amendment to
H.R. 7 will ensure that the data col-
lected on behalf of the legislation will
be inclusive of all races and
ethnicities.
Pursuant to section 6 of H.R. 7, the
Secretary of Labor must conduct stud-
ies as well as provide information to
employers and the general public con-
cerning the means by which gender pay
disparities can be eliminated. These
studies are a critical step forward to-
wards closing the pay gap.
This amendment would clarify that
these Department of Labor studies
mandated by section 6 of the under-
lying bill must include not just infor-
mation regarding pay disparities be-
tween men and women generally, but
specifically for women of every racial
and ethnic background.
Mr. Chairman, in order to empower
all women, we must continue to high-
light the specific barriers faced by and
the needs of women of color in the
workforce.
In 2017, the gender wage gap widened
for women of color. While research
found that women made 80 cents for
every dollar paid to White, non-His-
panic men, women of color fared much
worse than average: Black women were
paid only 61 cents for every dollar paid
to White men; Native American women
were paid 58 cents; and Latina women
were paid only 53 cents.
That means that this year, Equal
Pay Day, the date that marks how long
women have to work into the year to
earn what their White male counter-
parts earned in the previous calendar
year, falls on April 2. But for Black
women, Equal Pay Day isn’t until Au-
gust 22. Native American women’s
Equal Pay Day falls on September 23,
and Latinas have to work nearly 11 full
months into 2019 before they will see
their Equal Pay Day on November 20.
That is true economic injustice.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I rise in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, once again, it is wrong to
discriminate, including with respect to
pay, based on sex. It is also illegal to
do so under both the Equal Pay Act of
1963 and the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Everyone, Republicans and Demo-
crats alike, supports equal pay for
equal work because, when workers
thrive, America thrives, but H.R. 7
does not further this goal.
Democrats claim H.R. 7 will improve
upon these existing and bipartisan laws
to create new avenues for women to
fight pay discrimination. What H.R. 7
actually does is create new avenues for
trial lawyers to earn higher pay-
checks—while dragging countless
women into unwanted lawsuits.
Of the 2.8 million jobs created in the
past year, more than 58 percent have
gone to women.
Today, there are 74.9 million working
women in the United States, more than
ever before; and one in five employer
businesses, nationwide, is owned by
women.
We celebrate workers who choose to
give priority to professional success
and promotion, but it is equally impor-
tant to show that we value freedom
and diversity of choice in the work-
place.
It is not the job of Federal law-
makers to tell American workers of ei-
ther sex what their priorities should
be. A number of economic studies con-
ducted by government and private enti-
ties alike consistently show that
women make more holistic and dis-
cerning choices than men about man-
aging work-life demands.
The new government studies man-
dated by H.R. 7 will likely tell us what
we already know and that our col-
leagues will not acknowledge: that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.067 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2868 March 27, 2019
work patterns and life decisions are
key to explaining the wage gap, and
that the wage gap shrinks considerably
when factors such as hours worked per
week, industry, occupation, work expe-
rience, job tenure, and preferences for
nonwage benefits are considered.
In addition to opening countless ave-
nues for trial lawyer payouts while
limiting employer defenses, H.R. 7
mandates intrusive and elaborate data
collection from employers, breaking
down compensation, hiring, termi-
nation, and promotion data by sex,
race, and national origin of employ-
ees—that will cost about $700 million a
year.
Rather than expending taxpayer dol-
lars on expanding studies, Federal law-
makers should promote a continued
focus on strong economic policy, edu-
cation, and innovation that will create
opportunities and expand options for
all American workers.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to oppose this amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chairman, better
information allows us to develop better
policy solutions, and that is all this
amendment does: collects more infor-
mation to address an unacceptable in-
equality. By mandating that the stud-
ies conducted by the Department of
Labor explicitly address and include
women of color in particular, we can
ensure that no one is left behind.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
the gathering of this valuable informa-
tion and vote ‘‘yes’’ on this amend-
ment.
Mr. Chairman, it has been a long
road to get here, but today, women
across the country of every race and
ethnicity can stand tall and know that
we value their work equally.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, we believe women should
not be discriminated against. We don’t
want women discriminated against,
women of any category in this country,
and this amendment is not necessary
and neither is H.R. 7.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to vote ‘‘no’’ on the amendment and
‘‘no’’ on the underlying bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Washington (Ms.
JAYAPAL).
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. The Chair under-
stands that the amendment No. 6 will
not be offered.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. BEYER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 7 printed in
part B of House Report 116–19.
Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
In subsection (f) of section 709 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e–8), as pro-
posed to be added by section 8, add at the end
the following:
‘‘(3) The compensation data under para-
graph (1) shall be collected from each em-
ployer that—
‘‘(A) is a private employer that has 100 or
more employees, including such an employer
that is a contractor with the Federal Gov-
ernment, or a subcontractor at any tier
thereof; or
‘‘(B) the Commission determines
appropriate.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 252, the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. BEYER) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Virginia.
Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, as a small business
owner and employer, I understand the
value of data because you can’t im-
prove what you don’t measure. So my
amendment, which I offer with Rep-
resentative ILHAN OMAR, exempts em-
ployers with fewer than 100 employees
from reporting compensation data and
only requires those with more than 100
to do so.
Employers already report workforce
data by race, sex, and ethnicity across
10 different job categories in their an-
nual EEO–1 submission to the EEOC.
So collecting this data simply ensures
equal pay for equal work. If employers
value the standard, this is an easy
start.
I am very grateful to Chairman
SCOTT and the leadership on the
amendments to strengthen pay data
collection and to Congresswoman ROSA
DELAURO for her years and years of ef-
fort on this.
Persistent pay gaps exist in the U.S.
workforce to correlate with sex, race,
and ethnicity. The Congress has found
that 64.6 percent of the wage gap can be
explained by three factors: experience,
industry, and occupation, the things
my good friend from North Carolina
pointed out. But the remaining 35 per-
cent can’t be explained by these dif-
ferences.
Federal law specifically prohibits
men and women from being paid dif-
ferently for work, but enforcement of
this mandate is impeded by a lack of
knowledge—no data, not reliable data,
especially data by sex and by race. This
is a barrier to closing the persistent
pay gap for women and minorities.
All we are really asking here is to be
able to provide the data so that busi-
ness leaders can make the good deci-
sions and so that employees can dis-
cover if they are being unfairly paid.
They have a right, then, to ask.
For over 50 years, companies have
used the EEO–1 form to report. Earlier
today, we have heard that this will rep-
resent an unfair burden on businesses.
While virtually every business I
know—even those with two, three, and
four employees—find ways to outsource
paycheck preparation, almost all of
this has been digitized. But to be extra
cautious and make sure that we are
not providing any burden on small
business, this amendment would ex-
empt those with 100 employees or less.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1600
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I claim the time in opposi-
tion to this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chair, I reserve the right to change my
mind based on what I hear from my
colleague from Virginia.
Mr. Chair, I do have great respect for
my colleague from Virginia, and I ap-
preciate the fact that this amendment
recognizes the very serious problem
with H.R. 7 by applying the expansive
government data collection mandate
only to business owners with 100 or
more employees. However, the forced
data collection scheme in the under-
lying bill, even with this amendment,
is still extremely misguided.
H.R. 7 requires business owners to,
for the first time ever, submit reams of
pay data to the EEOC, broken down by
job category, race, sex, and ethnicity.
Moreover, the collection must also in-
clude hiring, termination, and pro-
motion data, which even the Obama ad-
ministration’s 2016 pay data collection
scheme did not include.
This data collection mandate raises
several concerns.
First, it puts at risk volumes of high-
ly confidential pay data involving mil-
lions of individual workers. We all
know the widespread data breaches the
Federal Government has suffered.
Second, the EEOC will not be able to
manage or properly use this data. It
has never been explained what exactly
the EEOC will do with this data.
Third, this mandate is overly burden-
some. The data cells required from
business owners when they file an em-
ployer information report, EEO–1, with
the EEOC will expand from 180 cells to
3,660. It has been estimated that the
new reams of pay data added to the
EEO–1 will cost business owners $700
million annually.
Although this amendment would
spare some business owners from the
mandate, the serious flaws in this data
collection mandate make the provision
in the underlying bill not worth saving.
If the pay data collection mandate is
not worth applying to smaller firms,
then perhaps it should be reconsidered
entirely. What is good for the goose is
good for the gander.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), the distinguished
majority leader.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the gentleman for yielding. I wanted to
speak during general debate, but I will
take this time to speak on behalf of
this legislation and also to rise in sup-
port of the gentleman’s amendment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.070 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2869
March 27, 2019
Mr. Chairman, the American people
entrusted Democrats with the majority
in part because we pledged to work
hard on the issues they care about
most, issues affecting their everyday
lives.
I am the father of three daughters.
They are all extraordinary people. I
want them all treated based upon the
content of their character, their per-
formance, and the duties that they per-
form, not on the fact that they happen
to be daughters and not sons.
One of the issues we pledged to ad-
dress was raising wages, and that in-
cludes addressing the gender pay gap,
which keeps women from earning their
fair share and hurts families, children,
and all people.
The last time I was the majority
leader, which was from 2007 to 2011, we
enacted the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay
Act to make it easier for women who
have faced discriminatory pay and ben-
efits to seek justice.
Lilly Ledbetter had worked hard, and
she did not know that she was being
paid less than her counterparts doing
exactly the same thing she was doing,
with exactly the same responsibility
and exactly the same expectations.
There was no justice in that, but she
didn’t know it. The Supreme Court
said, well, you didn’t raise the issue
quickly enough.
We also passed the Paycheck Fair-
ness Act in that same Congress, but,
unfortunately, the Senate failed to
enact it as well.
Now we return to this important
work of ensuring equal pay for equal
work. Who, intellectually, can oppose
that concept? Who, with any sense of
fairness and fair play, could oppose
that concept and precept?
It is shameful, Mr. Chairman, that,
in 2019, 56 years after President Ken-
nedy signed the Equal Pay Act, we are
here fighting for equal pay. A half cen-
tury later, women still earn, on aver-
age, 80 cents to a man’s dollar, and,
very frankly, minority women earn
less than that. That gap is even worse
for minorities. Two-thirds of women
are now either the primary bread-
winners or co-breadwinners in their
households.
Make no mistake, this is an eco-
nomic concern for families across our
country. This is not a woman’s issue. It
is a fairness issue. It is an every fam-
ily, every person issue.
Democrats ran on a platform of rais-
ing wages, as I said. We are focused on
making sure that more working fami-
lies can make it in America. That is
what this bill will help achieve.
I am proud that every member of the
Democratic Caucus—let me repeat
that, every member—234 members of
the Democratic Caucus have signed on
as cosponsors of this bill because we
believe it is fair; because we believe it
is right; because we believe it is good
for families; and, yes, because we be-
lieve it is good for the American econ-
omy.
ROSA DELAURO is on the floor, and I
want to thank the gentlewoman. We
hear the phrase, ‘‘Keep the faith.’’
ROSA DELAURO has kept the faith year
after year, not only with women of
America, but with the families and
children of America who rely on wom-
en’s wages for the quality of their
lives, and their partners’, and their
spouses’.
I thank the gentlewoman, ROSA
DELAURO, for all that she has done for
our country in keeping the faith.
I also thank my dear friend and my
colleague from my neighboring State
of Virginia, Chairman BOBBY SCOTT, for
his faithfulness, for his focus, and for
his bringing this bill to the floor so
early in our session.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
observe April 2, which is Equal Pay
Day. It is a day symbolizing how far
into the year women must work to
earn what men earned in the previous
year—essentially, 3 months of free
labor. Not in this body, because we are
all paid the same in this body. We com-
ply with this bill. That is the good
news.
The bad news is, women, on average,
have to work not 12 months but 15
months to earn what men earn in 12
months. That is what that language
meant.
I urge my colleagues to vote today to
make this the last Equal Pay Day and
pass this bill to ensure the promise of
economic equality for all.
We hold these truths to be self-evi-
dent, that all—drop the ‘‘men’’—that
all are created equal. That view maybe
self-evident, but it is not self-exe-
cuting. Let us act upon it today.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, could I inquire as to how
much time I have remaining, and how
much time the gentleman from Vir-
ginia has remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from North Carolina has 23⁄4 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from Vir-
ginia has 2 minutes remaining.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I have said it I don’t know
how many times today. I will say it
one more time. Republicans are op-
posed to pay discrimination. We have
always been opposed to pay discrimina-
tion. We have always been for the
rights of others.
The first Republican President in
this country was the leader that ended
slavery in this country. Republicans
have been for civil rights. We have
been for equal pay. We support the
rights of all citizens to be treated
equally. We have all said that, every
Republican who has spoken here.
This bill does not do that. I believe
that the gentleman from Virginia’s
amendment proves that this is a dam-
aging bill, because he wants to spare
smaller companies from the very dam-
aging impacts of the pay data collec-
tion mandate.
That, in a way, is discriminatory in
itself because there is a feeling that it
is okay for big businesses to pay the
cost of this, but it is not okay for small
businesses to pay the cost of this. In a
way, this amendment itself damns the
bill.
As our colleague from Maryland says,
I hope that every business owner in
America will note that every Democrat
is a cosponsor of this bill. I hope that
word gets out loud and clear across the
country, particularly among business
owners.
I will say that this amendment to
spare smaller companies makes the
teeniest, tiniest improvement to this
bill, and, therefore, I will support it, al-
though I don’t believe the bill will go
anywhere in the Senate.
It is my hope that, again, that points
out the discriminatory nature and the
terrible aspects of this bill to all busi-
ness and industry in the country. It
doesn’t help the underlying bill in
terms of the other businesses and in-
dustries.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, I thank
my friend from North Carolina for sup-
porting this amendment, and I thank
my friend from North Carolina for
clearly stating a number of times
today that Democrats and Republicans
are both committed to equal pay for
men and for women.
I think our differences just come
down to how we accomplish that, be-
cause 50 years after the Equal Pay Act
was signed, there are still significant
differences, despite our joint commit-
ment to equal pay.
If unequal pay continues to persist,
how do we address it? We simply say
that the collection of data to the EEO–
1 is the best way to move forward. The
employers with less than 100 have been
exempted from the very beginning of
the EEO–1 report, so this is simply con-
sistent with that and recognizes that,
to get meaningful data, sometimes you
need more than a handful of people.
That is, 6 or 10 or 12 people don’t nec-
essarily give you an apples-to-apples
comparison. When you get more than
100, you can do it.
The government already collects the
sensitive data. It has done it for years
without privacy concerns. My friend
pointed out there may be 3,200 or 3,600
categories. Right now, with deep learn-
ing and machine learning, this is some-
thing that takes a microsecond to do.
This is very easy. We are now in an in-
tellectual and digital world where we
can have the EEO discover which com-
panies have persistent patterns of pay
inequity, and it really works.
All our offices have pay trans-
parency. When I am trying to figure
out how much to pay a legislative cor-
respondent or legislative director or
front office, I know that everyone can
go online and figure out what everyone
else is making. That is a powerful in-
centive for us to make sure that people
are paid fairly and paid equally. All we
are trying to do is bring the same
transparency to American businesses
across the country.
Mr. Chair, I thank my friend for her
support of this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.074 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2870 March 27, 2019
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. BEYER).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Virginia will be
postponed.
b 1615
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MRS. LAWRENCE
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 8 printed in
part B of House Report 116–19.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
In section 6, strike ‘‘Not later than’’ and
insert ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than’’.
In section 6, add at the end the following:
(b) REPORT ON GENDER PAY GAP IN TEENAGE
LABOR FORCE.—
(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Labor, acting through
the Director of the Women’s Bureau and in
coordination with the Commissioner of
Labor Statistics, shall—
(A) submit to Congress a report on the gen-
der pay gap in the teenage labor force; and
(B) make the report available on a publicly
accessible website of the Department of
Labor.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(A) An examination of trends and potential
solutions relating to the teenage gender pay
gap.
(B) An examination of how the teenage
gender pay gap potentially translates into
greater wage gaps in the overall labor force.
(C) An examination of overall lifetime
earnings and losses for informal and formal
jobs for women, including women of color.
(D) An examination of the teenage gender
pay gap, including a comparison of the aver-
age amount earned by males and females, re-
spectively, in informal jobs, such as baby-
sitting and other freelance jobs, as well as
formal jobs, such as retail, restaurant, and
customer service.
(E) A comparison of —
(i) the types of tasks typically performed
by women from the teenage years through
adulthood within certain informal jobs, such
as babysitting and other freelance jobs, and
formal jobs, such as retail, restaurant, and
customer service; and
(ii) the types of tasks performed by young-
er males in such positions.
(F) Interviews and surveys with workers
and employers relating to early gender-based
pay discrepancies.
(G) Recommendations for—
(i) addressing pay inequality for women
from the teenage years through adulthood,
including such women of color;
(ii) addressing any disadvantages experi-
enced by young women with respect to work
experience and professional development;
(iii) the development of standards and best
practices for workers and employees to en-
sure better pay for young women and the
prevention of early inequalities in the work-
place; and
(iv) expanding awareness for teenage girls
on pay rates and employment rights in order
to reduce greater inequalities in the overall
labor force.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 252, the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Mrs. LAWRENCE) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Michigan.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Chairman, I would first like to
thank Representative ROSA DELAURO
for her hard work on H.R. 7, the Pay-
check Fairness Act. This longstanding
legislation which would ensure equal
pay for equal work has been introduced
in every single Congress since 1997.
As the chair of the Bipartisan Wom-
en’s Caucus, I am proud to support H.R.
7, meaningful legislation that would at
a minimum ensure that workers are
protected against gender-based pay dis-
crimination, prevent retaliation
against those who voluntarily discuss
wages, eliminate loopholes which
would allow institutional discrimina-
tion in pay; equalize remedies for gen-
der-based discrimination; and prohibit
salary history from dictating future
pay.
Mr. Chair, my amendment is simple.
While we debate the gender pay gap in
the professional workplace, it is imper-
ative that we understand how and when
the pay gap begins. For women, the
gender-based wage gap typically
emerges in the teenage years and only
increases with time. My amendment
will require the Secretary of Labor and
the Commissioner of Labor Statistics
to submit a report to Congress that
studies the teenage pay gap and pro-
vide recommendations to address it.
A 2018 study cited in The Washington
Post reported that the gender-based
wage gap emerges well before adult-
hood, leading to long-term effects on
lifetime earnings and economic mobil-
ity. The economic impacts of the gen-
der-based wage gap are even greater for
women of color.
Teenagers are a substantial but often
understudied part of our workforce.
Many teenagers, not out of just want-
ing something to do, but out of neces-
sity or because of their financial situa-
tion, work part-time while in school
and sometimes enter the workforce,
unfortunately, as early as 12 years old.
To truly address the wage gap, we need
to have a better way to identify the
root of these gaps.
This report would provide the statis-
tics necessary to uncover why this pay
gap exists and the best ways to remedy
the inconsistency. If women are raised
in a culture where they believe they
are not equal to men, the disparity
that exists will never be broken. We
must work to end that mindset now.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chair, I rise in opposition to the
amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, in America, discriminating
in pay based on sex is illegal as codi-
fied in the Equal Pay Act and the Civil
Rights Act.
Democrats claim H.R. 7 will improve
upon these bipartisan laws to create
new opportunities for women to fight
pay discrimination. What H.R. 7 actu-
ally does is create new opportunities
for trial lawyers to earn higher pay-
checks. Similarly, while this amend-
ment appears to be marketed as assist-
ing young women, this paternalistic
approach undermines young women’s
abilities and pigeonholes them into
stereotypical roles.
This amendment directs the Sec-
retary of Labor to conduct a study on
the gender pay gap in the teenage labor
force and then to report recommenda-
tions to Congress, including rec-
ommendations to expand awareness,
specifically for teenage girls, on pay
grades and employment rights. I am
tempted to call this the babysitting
amendment because it additionally
asks the Department of Labor to spend
taxpayer dollars to compare amounts
earned by men and women in informal
jobs such as babysitting.
This amendment could also be called
the in loco parentis amendment, be-
cause it is parents who should be
teaching their children about the bene-
fits of hard work and education and the
importance of a first job, which is often
a minimum wage job. We don’t need
the government coming in and telling
children and parents what their chil-
dren should be doing. These initial jobs
help to teach teenagers important
skills that will stay with them their
entire lives.
American women of all ages are
skilled, they are smart, and today they
are driving the American economy. Of
the 2.8 million jobs created in the last
year, more than 58 percent have gone
to women. One in five employer busi-
nesses is owned by women; and we are
seeing more young women than men
earning college degrees.
I support equal pay for equal work,
which is rightfully required under two
Federal statutes. Congress should focus
on policies that will continue to in-
crease economic opportunity and ex-
pand options for all workers. This
amendment and the underlying bill
fails in this regard.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
oppose this amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Chairman, I
would really feel challenged to think
that my colleague is unaware that
there are young girls who are teenagers
who work in restaurants and in other
capacities, not because their parents
want them to have activities but be-
cause they are literally trying to sur-
vive and feed themselves and some-
times their brothers and sisters, and to
say that it is not necessary for us to
have data and not just stand at a mike
as an elected official and make as-
sumptions based on your own privilege
of life.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.076 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2871
March 27, 2019
I think it is imperative that we look
at the data, and here I am saying
that—before I can say and validate the
status of teenage girls—I would want
statistics and reports so that we can
truly address the inequality that girls
often get, and the mindset that a little
boy who is out working, he needs the
pay and often is given a larger amount
of money versus a girl—and every girl
is not a babysitter, but if we want to
call this the babysitter amendment, I
will accept it.
As we work to address the pay gap, it
is important that we do not forget our
new generation of leaders, and it is
about breaking a cycle, about having a
young girl who is working, and she un-
derstands that I have value and that I
too should be paid an equal pay.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I know that my colleague
was not on the floor earlier when I
spoke and told of my need to work even
before I was a teenager, and I worked
for survival. So I know that she did not
know that and did not know that I do
not take lightly the fact that many
young people in this country are like I
was and working to help support their
families so that they have food and
they are able to survive.
I do not take lightly anyone’s work
in this country, not anyone. I worked
hard all my life, and I have always
wanted to be paid equally with men,
and I know there were times I was not.
So I understand that. I never want to
see anyone discriminated against in
this country. I particularly never want
to see a woman discriminated against
for equal pay when she is doing the job
that a man is doing.
I wish with all my heart that we were
improving on the Equal Pay Act and
the Civil Rights Act and helping to
make things better for women with
H.R. 7. We are not. We are lining the
pockets of trial lawyers and in many
cases will be harming women. This
amendment stereotypes young women
because it mentions babysitting. That
is where the stereotypes come in, in
this amendment, and that is unfortu-
nate.
We do have a younger generation,
and we have women who can do any job
that any man can do, and she should be
paid equally for it. But neither this
study nor this bill is going to guar-
antee that.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Michigan (Mrs. LAW-
RENCE).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MR. BROWN OF
MARYLAND
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 9 printed in
part B of House Report 116–19.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chair,
I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 7, line 23, insert after ‘‘employee’’ the
following: ‘‘(such as by inquiring or dis-
cussing with the employer why the wages of
the employee are set at a certain rate or sal-
ary)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 252, the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. BROWN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Let me start by saying it is a privi-
lege to be able to stand on the floor of
the U.S. House of Representatives in
this year, in this term, and in this ses-
sion of Congress to participate in the
debate and the discussion and to offer
an amendment on this historic bill, the
Paycheck Fairness Act.
I would like to first thank my friend
and colleague, the chairman of the
committee, BOBBY SCOTT from Vir-
ginia, for his leadership on this issue
and this bill. I want to recognize the
decades’ long work of my colleague
from Connecticut, Congresswoman
ROSA DELAURO, on the underlying bill
and her efforts, along with many other
women, including Maryland’s former
Senator Barbara Mikulski to finally
ensure that women are paid and treat-
ed fairly in the workplace.
My amendment would enhance pay
transparency protections in this bill.
This amendment would make it unlaw-
ful for an employer to discriminate
against an employee for simply dis-
cussing or inquiring why they are
being paid a certain wage or salary.
Mr. Chairman, if you found out that
you were being paid less than your col-
leagues for the same work, you would
probably demand to be paid more. But
for too long, it has been considered
taboo to discuss your salary with your
coworkers let alone confront your boss
if you were being paid unfairly.
When pay is transparent, organiza-
tions must be able to justify each em-
ployee’s salary, thus reducing or elimi-
nating any type of bias.
That is why the Paycheck Fairness
Act puts transparency front and center
and why my amendment goes a little
further and gives every employee the
right to negotiate the higher pay.
Since Congress has not been able to
act over the past several years, States
have led the way in promoting pay
transparency, including California, Illi-
nois, Louisiana, and my State of Mary-
land. In Maryland we added very broad
pay transparency protections to ensure
employees the ability to discover and
discuss disparities in pay, and we even
expanded prohibitions against dis-
criminatory pay practices to include
gender identity, an item that I would
hope that this Congress may take up
later this session.
But my amendment today reiterates
the importance of transparency in the
workplace. Every employee should be
able to advocate and negotiate for
themselves without fear of reprisal. Ac-
cording to the Carnegie Mellon study,
men are four times more likely than
women to ask for a raise, and when
women do ask, they typically request
30 percent less than men do.
We should be encouraging employees,
regardless of their gender, to inquire
and discuss disparities in pay with
their employers and advocate for them-
selves if they aren’t being paid fairly or
if it is simply time they received a
well-deserved raise.
b 1630
Mr. Chairman, at a time when wages
are not rising fast enough, Congress
must ensure every working American
is paid equally and fairly and is em-
powered throughout their salary nego-
tiation process.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, I claim the time in opposi-
tion to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from North Carolina is recognized for 5
minutes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Pay
discrimination on the basis of sex is
wrong, and it also, importantly, vio-
lates two Federal statutes.
Retaliation by an employer against
an employee for pursuing reasonable
discussion or inquiry regarding poten-
tially discriminating compensation is
wrong, and it, too, is illegal.
However, like the rest of this bill, the
expanded nonretaliation provision in
H.R. 7 goes too far, and this amend-
ment takes it even further.
Under current law, those who inquire
about, discuss, or disclose compensa-
tion information in a reasonable man-
ner and with a good faith belief that an
unlawful pay disparity may exist are
protected from retaliation. However,
the underlying provision in H.R. 7 re-
garding pay disclosures and discussion
has no limits at all.
The inquiry, discussion, and disclo-
sure allowed under this bill is not re-
quired to be reasonable nor related to
any perceived pay disparity and raises
serious privacy concerns for all em-
ployees, especially in the age of social
media.
H.R. 7 takes away an employee’s abil-
ity to control disclosure of information
about their own pay. It also limits an
employer’s ability to protect what
should be confidential information
about employees.
Congress should focus on policies
that promote opportunity and options
for all workers. This amendment does
not further this purpose.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
protect workers’ privacy rights by op-
posing this amendment and the under-
lying bill, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chair,
unfortunately, historically, the cloak
of confidentiality has often been the
shield used by employers to discrimi-
nate against women when it comes to
paycheck fairness.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.078 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2872 March 27, 2019
I encourage all my colleagues to sup-
port my amendment and the under-
lying bill, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, once again, I reiterate my
opposition to the underlying bill and to
this amendment, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. BROWN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. BEYER
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, the unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on amendment No. 7 printed in
part B of House Report 116–19 offered
by the gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
BEYER) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 406, noes 24,
not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 132]
AYES—406
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—24
Allen
Amodei
Babin
Biggs
Burchett
Carter (TX)
Crawford
Ferguson
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Hern, Kevin
King (IA)
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Palmer
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rouzer
Roy
Schweikert
Walker
Waters
Wenstrup
NOT VOTING—7
DesJarlais
Granger
Plaskett
Radewagen
San Nicolas
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
b 1702
Messrs. SCHWEIKERT, MOONEY of
West Virginia, FERGUSON,
RIGGLEMAN, and PALMER changed
their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Messrs. COLE, BUCSHON, GIBBS,
BISHOP of Utah, GAETZ, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Messrs. BROOKS of Ala-
bama, WEBER of Texas, LAMBORN,
and CLOUD changed their vote from
‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. WITTMAN. Mr. Chair, I was unavoidably
detained due to illness. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘YEA’’ on rollcall No. 132.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment in the nature of a
substitute, as amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. Under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
JACKSON LEE) having assumed the
chair, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Acting
Chair of the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union, re-
ported that that Committee, having
had under consideration the bill (H.R.
7) to amend the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 to provide more effective
remedies to victims of discrimination
in the payment of wages on the basis of
sex, and for other purposes, and, pursu-
ant to House Resolution 252, he re-
ported the bill back to the House with
an amendment adopted in the Com-
mittee of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
amendment to the amendment re-
ported from the Committee of the
Whole?
If not, the question is on the amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute, as
amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I have a motion to recommit
at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentlewoman opposed to the bill?
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, in its present form, I am.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I reserve a point of order on
the motion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. A point
of order is reserved.
The Clerk will report the motion to
recommit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.082 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2873
March 27, 2019
The Clerk read as follows:
Ms. Foxx of North Carolina moves to re-
commit the bill H.R. 7 to the Committee on
Education and Labor with instructions to re-
port the same back to the House forthwith,
with the following amendment:
In section 3(c)(5)—
(1) strike ‘‘and’’ at the end of subparagraph
(A);
(2) redesignate subparagraph (B) as sub-
paragraph (C); and
(3) insert after subparagraph (A), the fol-
lowing:
(B) by inserting after ‘‘defendant’’ the fol-
lowing: ‘‘(except that any contingent attor-
ney’s fees shall not exceed 49 percent of any
judgment awarded to the plaintiff or plain-
tiffs)’’; and
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from North Carolina is rec-
ognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I am here to offer a motion to
recommit that is about honesty.
It is about making sure this bill does
what my Democrat colleagues say it
will do, and that is help victims of
wage discrimination on the basis of
sex.
It is about making sure that any
woman who experiences unfair and ille-
gal wage discrimination just because
she is a woman doesn’t go through all
the hardship of a legal battle only to
see her lawyer walk away with even
more of her money.
With this motion to recommit, if a
plaintiff has entered into a contin-
gency fee arrangement in Equal Pay
Act litigation, the attorney’s contin-
gency fee, including costs, will not ex-
ceed 49 percent of the judgment award-
ed to the plaintiff.
If adopted, it will ensure that the in-
dividual who has brought the claim ac-
tually receives a majority of the judg-
ment and that the attorney doesn’t
collect the lion’s share.
The authors of H.R. 7 failed to in-
clude in the text any new legal protec-
tions for workers against discrimina-
tion. Instead, the bill alters the Equal
Pay Act to allow unlimited compen-
satory damages even when there is no
intentional discrimination, and unlim-
ited punitive damages. It also expands
class action lawsuits.
H.R. 7 makes it impossible in many
cases for employers to defend against
Equal Pay Act claims even when there
is a legitimate business reason for a
pay differential.
H.R. 7 creates special incentives and
awards for trial lawyers.
For working women who have been
taken advantage of by their bosses, it
sets them up to lose out again.
H.R. 7 encourages trial lawyers to
file more lawsuits of questionable va-
lidity and to drive workers into the
suits without their knowledge for the
purpose of siphoning off the new pool of
unlimited compensatory and punitive
damages created by H.R. 7, lining their
own pockets at the expense of plain-
tiffs.
A similar amendment capping law-
yers’ contingency fees at 15 percent
was offered by Mr. BYRNE when H.R. 7
was considered in committee. Every
Democrat on the Education and Labor
Committee opposed this modest
change.
If this amendment is adopted, trial
lawyers will have to somehow make
due with 49 percent of the overall judg-
ment, and we all know that trial law-
yers siphon off more than this amount
in many of their class action cases.
Victims of true pay discrimination
should be the true beneficiaries of any
judgment in their favor. This amend-
ment will help ensure this outcome in
Equal Pay Act cases.
Madam Speaker, supporters of H.R. 7
say the bill is about helping victims of
pay discrimination. If that is true,
then all Members should support this
reasonable proposal.
All we are asking is that if our col-
leagues are so intent on giving trial
lawyers a bigger piece of the pie, then
consider giving working women more
than a few crumbs.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I withdraw my reservation of
my point of order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
ervation of a point of order is with-
drawn.
Ms. WILD. Madam Speaker, I rise in
opposition to the motion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Ms. WILD. Madam Speaker, I am op-
posed to all caps on attorney’s fees in
this type of case.
The only criteria for the amount of
attorney’s fees charged should be rea-
sonableness in the context of the case
itself.
I have spent more than 30 years in
courtrooms, most of that time rep-
resenting the defense in civil matters,
almost always for companies; in other
words, against the very trial lawyers
we speak of.
So I have no bias in favor of those
lawyers, but let me tell you this: rep-
resenting plaintiffs in employment
cases is a very hard job. These lawyers
work for every penny they earn. They
take cases that put their own liveli-
hood at risk.
Many employment cases take years
to resolve. Often they have to go to
court over and over to litigate dis-
covery and pretrial matters, and all
the while, they are not collecting a
paycheck from that case, because they
have taken it on a contingent fee basis.
Without an award at the end of the
case, they receive nothing, and they
advance out-of-pocket expenses.
But even more important, without
these lawyers, low-income female em-
ployees with legitimate grievances
would have no recourse. Only with a
competent lawyer’s help can they pro-
ceed.
This motion, if passed, would dis-
courage lawyers from taking these
cases. And if they don’t take these
cases, employees, workers, families
lose out.
The only test for attorney’s fees
should be reasonableness. Courts and
judges are well equipped to determine
whether a fee is reasonable, far better
equipped than Congress is.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from New Jersey (Ms.
SHERRILL).
b 1715
Ms. SHERRILL. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in opposition to the motion
to recommit offered by the gentle-
woman from North Carolina.
There are few things that define us as
a country more distinctly than the
idea of the American Dream: the idea
that anyone can make it here through
hard work and dedication. That dream
rests on giving people a fair shot.
Right now, too many people in this
country just aren’t getting a fair shot,
and women in this country face addi-
tional barriers because they simply are
not paid equally for their work.
Madam Speaker, this bill, H.R. 7,
supports paycheck fairness because
equal pay for equal work is about re-
spect, and in New Jersey we know re-
spect. I know what paycheck fairness
looks like because we just passed it in
New Jersey. It is high time that Con-
gress ensures these commonsense val-
ues for the rest of the women across
this country.
I have listened to objections raised
today that women already have protec-
tions for equal pay. Well, let me assure
you that the protections in our laws
are not adequate.
I rise today, Madam Speaker, for
women who are earning just 80 cents on
every dollar. I rise for our African
American women who are only earning
61 cents on the dollar. I rise today for
Hispanic women who are only earning
53 cents on the dollar.
Madam Speaker, I rise today for
American women and for their families
so we can give them a fair shot, like a
woman in my district who, despite
being a single mom helping to pay off
her children’s college debt, was passed
over for a raise because her male co-
worker had a family to support, or an-
other who found that she was being
paid less than her male coworkers after
years of performing the same job and
with the same seniority. And, Madam
Speaker, I am fighting today for my
two daughters so they have the same
opportunities and the same rights as
my two sons.
In the House, we know what our co-
workers are making. We can look it up.
We need our constituents to have that
same opportunity.
Madam Speaker, I have joined my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle
in the past on their motions. I believe
deeply in the need for this body to
come together today to focus on issues
that matter to our families. It is time
for my colleagues to now join me, be-
cause supporting women, supporting
families, and supporting the American
Dream is a shared value.
I know in New Jersey the equal pay
bill passed with broad bipartisan sup-
port. In fact, in the entire State senate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.085 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2874 March 27, 2019
and assembly, there were only two peo-
ple who voted against it.
If there were ever a moment, if there
were ever a bill, if there were ever a
time to put obstruction aside, it is
now. The motion put forth has nothing
to do with equal pay, and I urge my
colleagues to reject it.
Ms. WILD. Madam Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 191, noes 236,
not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 133]
AYES—191
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—236
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—4
DesJarlais
Granger
Griffith
Wilson (SC)
b 1727
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 242, nays
187, not voting 3, as follows:
[Roll No. 134]
YEAS—242
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.087 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2875
March 27, 2019
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—187
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—3
DesJarlais Granger Wilson (SC)
b 1735
Mr. POSEY changed his vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PROVIDING FOR THE EXPENSES
OF CERTAIN COMMITTEES OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES IN THE ONE HUNDRED
SIXTEENTH CONGRESS
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent to take from
the Speaker’s table H. Res. 245 and ask
for its immediate consideration in the
House.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 245
Resolved,
SECTION 1. COMMITTEE EXPENSES FOR THE ONE
HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—With respect to the One
Hundred Sixteenth Congress, there shall be
paid out of the applicable accounts of the
House of Representatives, in accordance with
this primary expense resolution, not more
than the amount specified in subsection (b)
for the expenses (including the expenses of
all staff salaries) of each committee named
in such subsection.
(b) COMMITTEES AND AMOUNTS.—The com-
mittees and amounts referred to in sub-
section (a) are: Committee on Agriculture,
$11,513,328; Committee on Armed Services,
$16,350,222; Committee on the Budget,
$10,380,424; Select Committee on the Climate
Crisis, $3,781,500; Committee on Education
and Labor, $14,578,714; Committee on Energy
and Commerce, $21,147,384; Committee on
Ethics, $7,015,392; Committee on Financial
Services, $17,077,862; Committee on Foreign
Affairs, $16,240,724; Committee on Homeland
Security, $15,308,002; Committee on House
Administration, $10,644,422; Permanent Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence, $12,463,000;
Committee on the Judiciary, $15,860,594; Se-
lect Committee on the Modernization of Con-
gress, $487,500; Committee on Natural Re-
sources, $13,895,926; Committee on Oversight
and Reform, $18,990,068; Committee on Rules,
$6,654,378; Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology, $11,079,654; Committee on Small
Business, $6,196,296; Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, $17,830,330; Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, $8,276,384; and
Committee on Ways and Means, $18,266,864.
SEC. 2. FIRST SESSION LIMITATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Of the amount provided
for in section 1 for each committee named in
subsection (b), not more than the amount
specified in such subsection shall be avail-
able for expenses incurred during the period
beginning at noon on January 3, 2019, and
ending immediately before noon on January
3, 2020.
(b) COMMITTEES AND AMOUNTS.—The com-
mittees and amounts referred to in sub-
section (a) are: Committee on Agriculture,
$5,756,664; Committee on Armed Services,
$8,175,111; Committee on the Budget,
$5,190,212; Select Committee on the Climate
Crisis, $1,890,750; Committee on Education
and Labor, $7,289,357; Committee on Energy
and Commerce, $10,573,692; Committee on
Ethics, $3,507,696; Committee on Financial
Services, $8,538,931; Committee on Foreign
Affairs, $8,120,362; Committee on Homeland
Security, $7,654,001; Committee on House Ad-
ministration, $5,172,211; Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence, $6,231,500; Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, $7,930,297; Select
Committee on the Modernization of Con-
gress, $450,000; Committee on Natural Re-
sources, $6,947,963; Committee on Oversight
and Reform, $9,495,034; Committee on Rules,
$3,327,189; Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology, $5,539,827; Committee on Small
Business, $3,098,148; Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, $8,915,165; Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, $4,138,192; and
Committee on Ways and Means, $9,133,432.
SEC. 3. SECOND SESSION LIMITATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Of the amount provided
for in section 1 for each committee named in
subsection (b), not more than the amount
specified in such subsection shall be avail-
able for expenses incurred during the period
beginning at noon on January 3, 2020, and
ending immediately before noon on January
3, 2021.
(b) COMMITTEES AND AMOUNTS.—The com-
mittees and amounts referred to in sub-
section (a) are: Committee on Agriculture,
$5,756,664; Committee on Armed Services,
$8,175,111; Committee on the Budget,
$5,190,212; Select Committee on the Climate
Crisis, $1,890,750; Committee on Education
and Labor, $7,289,357; Committee on Energy
and Commerce, $10,573,692; Committee on
Ethics, $3,507,696; Committee on Financial
Services, $8,538,931; Committee on Foreign
Affairs, $8,120,362; Committee on Homeland
Security, $7,654,001; Committee on House Ad-
ministration, $5,472,211; Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence, $6,231,500; Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, $7,930,297; Select
Committee on the Modernization of Con-
gress, $37,500; Committee on Natural Re-
sources, $6,947,963; Committee on Oversight
and Reform, $9,495,034; Committee on Rules,
$3,327,189; Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology, $5,539,827; Committee on Small
Business, $3,098,148; Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, $8,915,165; Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, $4,138,192; and
Committee on Ways and Means, $9,133,432.
(c) REVIEW OF USE OF FUNDS IN FIRST
SESSION.—
(1) REVIEW.—None of the amounts pro-
vided for in section 1 for a committee named
in subsection (b) may be available for ex-
penses of the committee after March 15, 2020,
unless the chair or ranking minority mem-
ber of the committee appears and presents
testimony at a hearing of the Committee on
House Administration held prior to such
date to review the committee’s use of the
amounts provided for in section 1 during the
first session of the One Hundred Sixteenth
Congress and to determine whether the
amount specified in subsection (b) with re-
spect to the committee should be updated on
the basis of the review.
(2) WAIVER.—The Committee on House
Administration may waive the application of
paragraph (1) to any or all of the committees
named in subsection (b).
SEC. 4. VOUCHERS.
Payments under this resolution shall be
made on vouchers authorized by the com-
mittee involved, signed by the chair of such
committee, and approved in the manner di-
rected by the Committee on House Adminis-
tration.
SEC. 5. REGULATIONS.
Amounts made available under this reso-
lution shall be expended in accordance with
regulations prescribed by the Committee on
House Administration.
SEC. 6. RESERVE FUND FOR UNANTICIPATED EX-
PENSES.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is hereby es-
tablished a reserve fund for unanticipated
expenses of committees for the One Hundred
Sixteenth Congress.
(b) AMOUNT.—The reserve fund under this
section shall have a balance of $8,000,000, of
which—
(1) $1,500,000 shall be available for unan-
ticipated expenses incurred during the period
beginning at noon on January 3, 2019, and
ending immediately before noon on January
3, 2020; and
(2) $6,500,000 shall be available for unan-
ticipated expenses incurred during the period
beginning at noon on January 3, 2020, and
ending immediately before noon on January
3, 2021.
(c) ALLOCATION TO COMMITTEES.—
Amounts in the reserve fund under this sec-
tion shall be paid to a committee pursuant
to an allocation approved by the Committee
on House Administration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.030 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2876 March 27, 2019
SEC. 7. ADJUSTMENT AUTHORITY.
The Committee on House Administration
shall have authority to make adjustments in
amounts under section 1, if necessary to
comply with an order of the President issued
under section 251A or 254 of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985 or to conform to any change in appro-
priations for the purposes of such section 1.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
the Committee on the Judiciary be dis-
charged from further consideration of
H.R. 962, the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act, a commonsense
bill to protect the smallest and most
vulnerable among us, and ask for its
immediate consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, if this unanimous consent re-
quest can’t be entertained, I urge the
Speaker and the majority leader to im-
mediately schedule the Born-Alive bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate at
this time.
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. I would
ask that the——
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate at
this time.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 1735
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to have my name
removed as a cosponsor of H.R. 1735.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Wisconsin?
There was no objection.
f
AUTHORIZING THE SPEAKER TO
DECLARE A RECESS ON WEDNES-
DAY, APRIL 3, 2019, FOR THE
PURPOSE OF RECEIVING IN
JOINT MEETING HIS EXCEL-
LENCY JENS STOLTENBERG,
SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE
NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY OR-
GANIZATION
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that it may be in
order at any time on Wednesday, April
3, 2019, for the Speaker to declare a re-
cess, subject to the call of the Chair,
for the purpose of receiving in joint
meeting His Excellency Jens
Stoltenberg, Secretary General of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
CRAIG). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from New Jer-
sey?
There was no objection.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
f
HONORING FLORENCE M. JOHNSON
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor a community leader
from Essex County, New Jersey, Ms.
Florence M. Johnson. Ms. Johnson has
been an exceptional leader across Essex
County for the past four decades.
In the 1970s, she cofounded a housing
development in East Orange, New Jer-
sey, that was designed, built, and man-
aged by African Americans—one of the
first of its kind.
In the 1980s and 1990s, she was a trail-
blazing member of East Orange City
Council.
In 2000, she joined the New Jersey
Symphony Orchestra as an outreach
and community engagement leader. At
the New Jersey Symphony, Ms. John-
son led outreach to schools, churches,
senior centers, and other organizations
in order to make sure that the arts
benefit everyone in the community.
This evening, she is being honored as
a Hidden Figure in East Orange, New
Jersey.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to join me in honoring Ms. Florence M.
Johnson for her leadership.
f
HONORING VIETNAM VETERANS
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, tomorrow is National
Vietnam War Veterans Day.
Madam Speaker, 46 years ago, March
29, 1973, the last combat troops were or-
dered out of Vietnam; and just 2 years
ago, we designated March 29 as a na-
tional day to honor our Vietnam vet-
erans.
Madam Speaker, in many instances,
our Vietnam veterans often did not re-
ceive a warm welcome home when they
returned from war. There were no pa-
rades, no welcome back ceremonies.
Our Vietnam veterans, many of
whom were drafted, answered the Na-
tion’s call and served with honor and
distinction.
Vietnam veterans constructed their
own memorial here in Washington,
built entirely by private donations and
dedicated to the 2.7 million service-
members who served during the Viet-
nam war.
Madam Speaker, we all know some-
one who served in Vietnam. These vet-
erans are our friends, our family, and
neighbors. It is long overdue to salute
them for their service, but it is not too
late. This weekend, I will proudly be at
the Cambria County War Memorial to
mark this special day.
May God bless our Vietnam war vet-
erans today, tomorrow, and every day.
Welcome home.
f
b 1745
SALTON SEA DROUGHT
CONTINGENCY PLAN
(Mr. RUIZ asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. RUIZ. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to address concerns about the
Colorado River drought contingency
plan and to sound the alarm and avoid
a public health crisis at the Salton Sea
in southern California.
To be clear, I support the goals of the
DCP, which outlines voluntary water
use cuts across seven Western States in
the event of a worsening drought. How-
ever, I am concerned that the current
proposal to implement the DCP pro-
vides an expansive waiver to the Bu-
reau of Reclamation that could result
in the reduction of water to the Salton
Sea.
The Salton Sea is the largest inland
body of water in all of California, and
its very existence is already at risk.
Ensuring the Salton Sea is protected as
part of this agreement is critically im-
portant because, if the Salton Sea de-
cline accelerates, thousands of lake
beds will become exposed, subjecting
residents of southern California to
harmful dust that penetrates the lungs
and can cause severe respiratory ill-
ness.
I look forward to working with the
Natural Resources Committee to find a
solution that prevents a broad waiver
of Federal laws and that preserves
water rights and critical environ-
mental protections for its surrounding
residents.
Madam Speaker, I support the goals
of the DCP. However, I cannot in good
conscience support implementation in
a way that harms the Salton Sea or
threatens the health of the people I
serve.
f
CONSEQUENCES OF AIR FORCE
RUNNING OUT OF OPERATION
AND MAINTENANCE FUNDING
(Mr. GAETZ asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GAETZ. Madam Speaker, I rise
to raise the concerns of Floridians and
Georgians who still await a supple-
mental appropriation from the Con-
gress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.033 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2877
March 27, 2019
Every other major storm and disaster
received a supplemental appropriation,
but for some reason, victims of Hurri-
cane Michael remain waiting.
The Air Force, expecting an appro-
priation, began the process of rebuild-
ing Tyndall Air Force Base. This morn-
ing, the Air Force put out news that
they have run out of O&M funds.
What does this mean? It means that,
as of this morning, we have deferred 61
required facility projects at bases in 18
States across our country.
It means that, on May 1, we will stop
work on Tyndall Air Force Base, fail-
ing to meet our obligations to rebuild.
It means that, on May 15, the Air
Force will cut aircraft repairs, poten-
tially endangering our pilots’ safety
when flying and limiting their training
capacity.
Ultimately, it means that, on Sep-
tember 1, we will cut 18,000 training
flying hours.
This is unacceptable in the current
global environment. We must act now
to ensure that the men and women
serving in the Air Force are furnished
with the tools to accomplish their mis-
sions.
This is our job as the Congress, and
we need to do it immediately, since
there are very few legislative days re-
maining before the Easter break.
f
WORLD WATER DAY
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, I rise
to commemorate World Water Day,
just celebrated on March 22.
Water sustains life on Earth. It is
critical to health, sanitation, food pro-
duction, and the economy at large.
Tragically, over 2 billion people
around our world lack access to safe
drinking water, a humanitarian crisis.
Some live in our country.
Limited access to freshwater is an
ever-increasing risk to our national se-
curity as nations go to war over this
precious resource. Meanwhile, terrorist
organizations seek to control water re-
sources to finance their destabilizing
activities. That is why we must fully
fund U.S. diplomatic leadership, to en-
sure that the looming conflicts over
water can be nipped in the bud.
My own constituents in northern
Ohio are acutely aware of how precious
access to clean water can be. In the
summer of 2014, fertilizer runoff led to
massive clusters of harmful algae
blooms in Lake Erie, compromising
water supplies to over half a million
residents of Toledo. Flint, Michigan,
shortly thereafter, endured its own
water crisis.
As the Appropriations Committee’s
Energy and Water Development, and
Related Agencies Subcommittee chair,
I can assure you that our committee is
working tirelessly to fight for im-
proved infrastructure, environmental
protections, and access to clean water.
Together, we will meet this crisis in
our country and abroad and allow the
vital human right for freshwater to be-
long to everyone.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
BARBARA RICCA
(Mr. JOYCE of Ohio asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize the passing of
a dear friend and a model public serv-
ant from my district, Ms. Barbara
Ricca of Newbury Township in Geauga
County. Ms. Ricca passed away peace-
fully on Saturday morning, March 23,
at the age of 95.
Barb proudly served as the legal sec-
retary for Geauga County for over 30
years. She worked under five different
prosecutors from both parties. In fact,
when I became prosecutor, Barbara was
my very first secretary.
She worked tirelessly until her re-
tirement, but Barb did not retire from
life. She worked just as hard as a vol-
unteer at University Hospitals Geauga
Medical Center and could be found
baling hay on their family farm.
For relaxation, she played in the
Great Geauga County Fair Band, of
which she had been an original charter
member since 1938. Most recently, I had
the honor of pinning Barb at the
Geauga County Fair to commemorate
her 80th year of playing in the fair
band.
Barb will not only be missed by her
loving family and friends but by the
entire Geauga County community.
May Barbara Ricca rest in peace.
f
CONGRATULATING FULLERTON
COLLEGE BASKETBALL TEAM
(Mr. CORREA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, to my
right is a picture of champs. I con-
gratulate the Fullerton College men’s
basketball team for winning the State
championship this last weekend.
This victory marks Fullerton Col-
lege’s fourth State championship title,
but the first since 2006. This awesome
performance is thanks to Coach Perry
Webster and tournament MVP Lance
Coleman, sophomore Rodrick McCobb,
and the rest of the talented players.
I am honored to recognize these fine
young men. These players are going to
be role models, and they are going to
be leaders in our community. These
men have learned a lesson, which is
that hard work and determination pay
off.
These are our State champions. Con-
gratulations to Coach Webster and the
Hornets. They have earned this vic-
tory.
Go Hornets.
f
CONGRATULATING LAKELAND
CHRISTIAN SCHOOL MOCK TRIAL
TEAM
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the Lakeland
Christian School Mock Trial team for
winning second place in the Florida
High School Mock Trial Competition.
The team previously won first place
in regionals and went on to win not
only second place among all teams in
Florida but also the Stephen
Shenkman Professionalism Award and
the Best Attorney award, which was
granted to Abby Branham.
In addition to Abby, the team in-
cluded Ama Fosu, Annie Bolter, Trent
Curtis, Keaton Walding, Jace Gravitt,
Faith Nagy, Emily Branham, Lucy
Bolter, Seth Martinez, Tag Hunt, Riley
Rhoden, Carter Sawicki, Haley Caylor,
and Aline Peek.
These students dedicated many hours
of hard work and preparation to learn
the facts of their case and present
them thoughtfully in the competition.
I am confident the knowledge they
gained will help them become active
members of our community in college
and beyond.
Their success comes not only from
their own hard work but also from the
mentors who guided them through the
process. The talented students were
coached by Chasity Branham, professor
of criminal justice at Polk State Col-
lege, and Judge Melissa Gravitt, who
recently assumed the bench for Flor-
ida’s 10th Judicial Circuit.
These women took many hours out of
their busy schedules to impart their
passion for justice to these students. I
appreciate all that they do. Our next
generation is made better by their
service.
f
HONORING THE CAREER OF JUDGE
RAMON GARCIA
(Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the ca-
reer and service of a gentleman, the
Honorable Ramon Garcia.
Judge Garcia recently completed his
third term as the Hidalgo County
judge, serving with honor and distinc-
tion during his tenure. Judge Garcia
was first elected in 2002. At the end of
his tenure in 2006, Judge Garcia left Hi-
dalgo County in the best financial posi-
tion it had ever been in, in its history.
Judge Garcia returned for a second
round as Hidalgo County judge, being
elected for a second term in 2010, and a
third term in 2014, having served until
this year in 2019.
His leadership and fiscally respon-
sible policies have paved the way for
Hidalgo County to construct a much-
needed county courthouse. The Hidalgo
County Commissioners Court officially
named the courthouse’s law library the
‘‘Hidalgo County Judge Ramon Garcia
Law Library,’’ paying homage to his
positive contributions to Hidalgo Coun-
ty.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.095 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2878 March 27, 2019
Ramon Garcia was born in 1948 at the
old McAllen General Hospital, the cur-
rent location of McAllen City Hall. He
graduated with honors from the Uni-
versity of Houston, Bates College of
Law, in 1972, and passed the State bar
the same year.
He began practicing in 1973 with Joe
B. Evins, who was an attorney at the
time but would later go on to be the
State district judge in our county.
Recently, Judge Garcia formed a coa-
lition of community leaders to plan for
the 2020 Census and ensure that Hi-
dalgo County is accurately counted.
The coalition’s work is recognized
statewide and by other city and county
governments that are facing similar
situations.
Today, Hidalgo County continues its
fight for representation and entitle-
ment funds, and they owe many thanks
to Judge Garcia for his tireless work.
Madam Speaker, Judge Garcia is a
pillar in our community. There are
many reasons to admire the work of
Judge Garcia. I personally thank the
judge for his exemplary work in gov-
ernment, but I most admire his trial
and advocacy skills that he has used to
advocate for south Texas.
He has challenged the status quo as a
litigator and as our county judge to
the benefit of south Texans. It is a
privilege to represent resilient, hard-
working individuals like him.
f
RECOGNIZING CINCINNATI
MOELLER CRUSADERS
(Mr. CHABOT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CHABOT. Madam Speaker, the
Cincinnati Moeller Crusaders have
done it again, back-to-back Ohio Divi-
sion I basketball champs 2 years in a
row.
The Crusaders defeated the strong
Akron Saint Vincent-Saint Mary team
over the weekend, 52–44, to take the
championship.
Moeller was undefeated this season
going 29–0. In fact, going back to last
season, it is their 49th win in a row in
a league and a State known for great
high school basketball teams.
As a graduate of a Greater Catholic
League rival school, La Salle, I have to
acknowledge that Moeller is strong in
just about everything. In fact, my sen-
ior year at La Salle, Moeller was the
only team to beat us in football, even
with me anchoring the La Salle defen-
sive line.
To Moeller’s players, especially the
seniors who will be graduating, the
coaches, parents, teachers, and fans,
congratulations. I wish them all the
best in the future—unless, of course,
they are playing my alma mater, La
Salle.
f
REPEALING AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT WOULD HAVE HARMFUL RE-
PERCUSSIONS
(Mr. NEGUSE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker,
today, I want to share the story of a
family in my district. In 2015, the
Cerrato family was in the NICU, fight-
ing for the life of their son Ethan. At
just 10 days old, he had undergone two
major surgeries, had been the subject
of dozens of procedures, and had spent
the first days of his life traumatized
and struggling through pain.
After only 10 days, the Cerrato fam-
ily had accumulated a hospital bill of
over $250,000. While little Ethan was
fighting for his life, Christine and Mat-
thew Cerrato were grappling with the
thought of filing for bankruptcy.
At this moment, the question be-
came: What could they rely on? The
answer was the Affordable Care Act,
which was passed into law this week 9
years ago.
Earlier this week, the Department of
Justice called on the Federal courts to
overturn the ACA in its entirety, the
latest attack from this administration
on the affordable healthcare of mil-
lions of families, including many in my
State of Colorado and in my district.
These relentless efforts to repeal this
law would have harmful impacts on
families across the country, like the
Cerrato family.
We cannot move backward on the
progress we have made to provide af-
fordable healthcare to American fami-
lies. Instead, we must move forward to
lower drug prices, to lower the cost of
healthcare, and to ensure that Colo-
rado families and families all over
America can get the care they need.
f
HONORING CHER KONDOR
(Mr. SMUCKER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker,
March is Women’s History Month, and
I am proud to honor some remarkable
women in my district.
Today, I am recognizing Ms. Cher
Kondor, who I had the honor of meet-
ing just recently. Cher is a Gold Star
mother. Her son, Martin Kondor, was a
U.S. Army specialist killed in Baqubah,
Iraq, in 2004.
Of course, Ms. Kondor was dev-
astated, but she decided to do some-
thing in his honor and in honor of all
the other veterans who have served,
particularly those who have sacrificed
their lives for our freedom.
She created a memorial veterans gar-
den called the Gold Star Garden in
York County and has raised, since the
time it was created, nearly $1 million
for the garden. This beautiful, living
monument is a gathering place for
those who want to commemorate and
remember the fallen and celebrate the
lives of our sons and daughters who
volunteered to protect this country.
Ms. Kondor honors our Nation’s vet-
erans, and it is a privilege to recognize
her contribution to our community on
the House floor today.
We are thankful for her example and
for her continued awareness of the sac-
rifices of those who have fought for us
and for our freedom.
I am proud to honor Ms. Kondor.
f
b 1800
BIPARTISANSHIP
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker, I
am grateful for the opportunity to
speak to the Members of the House. We
are all here because the American peo-
ple made it so.
The diversity of our Nation’s polit-
ical ideals is boundless. That is what
made our country what it is today. We
are here to represent these vast ideals.
The definition of bipartisanship is of
or involving the agreement or coopera-
tion of two political parties that usu-
ally oppose each other’s policies. It is
about cooperation, it is about com-
promise, and it is about working to-
gether with those who don’t have the
same exact ideals as you.
I am asking for the membership of
this House to think on the idea of bi-
partisanship. It is my belief that we
owe it to the American people to work
together.
f
MUELLER INVESTIGATION
(Mr. MEUSER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, we,
our country, over the past 2 years have
lived through persistent and daily ac-
cusations against our President of Rus-
sian collusion in his election, accusa-
tions made by many Democrats and
the media. Our President was accused
of nothing short of high crimes and
misdemeanors.
A 2-year, thorough investigation was
carried out. Last Friday, perhaps the
most thorough investigation in recent
history concluded. The investigation
enjoyed not only complete, unlimited
access to witnesses, but the resources
of the entire Federal Government, in-
cluding the Department of Justice, the
FBI, and the intelligence community.
The Mueller investigation reached a
conclusion that no Russian collusion
took place nor was there any evidence
of any participation by any persons in
the campaign.
The verdict is in. Nevertheless, our
Democrat colleagues continue to talk
about a further investigation. Any fur-
ther investigations would not have the
fraction of resources of the Mueller in-
vestigation.
I ask: Seriously? Another investiga-
tion? This one was not enough? Or are
we prolonging for the sake of pro-
longing this issue?
We owe it to the American people to
accept the facts from a 2-year inves-
tigation, move on, and do the work we
were sent here to do. We owe this to
the American people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.097 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2879
March 27, 2019
ISRAEL: AMERICA’S
INDISPENSABLE ALLY
(Mr. GREEN of Tennessee asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in support of
America’s indispensable ally, Israel.
Israel is the brightest beacon of hope
and freedom in the Middle East.
I proudly attended AIPAC’s policy
conference this week. Their mission is
more important than ever.
Anti-Semitism and anti-Israel senti-
ment is rampant across the world and,
sadly, is found even in this Chamber. I
am appalled one of my colleagues is so
brazen as to resurrect old lies of Jewish
conspiracies, propaganda used to op-
press the Jewish people for centuries.
Elsewhere, Iran’s puppet, Assad,
seeks to take Israel’s land for strategic
leverage in Iran’s mission to wipe
Israel off the map.
I am proud to stand with President
Trump in defense of our ally, Israel. I
am grateful he chose to recognize the
Golan Heights as a part of Israel and
proud we now officially recognize Jeru-
salem as Israel’s capital.
f
HONORING ROY BENAVIDEZ
(Mr. CLOUD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor and recognize Master
Sergeant Roy Benavidez. On the occa-
sion of the Roy P. Benavidez Memorial
Highway dedication, my district is
proud to claim this Medal of Honor re-
cipient as our own.
Sergeant Benavidez answered the call
to serve his country in Vietnam. At
one crucial time while overseas, he vol-
untarily boarded a rescue helicopter
and put his own life on the line to save
his fellow soldiers.
During the rescue effort, he was shot
multiple times, bayoneted, and hit by
grenade fragments as he fought for 6
hours to protect his wounded com-
rades. He saved the lives of at least
eight men.
After returning home, he went before
Congress to advocate for better veteran
healthcare. He then devoted the rest of
his life to service, speaking to students
about the importance of education and
inspiring American troops around the
world.
May this highway serve as a memo-
rial to this brave and selfless Amer-
ican, Master Sergeant Roy Benavidez.
f
NO ONE IS ABOVE THE LAW
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. TLAIB) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the ma-
jority leader.
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I grew
up in the district I serve where I have
seen firsthand the results of the failing
to hold those in power accountable to
the laws of the land. From corporate
polluters who continue to violate the
Clean Air Act with no real enforcement
to stop the violations that hurt our
public health, I have also seen first-
hand a megabillionaire who directly
violated Federal and State processes
that resulted in thousands of trucks to
rumble through our local neighbor-
hoods where one in five children have
asthma.
Do you know why those in power
looked the other way? Because of polit-
ical influence on my colleagues who
then became conflicted.
This is why I rise today to put for-
ward H. Res. 257, which creates a trans-
parent process to ensure the protection
of our democracy. That ensures that
we don’t have a lawless society that re-
sults in irreparable harm to the Amer-
ican people.
Doing nothing when we are seeing a
blatant disregard of the United States
Constitution and our ethical norms is
dangerous. No one, Madam Speaker, in-
cluding the President of the United
States, is above the law.
I know many have focused on actions
that were conducted prior to his taking
the oath of office, and that is impor-
tant. However, as critically important
are the actions by the President after
he swore to uphold the United States
Constitution before all of us.
He is not a CEO, Madam Speaker,
anymore, but a public servant who is
held accountable not to shareholders
and investors, but the actual American
people, real people, people who expect
all of us to follow the laws.
In the 2 years since he took office,
President Trump racked up more than
1,400 conflicts of interest involving the
government, those trying to influence
it and The Trump Organization, ac-
cording to a report released by the
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics
in Washington.
President Trump used the Presidency
to enrich himself by repeatedly pro-
moting his businesses as extensions of
his administration. Political allies,
wealthy donors, special interests, and
foreign governments have adopted a
key tactic of patronizing Trump’s busi-
nesses to garner favor with the Trump
administration.
Here are some of the key findings
from CREW’s tracking of Trump’s con-
flicts of interest:
President Trump made 118 visits to
his properties in his second year in of-
fice, bringing his 2-year total to 281 vis-
its to properties he still profits from
while serving as President of the
United States.
In his second year in office, President
Trump and other White House staff
promoted Trump businesses on at least
87 occasions. More than 150 political
committees, including campaigns and
party committees, have spent nearly $5
million at Trump businesses since he
became President. At least 13 special
interest groups lobbied the White
House since Trump’s inauguration,
some for the first time, around the
same time they also patronized a
Trump property.
At least three foreign governments
held events at Trump properties during
Trump’s second year in office. Two of
those countries did so after holding
similar events elsewhere in previous
years.
Not only has President Trump still
refused to divest from his businesses,
he seems to have doubled down by rein-
forcing the idea that The Trump Orga-
nization is an extension of the Trump
administration.
These offenses must be investigated.
In total, CREW found more than 900
conflicts in the second year of the
Trump administration. This presents a
clear picture of a Presidency used to
turn a profit and the President’s busi-
nesses serving at points of access to
the corridors of power.
This report shows that special inter-
ests, foreign governments, and political
allies continue to pour money into
Trump’s bank accounts while the
American public is left in the dark
about whether or not the President’s
policy decisions are made in the best
interests of our country, or is it in the
best interests of the President’s bot-
tom line, benefiting himself personally.
We have been sent here to legislate. I
am thinking about the historic For the
People Act we passed right here in this
Chamber, the gun reform package we
passed, legislation to protect our lands,
to increase and strengthen healthcare
for Americans, and much more.
I am proud of my first bills. One pro-
tects our public health in regards to
petroleum coke exposure, and the
other, which has a wide range of sup-
port, would prohibit the use of credit
scores by the auto insurance industry.
However, Madam Speaker, none of
these bills is free from the harm that
comes from the current administration
and the President of the United States
not complying with the clauses of the
United States Constitution. When
these conflicts and direct violations to
the Emoluments Clause are not inves-
tigated, we set a dangerous precedent
that those issues we passed in this
Chamber are not important.
I think about the recent announce-
ment that T-Mobile and Sprint would
like the Federal Government to ap-
prove a merger between the two com-
panies. In the same breath, T-Mobile
spent close to $200,000 at the D.C.
Trump hotel. This is what we call an
upgraded version of pay to play, and it
dangerously corrupts our democracy.
When President Truman sidestepped
the Constitution and went to war,
every sitting President had done the
same. One of the first major challenges
to the War Powers Act came in 1981
when President Reagan deployed mili-
tary personnel to El Salvador without
consulting or submitting a report to
Congress.
In 1999, President Clinton continued
a bombing campaign in Kosovo beyond
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.099 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2880 March 27, 2019
the 60-day limit cited in the law. A
more recent War Powers Act dispute
arose in 2011 when President Barack
Obama initiated a military action in
Libya without congressional
authorization.
You see, Madam Speaker, when we do
nothing, we set a precedent and allow
it to become the norm. I can’t stress
enough how dangerous this is to the
core of our democracy.
This will not be the last billionaire
CEO who runs for President who will
attempt to not divest from his business
interests.
Now, what we have witnessed from
this administration are acts that could
very well be impeachable offenses out-
side of the scope of the Mueller inves-
tigation. We have a duty in this Cham-
ber to inquire about these acts, to in-
vestigate them, to find out if there was
any wrongdoing, and to seek account-
ability if it has been found.
That is why, today, I have introduced
a resolution that calls on the Judiciary
Committee to inquire into these activi-
ties that may be impeachable offenses.
There are serious pieces of evidence
out there, many that have come
through the various committees of this
body, in the media, and things within
the public eye. An investigation will
take a look at all of those things with
the question: Are these impeachable of-
fenses? Is our President acting above
the rule of law?
As Congress, we have a job to ensure
that is exactly what is not happening.
If, at the end, it gets the President to
comply, then we have done our job. If
the President doesn’t, then we move
forward and, at the very least, put any
future President on notice: Congress
will hold you accountable and will re-
quire you to divest in your businesses.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
IMPEACHMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GREEN) is recognized for the re-
mainder of the hour as the designee of
the majority leader.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, it is always an honor to stand in the
well of the House of Representatives.
Each time I am afforded this oppor-
tunity, I have tried to savor the mo-
ment knowing that it is not eternal
and knowing that, at some point, we
will no longer have this preeminent
privilege. But I do appreciate having
the opportunity to serve the people of
the Ninth Congressional District and
to serve my country. I love my coun-
try.
I thank the gentlewoman for what
she has done with H. Res. 257. I support
this resolution, and I would like to
compliment the lady for what she has
done since she has arrived in Congress.
b 1815
She has truly hit the ground running.
She came from the State house. She is
a lawyer. She has been an advocate,
and she understands the issues associ-
ated with criminal justice. So I thank
her for what she has done and what she
is doing with this resolution.
Madam Speaker, it was never in-
tended for the executive branch of the
government to investigate itself.
The Framers of the Constitution, in
Federalist 65, addressed this. Federalist
65, the Federalist Papers.
I invite people to please read the Fed-
eralist Papers. If you can’t read them
all, just read Federalist 65 and 69.
Some things are made perspicuously
clear. One of the things made clear is
that impeachment is solely within the
province of the House of Representa-
tives.
Madison, the fourth President of the
United States of America; Jay, the
first Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court; and Hamilton, the first Sec-
retary of the Treasury of the United
States of America—these are the au-
thors of the Federalist Papers, and
they were prophetic with some of their
writings.
While I would not agree with all that
they did in their lifetimes, I will tell
you that what they have done with ref-
erence to impeachment is prophetic,
because they understood that at some
point you could have a President who
was unfit to hold office, but who had
not committed a crime but should be
removed from office before the next
election because of the harm the Presi-
dent is imposing upon society.
Understanding this, they were in sup-
port of Article II, Section 4 of the Con-
stitution, which deals with treason,
bribery, and other high crimes and mis-
demeanors as the means by which a
President can be removed from office
after having been elected.
They understood that there might be
a time such as this and a President
such as Trump.
They understood that we, the Mem-
bers of this august body, should be em-
powered such that we could take up the
cause of the American people. Not be-
cause we are Democrats, because it is
not about Democrats; it is about de-
mocracy. Not because we are Repub-
licans, because it is not about Repub-
licans; it is about the Republic and
what Franklin said when he called to
our attention: You have a Republic if
you can keep it.
It is about maintaining this Repub-
lic. They were prophetic. They under-
stood that you cannot allow the execu-
tive branch to investigate itself, be-
cause if you allow such to happen, you
find yourself with what has happened
with Mr. Mueller.
He has investigated, but he cannot
hand it over to us because he is an
agent of the executive branch of gov-
ernment. And, as an agent of the exec-
utive branch of government, he is re-
quired to submit his report to the exec-
utive branch, a report that is all about
the head of the executive branch of the
government.
This is why the Framers understood
that it was necessary to empower an-
other branch of government to do this.
How prophetic and how wise they were
to do so.
It was not intended that we would
outsource this investigation to the ex-
ecutive branch, which is, in essence,
what has occurred. We have allowed
the executive branch to assume what is
truly the responsibility and the duty
and the obligation of the House of Rep-
resentatives.
This is ours. This is what we must do.
When there was a Republican admin-
istration in this House, I indicated that
I wouldn’t get in the way of that inves-
tigation, but I also indicated that the
House should do its job.
And if the House is to do its job, it is
contemplated that the Judiciary Com-
mittee would do exactly what the Rep-
resentative from the 13th Congres-
sional District in Michigan is doing
now and, that is, take up the question
of impeachment in the Judiciary Com-
mittee by way of a resolution such as
what she has called to the attention of
this Congress.
I salute her for doing so because this
is what was contemplated by the Fram-
ers of the Constitution. This is what
Madison contemplated, Jay con-
templated, and Hamilton con-
templated.
And, to give further evidence of what
they contemplated, we but only have
to review the impeachment in 1868 of
Andrew Johnson.
Andrew Johnson was impeached in
Article X of the Articles of Impeach-
ment against him for speaking ill of
Congress.
There is no requirement that the
President commit a crime, that the
President commit an offense for which
he must be found guilty beyond a rea-
sonable doubt before a President can be
impeached.
Congress determines what the stand-
ard is for impeachment. Unfortunately,
we have allowed what happens on the
judicial side of the law to be conflated
with what happens on the political side
of the law.
The judiciary, or the judicial side,
would have a crime. This is what Mr.
Mueller was investigating, to see if a
crime had been committed—a crime.
And, if a crime is committed, of course
the President can be impeached for
committing a crime.
But the President can also be im-
peached if he has not committed a
crime, but he is doing harm to society.
This is the law.
When we say no person is above the
law, we are talking about not only the
law as it is codified with reference to
criminality, but also the law as it has
been codified such that impeachment
can be the punishment in the sense
that the President would be indicted.
It is not the same as an indictment,
but it is quite similar, and the Presi-
dent would then have to face trial in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.100 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2881
March 27, 2019
the Senate, presided over by the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court.
There is no punishment, per se, with
this entire process. It is just a means
by which a President is removed from
office. And, if he has committed a
crime, he can, of course, still be pros-
ecuted for the criminal activity.
So, tonight, we are here to thank the
Member for what she has done in filing
this resolution, H. Res. 257. We are here
tonight to acknowledge that the Fram-
ers of the Constitution contemplated
what she has done. She is in order.
We are here tonight to acknowledge
that it is now within the hands of the
Judiciary Committee, this resolution,
and it is my prayer that the Judiciary
Committee would take this resolution
and bring it to a vote.
I believe that it is time for us to do
what the Constitution contemplates by
way of the words of the Framers and by
way of what Federalist 65 has called to
our attention.
However, I still stand tonight where I
stood when I initially took to the floor
of the House of Representatives and in-
dicated that this President should be
impeached. I stand where I stood then,
and I also stand on the premise that, if
the Judiciary Committee does not act,
any Member of this august body can
bring impeachment to a vote.
I stand on this. This is what the rules
allow. And as a Member of Congress, I
have given an assurance that there will
be another vote on impeachment in the
House of Representatives.
I will do it. I don’t like using per-
sonal pronouns because my mother al-
ways said: ‘‘Alexander, whatever you
will do, you will do with others.’’
But, because of the way the process
is codified, I will do it because I love
my country.
I will do it because I understand that
we have a person who is unfit to be
President holding this office.
I will do it because I want to protect
the democracy.
I will do it because I believe in the
Republic.
I will do it because I salute the flag
and I believe in liberty and justice for
all.
I will do it because I believe that Lin-
coln was right when he spoke of gov-
ernment of the people, by the people,
for the people being forever a part of
our country, our land.
I will do it because it is the appro-
priate thing to do at a time such as
this, with a President such as Trump.
And finally this, Madam Speaker, I
have not suggested that I have whipped
or would whip, meaning encourage oth-
ers to vote a certain way. I have con-
sistently said you should vote your
conscience.
I still stand by it. Vote your con-
science. Vote your conscience, knowing
that, at some point on the infinite con-
tinuum that we call time—at some
point on the infinite continuum that
we call time, there will be people who
will review our actions through the
vista of time.
And, when they review our actions,
the query will be: What did they do
when they had an opportunity to take
up the cause of justice?
They will want to know what did we
do. And the only way they can know
what we did is for there to be a vote.
At some point, we have to move be-
yond talking points to action items.
The only way to make this an action
item is for there to be a vote.
And those who look through the vista
of time, perhaps generations unborn,
when they look through the vista of
time, they will want to see the record.
And the record will show where we
stood when we had the opportunity to
remove an unfit person from office, an
unfit President.
The record will show where we stood,
but, more importantly, it will give
them some clues as to what was hap-
pening in this House at the time. It
will give them some evidence of where
we were.
And I assure you, Madam Speaker, at
some point on this infinite continuum,
people are going to ask the question:
What was wrong with them? What was
wrong with them?
They had a President who was sepa-
rating babies from their mothers at the
border, with no means of reuniting
them.
Babies are still separated from their
parents.
They will want to know: What was
wrong with them? They allowed this?
They will want to know: How could
you decide that you are going to take
up the cause against persons who make
commentary in the House, but you
won’t take up the cause against a
President who went so far as to say
there were some fine people among the
bigots, the racists, the xenophobes, the
homophobes, the Islamophobes, the na-
tivists; among those persons who
marched and proclaimed ‘‘Jews will not
replace us,’’ persons who said, ‘‘blood
and soil.’’
How could you allow this to go un-
challenged?
They will want to know: What was
wrong with them? Why would they
allow such a person to continue in of-
fice, a person who demeans the country
when he demeans its heroes, a person
who demeans persons by simply decid-
ing that name-calling is more appro-
priate than debating issues.
And, by the way, calling a person
who is a bigot a bigot is not name-call-
ing. That is properly labeling the ac-
tions of a person, the behavior of a per-
son.
And, by the way, for those who may
not have paid attention, if you have
been following these various TV pro-
grams, news programs, information
sources, host after host, persons who
are being interviewed, have said that
the President is a racist. They have
said that the President is a bigot.
I understand that it is difficult for
some to say. Not for me. Not for me. I
know what bigotry looks like. I know
what racism smells like. I know what
it sounds like. I know what it tastes
like. I suffered through it.
b 1830
I would not want to see what I had to
endure become a part of the fiber and
fabric of this country ever again.
Whenever we see evidence of this ugli-
ness rearing its head, we should do
what we can to stare it down and stop
it.
I stand here tonight believing that
we have a duty, a responsibility, and
an obligation to allow what this Con-
gresswoman has called to our attention
to move forward. I stand on the Con-
stitution in saying this, and I will
stand with her. I am proud to be associ-
ated with her and what she is doing.
When we do bring this to a vote, my
hope is that every Member will vote his
or her conscience. That is all that I
ask, just vote your conscience, and let
the record reflect where we stood.
As Dr. King put it, the truest meas-
ure of a person is not where the person
stands in times of comfort and conven-
ience. The truest measure of a person
is where you stand in times of chal-
lenge and controversy.
These are times of challenge and con-
troversy. The question is, where do we
stand? The record will show where we
stand.
There are some who will say that
this is going to be a hard vote. I have
a sense of what hard votes are like. I
have had to take some hard votes since
I have been in Congress. I have had to
take some hard votes and never had a
person say thank you for taking that
hard vote. I have taken my share of
hard votes.
I have some members of the clergy
that still have not found favor with
some of the votes that I have taken,
but I took them because it was the
principled thing to do, because it was
the constitutional thing to do, because
it was not only the right thing to do,
but the righteous thing to do. So I
know what hard votes are like.
People expect me to take hard votes,
and they expect me, after I take my
hard votes, to go back and convince my
constituents that I did the right thing.
Nobody seeks to protect me from hard
votes. I know what hard votes are like.
I understand when people say this
would be a hard vote. I understand it.
But that is why we came. We were
elected to take hard votes. If it were
easy, then we wouldn’t be here. Other
folk would do the easy things. People
who get elected to Congress are ex-
pected to take hard votes, to do that
which is difficult.
Let us understand that the record
will reflect the vote. It will give people
who look through the vista of time
some indication as to why we are doing
what we are doing and have not done
what we should have done.
Madam Speaker, again, I am proud to
stand in the well of the Congress of the
United States of America. I never take
for granted this preeminent privilege. I
will always be grateful to the Speaker
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:36 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.102 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2882 March 27, 2019
of the House and all the various offi-
cers of this House for permitting the
time. I am grateful, and I thank them
for being as magnanimous, if you will,
as they are, but also for following the
rules and allowing me to speak. This is
a great opportunity.
I pray that we who hold public trust
will honor the Constitution of the
United States of America.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to say
that I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
SENATE ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
The Speaker announced her signa-
ture to an enrolled bill of the Senate of
the following title:
S. 252.—An act to authorize the honorary
appointment of Robert J. Dole to the grade
of colonel in the regular Army.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 6 o’clock and 34 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, March 28, 2019, at 9 a.m.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
494. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
of the Navy, Manpower and Reserve Affairs,
Department of Defense, transmitting notifi-
cation to Congress of the anticipated use of
Selected Reserve units that will be ordered
to active duty under the authority of 10
U.S.C. 12304b, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 12304(f);
Public Law 94-286, Sec. 1; (90 Stat. 517); to the
Committee on Armed Services.
495. A letter from the Under Secretary, Re-
search and Engineering, Department of De-
fense, transmitting notification that the De-
partment is not submitting a formal report
to Congress in response to Sec. 2803, Sub.
Sec. (c)(1) of the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act due to funding not made available;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
496. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
of Defense, Sustainment, Department of
State, transmitting a notification that the
assembly of the required report on the De-
partment’s Operational Energy Strategy will
be completed at the end of May 2019; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
497. A letter from the Acting Assistant
General Counsel for the Division of Regu-
latory Services, Office of Postsecondary Edu-
cation, Department of Education, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Guidance
for the Standard for Borrower Defense to Re-
payment Applications; Institutions’ Notifi-
cations of Financial Responsibility Events,
Actions, and Conditions; Implementation of
the Class Action Bans and Predispute Arbi-
tration Agreements Provisions; the Repay-
ment Rate and Financial Protection Disclo-
sures Provisions of the 2016 Borrower De-
fense to Repayment Regulations (RIN: 1840-
AD19) received March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
498. A letter from the Acting Assistant
General Counsel for the Division of Regu-
latory Service, Office of Postsecondary Edu-
cation, Department of Education, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Student
Assistance General Provisions, Federal Per-
kins Loan Program, Federal Family Edu-
cation Loan Program, William D. Ford Fed-
eral Direct Loan Program, and Teacher Edu-
cation Assistance for College and Higher
Education Grant Program [Docket ID: ED-
2015-OPE-0103] (RIN: 1840-AD19) received
March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
499. A letter from the Chair, National Com-
mittee on Vital and Health Statistics, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting the Thirteenth Report to Con-
gress on the Implementation of the Adminis-
trative Simplification Provisions of the
Health Insurance Portability and Account-
ability Act (HIPPA) OF 1996, pursuant to 42
U.S.C. 242k(k)(7); Public Law 104-191, Sec.
263; (110 Stat. 2033); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
500. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a semi-
annual report detailing telecommunications-
related payments made to Cuba pursuant to
Treasury Department licenses during the pe-
riod from July 1 through December 31, 2018,
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 6004(e)(6); Public Law
102-484, Sec. 1705(e)(6) (as amended by Public
Law 104-114, Sec. 102)(g)); (110 Stat. 794); to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
501. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to South Sudan that was
declared in Executive Order 13664 of April 3,
2014, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); Public
Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c); (90 Stat. 1257) and 50
U.S.C. 1703(c); Public Law 95-223, Sec 204(c);
(91 Stat. 1627); to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
502. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to significant malicious
cyber-enabled activities that was declared in
Executive Order 13694 of April 1, 2015, pursu-
ant to 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); Public Law 94-412,
Sec. 401(c); (90 Stat. 1257) and 50 U.S.C.
1703(c); Public Law 95-223, Sec 204(c); (91 Stat.
1627); to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
503. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to persons who commit,
threaten to commit, or support terrorism
that was declared in Executive Order 13224 of
September 23, 2001, pursuant to 50 U.S.C.
1641(c); Public Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c); (90
Stat. 1257) and 50 U.S.C. 1703(c); Public Law
95-223, Sec 204(c); (91 Stat. 1627); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
504. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to Ukraine that was de-
clared in Executive Order 13660 of March 6,
2014, pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1641(c); Public
Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c); (90 Stat. 1257) and 50
U.S.C. 1703(c); Public Law 95-223, Sec 204(c);
(91 Stat. 1627); to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
505. A letter from the Director, Bureau of
Transportation Statistics, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Bureau’s
2018 Transportation Statistics Annual Re-
port, pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 6312; Public Law
112-141, Sec. 52011(a); (126 Stat. 894); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
506. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace for the following Alaska Towns;
Toksook Bay, AK; Unalakleet, AK; Wain-
wright, AK; and Yakutat, AK [Docket No.:
FAA-2017-0350; Airspace Docket No.: 17-AAL-
6] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received March 21, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
507. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of Class E
Airspace, Amendment of Class D Airspace,
and Revocation of Class E Airspace; Tacoma,
WA [Docket No.: FAA-2017-1032; Airspace
Docket No.: 17-ANM-4] (RIN: 2120-AA66) re-
ceived March 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
508. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No.: 31235;
Amdt. No.: 3837] received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
509. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No.: 31231;
Amdt. No.: 3833] received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
510. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No.: 31232;
Amdt. No.: 3834] received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
511. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No.: 31239;
Amdt. No.: 3840] received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
512. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No.: 31238;
Amdt. No.: 3839] received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
513. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No.: 31236;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K27MR7.104 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2883
March 27, 2019
Amdt. No.: 3838] received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
514. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0962; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
125-AD; Amendment 39-19560; AD 2019-03-08]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
515. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0580; Product Identifier
2018-NM-025-AD; Amendment 39-19558; AD
2019-03-06] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
516. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-0409; Product Identifier
2017-NM-120-AD; Amendment 39-19559; AD
2019-03-07] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
517. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0907; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
118-AD; Amendment 39-19562; AD 2019-03-10]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
518. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0906; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
122-AD; Amendment 39-19561; AD 2019-03-09]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
519. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0508; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
012-AD; Amendment 39-19563; AD 2019-03-11]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received March 21, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
520. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Pacific Aerospace Limited Airplanes
[Docket No.; FAA-2018-0385; Product Identi-
fier 2018-CE-019-AD; Amendment 39-19554; AD
2019-03-02] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received March
21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
521. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class D
and Class E Airspace; Atwater, CA [Docket
No.: FAA-2017-1091; Airspace Docket No.: 17-
AWP-26] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received March 21,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
522. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Corry, PA [Docket No.: FAA-2018-
0998; Airspace Docket No.: 18-AEA-19] (RIN:
2120-AA66) received March 21, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
523. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class D
Airspace and Class E Airspace; Schenectady,
NY, Ithaca, NY, and Albany, NY [Docket
No.: FAA-2018-0256; Airspace Docket No.: 18-
AEA-11] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received March 21,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 1585. A bill to reauthorize the Vio-
lence Against Women Act of 1994, and for
other purposes; with an amendment (Rept.
116–21, Pt. 1). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committees on Energy and Commerce,
Financial Services, Ways and Means,
Education and Labor, Natural Re-
sources, and Veterans’ Affairs, dis-
charged from further consideration.
H.R. 1585 referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida (for herself,
Ms. PELOSI, Mr. HOYER, Mr. PALLONE,
Mr. ENGEL, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. JOHN-
SON of Texas, Mr. NEAL, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. NADLER, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. LEVIN
of California, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. CASTEN
of Illinois, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. PORTER, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, Mr. SOTO, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mr. CRIST, Ms. NORTON, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. ROUDA, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. COHEN, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. COURT-
NEY, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Mr. WELCH, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. VAN
DREW, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
JEFFRIES, Mr. KILMER, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER,
Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Ms. DEAN, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
LYNCH, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Ms. DEGETTE,
Ms. SCHRIER, and Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire):
H.R. 9. A bill to direct the President to de-
velop a plan for the United States to meet
its nationally determined contribution under
the Paris Agreement, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in
addition to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. WALBERG (for himself, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. MASSIE, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
Mr. MCCLINTOCK, and Mr. RUSH):
H.R. 1895. A bill to restore the integrity of
the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on Energy and Com-
merce, Ways and Means, and Financial Serv-
ices, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. WALTZ, Ms. MOORE,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. CÁRDENAS, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 1896. A bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to ex-
pand the military student identifier program
to cover students with a parent who serves in
the reserve component of the Armed Forces;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself,
Ms. DEGETTE, Ms. BASS, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. KENNEDY, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. RUSH, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. AGUILAR, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. WILSON
of Florida, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. PAYNE, Mrs. BEATTY,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mrs. DINGELL, and Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 1897. A bill to improve Federal efforts
with respect to the prevention of maternal
mortality, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committees on Ways and
Means, and Education and Labor, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CRAWFORD (for himself and
Mrs. BUSTOS):
H.R. 1898. A bill to modify the prohibition
on United States assistance and financing
for certain exports to Cuba under the Trade
Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement
Act of 2000, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on Financial Serv-
ices, and Agriculture, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L27MR7.000 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2884 March 27, 2019
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. TONKO, Mr. DOGGETT,
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
COSTA, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. COHEN, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. HARDER of California, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
SAN NICOLAS, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Mr. KATKO, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, and Mr. SOTO):
H.R. 1899. A bill to provide for the refi-
nancing and recalculation of certain Federal
student loans, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. HAALAND (for herself, Mrs.
TORRES of California, Mr. YOUNG, and
Mr. COLE):
H.R. 1900. A bill to establish a business in-
cubators program within the Department of
the Interior to promote economic develop-
ment in Indian reservation communities; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. OLSON (for himself, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania,
and Mr. FOSTER):
H.R. 1901. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to preserve access to re-
habilitation innovation centers under the
Medicare program; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. HOLDING (for himself and Mr.
LEWIS):
H.R. 1902. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow officers and em-
ployees of the Department of the Treasury to
provide to taxpayers information regarding
low-income taxpayer clinics; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Miss RICE of New York (for herself,
Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. KING of New York,
Mr. TRONE, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey,
and Ms. WATERS):
H.R. 1903. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to support individuals with
younger onset Alzheimer’s disease; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Mr.
GALLEGO, Ms. HAALAND, Ms.
GABBARD, and Mr. O’HALLERAN):
H.R. 1904. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Public Land Management Act of 2009 to
make the Reclamation Water Settlements
Fund permanent; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. GOMEZ:
H.R. 1905. A bill to require notice from the
Secretary of the Treasury in the case of any
closure of a Taxpayer Assistance Center; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CROW:
H.R. 1906. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the
nonbusiness energy property credit; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BUCHANAN (for himself and
Mr. KIND):
H.R. 1907. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the qualification
requirements with respect to certain mul-
tiple employer plans with pooled plan pro-
viders, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BURCHETT (for himself, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr.
COOPER, Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Ten-
nessee, Mr. GREEN of Tennessee, Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee, and Mr.
COHEN):
H.R. 1908. A bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to Master Sergeant Rodrick
‘‘Roddie’’ Edmonds in recognition of his he-
roic actions during World War II; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. CHABOT (for himself and Mr.
SCHNEIDER):
H.R. 1909. A bill to require the Securities
and Exchange Commission to revise rules re-
lating to general solicitation or general ad-
vertising to allow for presentations or other
communication made by or on behalf of an
issuer at certain events, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. AMASH (for himself, Mr. JOR-
DAN, Mr. MASSIE, Mr. DESJARLAIS,
Mr. MCCLINTOCK, and Mr. BUCK):
H.R. 1910. A bill to abolish the Export-Im-
port Bank of the United States, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Mr. WALTZ (for himself, Mr.
MOULTON, and Mr. BACON):
H.R. 1911. A bill to amend titles 10 and 38,
United States Code, to expand certain bene-
fits for survivors of members of the Armed
Forces who die in line of duty, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, and in addition to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico:
H.R. 1912. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to provide for require-
ments relating to documentation for major
acquisition programs, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity.
By Mr. CISNEROS:
H.R. 1913. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to pay educational assist-
ance or subsistence allowances to certain in-
dividuals during school term, quarter, or se-
mester breaks; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself and Mr.
CHABOT):
H.R. 1914. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, with respect to national pri-
ority safety programs, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself and
Mr. GUTHRIE):
H.R. 1915. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to make technical im-
provements to the Net Price Calculator sys-
tem so that prospective students may have a
more accurate understanding of the true cost
of college; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Ms. DELBENE (for herself, Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, and Mr. NEWHOUSE):
H.R. 1916. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 and the Employee Retire-
ment Income Security Act of 1974 to provide
alternative minimum funding rules for cer-
tain single-employer plans maintained by a
community newspaper; to the Committee on
Education and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself and
Ms. SPEIER):
H.R. 1917. A bill to require the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget to sub-
mit to Congress an annual report on projects
that are over budget and behind schedule,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform, and in addition to the
Committee on the Budget, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 1918. A bill to designate the commu-
nity-based outpatient clinic of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs in Bozeman, Mon-
tana, as the ‘‘Travis W. Atkins Department
of Veterans Affairs Clinic’’; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi (for him-
self, Mr. GIBBS, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mrs. AXNE,
Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr.
PALAZZO, Mr. GUEST, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, and
Mr. WOMACK):
H.R. 1919. A bill to amend the Animal
Health Protection Act to provide chronic
wasting disease support for States and co-
ordinated response efforts, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. TONKO, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
and Ms. MATSUI):
H.R. 1920. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to provide a higher Fed-
eral matching rate for increased expendi-
tures under Medicaid for mental and behav-
ioral health services, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Ms. HER-
RERA BEUTLER, Ms. BONAMICI, and Mr.
YOUNG):
H.R. 1921. A bill to authorize Federal agen-
cies to establish prize competitions for inno-
vation or adaptation management develop-
ment relating to ocean acidification; to the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Ms. MENG,
Mrs. WALORSKI, and Mr. LAHOOD):
H.R. 1922. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to include certain over-the-
counter medical products as qualified med-
ical expenses; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself
and Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio):
H.R. 1923. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of the
Treasury to mint and issue quarter dollars in
commemoration of the Nineteenth Amend-
ment, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada (for herself and
Mrs. LESKO):
H.R. 1924. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to provide child care to vet-
erans at Vet Centers in the same manner as
the Secretary provides child care to veterans
at other Department of Veterans Affairs fa-
cilities; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. NADLER, and Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ):
H.R. 1925. A bill to designate the Manhat-
tan Campus of the New York Harbor Health
Care System of the Department of Veterans
Affairs as the ‘‘Margaret Cochran Corbin
Campus of the New York Harbor Health Care
System’’; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. PHILLIPS (for himself and Mr.
FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 1926. A bill to provide temporary pro-
tected status for certain nationals of Libe-
ria, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L27MR7.100 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2885
March 27, 2019
By Mr. RATCLIFFE (for himself, Mr.
COLLINS of Georgia, Mr. DAVID P. ROE
of Tennessee, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. BUR-
GESS, Mr. PALMER, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
GALLAGHER, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. GREEN
of Tennessee, Mr. YOHO, Mr. BYRNE,
Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr. ROUZER, Mr.
LOUDERMILK, Mr. WALKER, Mr.
GAETZ, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana, Mr. CHABOT, and Mr.
WITTMAN):
H.R. 1927. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to clarify the nature of judicial
review of agency interpretations of statutory
and regulatory provisions; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. RESCHENTHALER (for him-
self, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. STEUBE, and Mr.
CLINE):
H.R. 1928. A bill to amend the Illegal Immi-
gration Reform and Immigrant Responsi-
bility Act of 1996 to impose penalties for
State noncompliance with enforcement of
immigration law, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. ROUDA:
H.R. 1929. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the
qualified fuel cell motor vehicles credit; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. ROUZER:
H.R. 1930. A bill to provide for the elimi-
nation of the Department of Education, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, and Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas):
H.R. 1931. A bill to authorize dedicated do-
mestic terrorism offices within the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, the Department
of Justice, and the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation to analyze and monitor domestic
terrorist activity and require the Federal
Government to take steps to prevent domes-
tic terrorism; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary, and in addition to the Committees on
Homeland Security, and Armed Services, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. SCHRIER (for herself, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. THOMP-
SON of California, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms.
JUDY CHU of California, and Mr.
GOMEZ):
H.R. 1932. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to treat as compensation
for purposes of retirement contribution limi-
tations any difficulty of care payments ex-
cluded from gross income; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for him-
self, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. DUNCAN, Ms.
LOFGREN, and Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire):
H.R. 1933. A bill to prohibit States from
retroactively imposing a sales tax collection
duty on a remote seller, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SERRANO (for himself, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. MOORE, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
COHEN, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. HASTINGS, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, and Ms. CLARKE of New York):
H.R. 1934. A bill to direct the Assistant
Secretary of Commerce for Communications
and Information to prepare and submit peri-
odic reports to Congress on the role of tele-
communications in hate crimes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself, Mr.
HURD of Texas, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr.
STIVERS, Ms. GRANGER, Mr. UPTON,
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. COLE, Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington, Mr. TURNER, Mr.
BUCSHON, Mr. MCHENRY, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. WAL-
DEN, Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. THOMPSON of
Pennsylvania, Mr. STEIL, Mr. FLO-
RES, Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. REED,
Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. COOK, Mr. HUDSON,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mrs. WAGNER,
Mr. BURGESS, Mr. KING of New York,
Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr.
STAUBER, Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr.
BALDERSON, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr.
ZELDIN, Mr. BOST, Mr. FERGUSON, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. TIMMONS, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
CHABOT, Mr. LATTA, Mr. BYRNE, Mr.
KINZINGER, and Mr. LAHOOD):
H.R. 1935. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to enhance provisions
related to pay discrimination, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 1936. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Public Land Management Act of 2009 to mod-
ify the terms of the Jackson Gulch rehabili-
tation project in Colorado, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mrs. TORRES of California (for her-
self and Ms. HAALAND):
H.R. 1937. A bill to amend the Native
American Business Development, Trade Pro-
motion, and Tourism Act of 2000, the Buy In-
dian Act, and the Native American Programs
Act of 1974 to provide industry and economic
development opportunities to Indian commu-
nities; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and Labor, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. TRAHAN (for herself and Mr.
KELLY of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 1938. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a credit to small
employers providing an eligible automatic
contribution arrangement under a retire-
ment savings plan; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. TURNER:
H.R. 1939. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the health cov-
erage tax credit; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mrs. WAGNER (for herself, Mr.
CRENSHAW, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
DIAZ-BALART, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, and
Mrs. MILLER):
H.R. 1940. A bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act to make available parental
leave benefits to parents following the birth
or adoption of a child, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. SMITH of
Missouri, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
Mr. REED, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
LUETKEMEYER, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. HOLDING, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, Mrs. WALORSKI, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. LAHOOD, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. DUFFY,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. STIVERS, Mr. HECK,
Mr. HUDSON, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
EMMER, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, and Mr.
GALLAGHER):
H. Con. Res. 27. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of the Congress that tax-
exempt fraternal benefit societies have his-
torically and continue to provide critical
benefits to Americans and United States
communities; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. RYAN (for himself and Mr.
REED):
H. Con. Res. 28. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing support for designation of the first
Friday of October as ‘‘Manufacturing Day’’;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. TLAIB (for herself and Mr.
GREEN of Texas):
H. Res. 257. A resolution inquiring whether
the House of Representatives should impeach
Donald John Trump, President of the United
States of America; to the Committee on
Rules.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina):
H. Res. 258. A resolution affirming United
States support for the continued implemen-
tation of the Treaty of Peace between the
Arab Republic of Egypt and the State of
Israel; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. FORTENBERRY (for himself
and Ms. ESHOO):
H. Res. 259. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives to sup-
port the repatriation of religious and ethnic
minorities in Iraq to their ancestral home-
lands; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Ms.
FUDGE, Mr. MORELLE, and Ms. JACK-
SON LEE):
H. Res. 260. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of National Middle Level
Education Month; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. PERRY:
H. Res. 261. A resolution strongly con-
demning the February 2019 terrorist attack
in India, offering condolences to the family
and friends of the victims, and reaffirming
solidarity with the people of India; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. ROUZER:
H. Res. 262. A resolution recognizing line-
men, the profession of linemen, the contribu-
tions of these brave men and women who
protect public safety, and expressing support
for the designation of April 18, 2019, as Na-
tional Lineman Appreciation Day; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. TONKO (for himself and Mr.
WENSTRUP):
H. Res. 263. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of April 9, 2019, as Na-
tional Yellow Ribbon Day; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. CASTOR of Florida:
H.R. 9.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. WALBERG:
H.R. 1895.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 9 of the Con-
stitution of the United States; the power to
constitute Tribunals inferior to the Supreme
Court.
The purpose of the bill is to amend the
civil asset forfeiture procedures and Section
8, Clause 9 extends to Congress the power to
create inferior courts and to make rules of
procedure and evidence for such courts.
By Mr. CORREA:
H.R. 1896.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L27MR7.100 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2886 March 27, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
(1) The U.S. Constitution including Article
1, Section 8.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois:
H.R. 1897.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 3 of section 8 of article I of the
Contitution.
By Mr. CRAWFORD:
H.R. 1898.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress has the power to enact this
legislation pursuant to the enumerate pow-
ers listed in Article 1, Section 8 of the US
Constitution, to regulate Commerce with
Foreign Nations.
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 1899.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 1900.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. OLSON:
H.R. 1901.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII
By Mr. HOLDING:
H.R. 1902.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 1903.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 1904.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, sec. 8, cl. 3
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian tribes;
U.S. Cont. art. IV, sec. 3, cl. 2, sen. a
The Congress shall have Power to dispose
of and make all needful Rule and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory of other Prop-
erty belonging to the United States;
By Mr. GOMEZ:
H.R. 1905.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. CROW:
H.R. 1906.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1.
By Mr. BUCHANAN:
H.R. 1907.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Sec. 8.
By Mr. BURCHETT:
H.R. 1908.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV,
Section 3, Clause 2. The Congress shall
have Power to dispose of and make all need-
ful Rules and Regulations respecting the
Territory or other Property belonging to the
United States; and nothing in this Constitu-
tion shall be so construed as to Prejudice
any Claims of the United States, or of any
particular State.
By Mr. CHABOT:
H.R. 1909.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 3 of section 8 of article I of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. AMASH:
H.R. 1910.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the implied power to repeal
laws that exceed its constitutional authority
as well as laws within its constitutional au-
thority.
By Mr. WALTZ:
H.R. 1911.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
The Congress shall have the power to pro-
vide for the common defense.
By Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico:
H.R. 1912.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. CISNEROS:
H.R. 1913.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 1914.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 1915.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. DELBENE:
H.R. 1916.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 1917.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 9
No Money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law; and a regular Statement and
Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of
all public Money shall be published from
time to time.
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 1918.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
H.R. 1919.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Section 8 of Article I of the United States
Constitution, which provides Congress with
the ability to enact legislation necessary and
proper to effectuate its purposes in taxing
and spending.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
H.R. 1920.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8—to provide for the gen-
eral welfare and to regulate commerce
among the states.
By Mr. KILMER:
H.R. 1921.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1; Article 1,
Section 8, Clause 3; and Article 1, Section 8,
Clause 18.
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 1922.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 7
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 1923.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada:
H.R. 1924.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 To raise and support
Armies.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 1925.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. PHILLIPS:
H.R. 1926.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 3 provides Con-
gress with the power to ‘‘regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes.’’
By Mr. RATCLIFFE:
H.R. 1927.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article III, Section 1, Sentence 1, and Sec-
tion 2, Clauses 1 and 4 of the Constitution, in
that the legislation defines or affects judi-
cial powers and cases that are subject to leg-
islation by Congress; Article 1, Section 1,
Clause 1 of the United States Constitution,
in that the legislation concerns the exercise
of legislative powers generally granted to
Congress by that section, including the exer-
cise of those powers when delegated by Con-
gress to the Executive; and, Article 1, Sec-
tion 8, Clause 18 of the United States Con-
stitution, in that the legislation exercises
legislative power granted to Congress by
that clause ‘‘to make all laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into execu-
tion the foregoing powers, and all other pow-
ers vested by this Constitution in the Gov-
ernment of the United States, or in any De-
partment or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. RESCHENTHALER:
H.R. 1928.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 4 of Section 8 of Article I—The Con-
gress shall have the Power to establish a uni-
form Rule of Naturalization, and uniform
Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies
throughout the United States.
By Mr. ROUDA:
H.R. 1929.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. ROUZER:
H.R. 1930.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution states that ’’The Con-
gress shall have Power To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States
or in any Department of Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
H.R. 1931.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:48 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.042 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2887
March 27, 2019
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. SCHRIER:
H.R. 1932.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
H.R. 1933.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. SERRANO:
H.R. 1934.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause I of the United
States Constitution related to general wel-
fare of the United States.
By Ms. STEFANIK:
H.R. 1935.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 1936.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mrs. TORRES of California:
H.R. 1937.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
According to Article 1: Section 8: Clause
18: of the United States Constitution, seen
below, this bill falls within the Constitu-
tional Authority of the United States Con-
gress.
Article 1: Section 8: Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mrs. TRAHAN:
H.R. 1938.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States;
By Mr. TURNER:
H.R. 1939.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mrs. WAGNER:
H.R. 1940.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 6: Ms. SLOTKIN, Ms. SHERRILL, and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 35: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 36: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. BERA, and
Mr. CASE.
H.R. 64: Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 94: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 95: Mr. VELA, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr.
GRAVES of Missouri, Mr. LATTA, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mr. STEUBE, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York, and Mr.
EVANS.
H.R. 96: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. VAN
DREW, and Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 101: Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. WALTZ, and Mr.
CRIST.
H.R. 148: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 154: Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 216: Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr. FERGUSON,
Mr. LAHOOD, and Mr. EMMER.
H.R. 218: Mr. MAST, Mr. BUCSHON, Mr.
GREEN of Tennessee, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. ROGERS
of Alabama, Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. PALMER, Mr. JOHNSON
of Ohio, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, and Mr. CLOUD.
H.R. 250: Mr. DUNCAN and Mr. RICE of
South Carolina.
H.R. 296: Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 299: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mr. COX of California, Mr. WIL-
LIAMS, Mr. STIVERS, Ms. STEVENS, Mr. TAY-
LOR, Mr. BRADY, Mr. GOLDEN, Mrs. TRAHAN,
Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. CASTEN of Il-
linois, and Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts.
H.R. 309: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 310: Mr. PETERS and Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 332: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 336: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 397: Mr. RASKIN, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
NEGUSE, and Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 400: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 444: Mr. VAN DREW and Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 445: Ms. PINGREE and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 446: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 500: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 510: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 530: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 553: Mr. CHABOT, Mr. MCCAUL, and Mr.
VAN DREW.
H.R. 555: Mr. CLAY and Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi.
H.R. 578: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 594: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 602: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 613: Mr. ARMSTRONG and Mr. LARSON
of Connecticut.
H.R. 638: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 641: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 651: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 663: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 693: Mr. CLEAVER and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 759: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 763: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 784: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 808: Mr. KING of New York and Mr.
HIGGINS of Louisiana.
H.R. 824: Mr. KEATING, Ms. PINGREE, and
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 835: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 838: Ms. KELLY of Illinois and Mr.
NORMAN.
H.R. 846: Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana.
H.R. 849: Mr. RICHMOND and Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY.
H.R. 855: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 861: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 873: Mr. POCAN and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 888: Mr. STEUBE, Mr. OLSON, and Mr.
LATTA.
H.R. 897: Mr. CLOUD.
H.R. 912: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 938: Mr. KENNEDY, Ms. MATSUI, and
Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 943: Mr. BYRNE, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr.
PAPPAS, and Mr. KIM.
H.R. 945: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 962: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 965: Ms. ESHOO, Ms. MATSUI, and Mrs.
CRAIG.
H.R. 986: Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. ESHOO,
and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 987: Mr. RUSH, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. PAL-
LONE, and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 1002: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 1004: Mr. EVANS, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
NEGUSE, Mr. SCHIFF, and Mr. DOGGETT.
H.R. 1006: Mr. LONG.
H.R. 1007: Mr. KING of Iowa, Ms. STEFANIK,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, and Mr. SMITH
of New Jersey.
H.R. 1010: Mr. RUIZ, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. MATSUI, and Ms.
ESHOO.
H.R. 1035: Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 1043: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1044: Mr. BEYER and Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 1046: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 1095: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 1096: Mr. LONG and Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 1098: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 1111: Mr. HASTINGS and Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 1134: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 1139: Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
PAPPAS, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Ms. WEXTON, and Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 1146: Mrs. TORRES of California, Ms.
WILD, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mr. DELGADO, and Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 1166: Ms. WILD, Ms. SPANBERGER, and
Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 1175: Mr. KILMER, Mr. WELCH, Mr.
NORMAN, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. CICILLINE, Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mr. HOLD-
ING, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1179: Mr. BISHOP of Utah and Ms. NOR-
TON.
H.R. 1186: Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 1289: Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 1305: Mr. VAN DREW and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1306: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 1307: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 1311: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 1327: Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr. RESCHENTHALER,
and Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 1345: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1358: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 1360: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 1384: Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 1385: Mr. KENNEDY and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 1386: Mr. RUIZ, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
RUSH, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. MATSUI, and Ms.
ESHOO.
H.R. 1396: Mrs. LURIA, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. RICHMOND, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
VELA, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. CRIST, Mr. MCNER-
NEY, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Ms. MOORE, Ms. TITUS, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. TONKO, Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Ms. DELBENE, Ms. HILL of
California, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia,
Mr. SIRES, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Ms. BASS, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
BALDERSON, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. BROOKS of
Alabama, Mr. LAMB, and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1398: Mr. PAPPAS, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Mr. BYRNE, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY of New York, Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana,
and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 1400: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. TONKO,
and Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 1418: Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 1423: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 1425: Ms. MATSUI, Ms. SPANBERGER,
and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 1499: Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 1527: Mr. MASSIE.
H.R. 1572: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 1588: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 1595: Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. SHERRILL,
Mrs. BUSTOS, and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 1597: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. GRAVES of Mis-
souri, and Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 1602: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 1629: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 1641: Mr. CÁRDENAS and Mr. RUTHER-
FORD.
H.R. 1652: Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. SAN NICO-
LAS, and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1668: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 1673: Mr. WOODALL.
H.R. 1679: Mr. RASKIN, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. JOHNSON of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:32 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.046 H27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2888 March 27, 2019
Ohio, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
VELA, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. CUR-
TIS, Mr. SOTO, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia,
Miss RICE of New York, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER,
Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, and Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 1680: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. TURNER, Mr. POSEY, Mr. DIAZ-BALART,
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mrs. MURPHY, Mr.
BRINDISI, and Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 1706: Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. WEBER of Texas,
Mr. BARR, Mr. WATKINS, Mr. ROONEY of Flor-
ida, and Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 1715: Mr. GIBBS.
H.R. 1721: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia and Ms.
HILL of California.
H.R. 1722: Ms. HILL of California and Mr.
VAN DREW.
H.R. 1735: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1739: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1740: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1748: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey and
Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1753: Mr. DESJARLAIS and Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 1755: Mr. BISHOP of Utah and Mr. GAL-
LAGHER.
H.R. 1759: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 1762: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1770: Ms. GRANGER.
H.R. 1781: Mr. PALLONE, Mr. RUIZ, Mr.
RUSH, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Ms. MATSUI, and Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 1830: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 1837: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. SPANO, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr. CRIST,
Mr. MAST, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. DESJARLAIS,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. SIRES,
Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. PETERSon, Mr. BURGESS,
Mr. COOPER, Mr. ROGERS of Alabama, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. GRAVES of Georgia, Ms. ESHOO,
and Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 1846: Mr. WELCH, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
PAYNE, and Ms. MENG.
H.R. 1854: Mr. KATKO and Mr. KEVIN HERN
of Oklahoma.
H.R. 1855: Mr. CONAWAY and Mr. DAVIDSON
of Ohio.
H.R. 1857: Mr. THOMPSON of California and
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1860: Mr. WALBERG.
H.R. 1884: Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. KIND, Ms. JOHN-
SON of Texas, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. CROW, Ms. CLARK
of Massachusetts, Mr. HECK, Mr. PAPPAS, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. SARBANES, Ms.
SPEIER, Mr. TONKO, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr.
DEUTCH, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. BERA, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. HOULAHAN, and Ms. DAVIDS
of Kansas.
H.J. Res. 38: Ms. MENG.
H. Con. Res. 20: Ms. GRANGER and Ms.
ADAMS.
H. Con. Res. 25: Mr. RUSH and Ms. TLAIB.
H. Res. 27: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H. Res. 49: Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. LOFGREN, and
Mr. GOODEN.
H. Res. 60: Ms. DEAN, Mr. MOONEY of West
Virginia, Mr. COSTA, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana, and Mr. KIM.
H. Res. 107: Mr. KIM.
H. Res. 124: Mr. KIND, Ms. WILSON of Flor-
ida, and Mr. AGUILAR.
H. Res. 138: Mr. GREEN of Texas and Mr.
VAN DREW.
H. Res. 154: Mr. MALINOWSKI and Mr.
DELGADO.
H. Res. 190: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H. Res. 220: Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. COSTA,
and Mr. LEWIS.
H. Res. 221: Mr. CICILLINE and Mr. COSTA.
H. Res. 222: Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
ROONEY of Florida, and Mr. COSTA.
H. Res. 231: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Ms. HAALAND, and Mr. COURT-
NEY.
H. Res. 241: Mr. MARSHALL.
H. Res. 246: Mr. WATKINS, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Mr. COOPER, Mr. KIND, Ms.
SCHRIER, Mr. SPANO, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. BIGGS,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
Mr. BUDD, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. WALDEN, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. BURGESS, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr. ROGERS
of Alabama, Mr. BANKS, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
PETERSON, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Ms. TITUS, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. GIBBS,
Mr. KING of New York, Mr. BISHOP of Utah,
Mr. LATTA, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. KATKO, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. CASE, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Mr. COLE, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER, Mr. TURNER, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. HOLD-
ING, and Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 1735: Ms. MOORE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:32 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR7.051 H27MRPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2011
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2019 No. 53
Senate
The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, from whom all blessings
flow, we thank You for the gift of this
day. Inspire us to use these precious
hours and minutes to glorify Your
Name. Lord, give us the wisdom to
number our days that we may have
hearts of wisdom. Guide our Senators
with strength, courage, hope, and love.
Empower them to build bridges that
will keep America strong. Use them to
pull down barriers of contention and
replace them with gates that lead to
harmony and peace. Lord, do for our
lawmakers more than they can ask or
imagine.
We pray in Your sovereign Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019—MOTION TO PROCEED—
Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the motion to
proceed to H.R. 268, which the clerk
will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 15, H.R.
268, a bill making supplemental appropria-
tions for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak for 1
minute as in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
yesterday, we had debate on the Green
New Deal. I wonder how many Ameri-
cans realize that this debate on the
Green New Deal was not on a bill be-
fore the Congress that would become
law but was on nothing but a non-
binding resolution. Rather than work-
ing on specific changes in the law, the
authors chose vague aspirations for
dramatic action in the future. That is
the difference between an active envi-
ronmentalist and an environmental ac-
tivist.
I am proud of my accomplishments
that have had a real, positive impact
on the environment. For instance, I au-
thored the production tax credit for
wind energy back in 1992. During my
leadership on the Senate Finance Com-
mittee in the 2000s, I oversaw the es-
tablishment, enhancement, and re-
newal of numerous clean energy tax in-
centives.
My point is not to say that I made
some impact on the environment but
to say that there is a difference be-
tween offering a bill and, in turn, just
a nonbinding resolution, which—the
Democrats haven’t put forth any real
law.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
yesterday, my Democratic colleagues
in this body offered the American peo-
ple a crystal-clear picture of what the
Democratic Party stands for in 2019
and whom it represents. Nearly all of
our Democratic colleagues wrapped
their arms around the radical policy
they have marketed to the public as
the Green New Deal.
I am sure we will be hearing carefully
crafted spin about the transparent po-
litical maneuvering behind voting
present instead of voting yes. Not ex-
actly ‘‘Profiles in Courage.’’ Not ex-
actly ‘‘Profiles in Courage.’’
I am also certain that we will hear
more indignant claims that I somehow
sabotaged the legislation they said
they support by actually bringing it to
a vote. That is a fascinating sight in
the Senate—the cosponsors of a policy
complaining bitterly that they actu-
ally had to go on record to actually
vote for a bill they supposedly support,
but go on record they did. They can
call it voting present. They can call it
voting yes. But when every single Sen-
ate Democrat running for President
has signed on as a cosponsor, when all
of the energy and momentum in the
Democratic Party is behind this, when
just a tiny handful of Democratic Sen-
ators could bring themselves to vote
against it on the floor, what we have is
a Democratic Party that is fixated on
satisfying the far left, even at the cost
of crushing—crushing—working-class
and middle-class American life as we
know it.
Yesterday, the vast majority of Sen-
ate Democrats could not dismiss some-
thing as crazy as ending the production
of American oil, coal, natural gas, and
nuclear energy within a decade. They
couldn’t vote against that.
Senate Democrats could not dismiss
something as absolutely ludicrous as a
federally mandated overhaul of every
building in America to meet the green-
ness—greenness—standards of Wash-
ington bureaucrats.
Senate Democrats could not reject a
plan to take more control over where
Americans choose to live, how they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.000 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2012 March 27, 2019
choose to get around, and how they
earn a living.
Senate Democrats could not even re-
ject a plan that, according to rough es-
timates, could raise families’ utility
bills by hundreds of dollars a month
and cost the U.S. Government more
than the entire 2017 GDP of the whole
world. They couldn’t vote against that.
American manufacturing, American
agriculture, industries, jobs, houses,
farms, buildings, and cars that make
up daily life for millions of working
Americans—Democrats want Wash-
ington, DC, to declare war on all of
that because it doesn’t comply with
the latest fashions in Brooklyn or San
Francisco. They want to march the en-
tire country toward extreme environ-
mentalist goals that even President
Obama’s former Secretary of Energy
has dismissed as impossible. That is
what the Democratic Party of 2019 ap-
parently has become.
Remember, their last Presidential
nominee bragged, after her loss, that at
least she had won all the places in
America that are ‘‘optimistic, diverse,
dynamic, [and] moving forward.’’ We
can fill in the blanks and see how they
view all the other places that millions
of Americans call home, those places
that just aren’t enlightened enough to
vote for Democrats, places where farm
jobs and factory jobs really matter,
places where expensive high-speed rail
and electric cars and trucks simply
will not get the job done, places where
soaring electric bills represent a kitch-
en-table crisis and not just a minor in-
convenience, and places that are actu-
ally home to the workers who would
be, as the resolution breezily puts it,
‘‘affected by the transition’’—in other
words, jobs shipped overseas and work-
ers out in the cold. In Democrats’ eyes,
all of us in these places are just back-
ward and out-of-date. People who live
in those areas are just backward and
out-of-date. Our lives need to be trans-
formed by Washington, DC, bureau-
crats, whether we like it or not.
The disruption isn’t limited to just
environmental and energy issues; there
are so many more things Washington
Democrats want to get their hands
around.
Democrats are pushing Medicare for
None, a scheme that would make it un-
lawful to provide the private health in-
surance policies that American fami-
lies rely on and force everyone into a
brandnew government scheme de-
signed, of course, right here in Wash-
ington. It is ironic that this approach
would mean long waiting lists for peo-
ple with preexisting conditions and
cause over 180 million Americans to
lose the coverage they choose and rely
on. Republicans are dedicated to pro-
tecting Americans with preexisting
conditions. Republicans are the ones
fighting for American families as they
try to navigate the unaffordable wreck-
age of ObamaCare.
The story is the same on every issue:
Democrats aren’t interested in security
and stability for American families;
they are interested in Washington re-
designing middle-class Americans’
lives from scratch so they can conform
better to leftwing dreams.
Forty-plus—forty-plus—of our Demo-
cratic colleagues, including all of their
Presidential candidates, could not even
bring themselves to vote against the
obviously absurd socialist wish list we
considered yesterday. This is what the
modern Democratic Party wants to be.
These are their plans for the country.
At least the American people are cer-
tainly offered a very, very clear con-
trast.
DISASTER FUNDING
Madam President, on an entirely dif-
ferent matter, in recent months, nat-
ural disasters have occupied an out-
sized share of headlines across our
country. We have seen counties in Ala-
bama and Georgia bear the blows of a
vicious tornado, and we support the
loved ones of those 23 people whose
lives it claimed. We have seen a spate
of powerful hurricanes tear across the
shores of Florida and the Carolinas,
leaving tens of billions of dollars in
damage behind. Flooding has repeat-
edly caused damage in my home State
of Kentucky, and, of course, it is cur-
rently at major disaster levels in com-
munities across the Midwest.
In some places, the process of re-
building has already dragged on for
months. Families have faced the daily
struggle of getting things back to nor-
mal.
Others are still literally—literally—
underwater. Residents are wading
through the wreckage of homes and
businesses. Normal seems a long way
away.
From the gulf coast to the heartland,
there are Americans calling for our
help. Here in Congress we must have
their back. We must take swift and
comprehensive action. I am pleased to
say, a number of our colleagues have
crafted legislation that would allow us
to answer these calls for help from our
people.
The supplemental funding measure
advanced by the Senate yesterday
would deliver over $13 billion to help
American communities recover and re-
build following recent natural disas-
ters. It would mean more help for vic-
tims of tornadoes in our Southern
States, victims of hurricanes from
North Carolina to Puerto Rico, and the
families in Iowa, Nebraska, Missouri,
and Kansas, who are still, as we speak,
waiting for the waters of a truly cata-
strophic flood to recede. The legisla-
tion before us would equip the Depart-
ment of Defense to conduct urgent re-
pairs to bases and installations dam-
aged by storms. It would help Amer-
ica’s farmers and ranchers cover storm-
related losses, and it would help get
local schools, healthcare facilities, and
major infrastructure back on track
more quickly.
I am proud of the work put in by
many Members to prepare this latest
package so swiftly and thoroughly on
behalf of our communities in need. We
owe thanks to the leadership of Chair-
man SHELBY, along with the efforts of
Senator PERDUE, Senator ISAKSON, Sen-
ator SCOTT, Senator RUBIO, and others
who made this effort possible. Thanks
to them, the Senate can take action
soon on a comprehensive measure to
support our fellow citizens.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from California is recognized.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H. CON. RES. 24
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H. Con. Res. 24, expressing the
sense of Congress that the report of
Special Counsel Mueller should be
made available to the public and to
Congress and which is at the desk; fur-
ther, that the concurrent resolution be
agreed to; the preamble be agreed to;
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
reserving the right to object. As I men-
tioned yesterday, when a similar unan-
imous consent proposal was pro-
pounded, I have consistently supported
the proposition that the special coun-
sel should be allowed to complete his
work without interference, and I have
consistently supported the proposition
that his report ought to be released, to
the greatest extent possible, consistent
with the law and with the need to pro-
tect sources and methods and the need
to preserve the integrity of ongoing in-
vestigations, including investigations
the special counsel has referred to oth-
ers.
The Attorney General has committed
to as much transparency as possible in
the release of the report, and he is
working with the special counsel to-
ward that end. I think we should be
consistent in letting the special coun-
sel actually finish his work and not
just when we think it may be politi-
cally advantageous to one side or the
other for him to do so.
Therefore, Madam President, I ob-
ject.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from California.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent to make re-
marks as in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President,
last Friday, Special Counsel Mueller
submitted his report to Attorney Gen-
eral Barr. On Sunday, the Attorney
General provided a four-page summary
of that report to Congress and the
American people.
Unfortunately, the Attorney Gen-
eral’s summary tells us little about
what Special Counsel Mueller actually
found. In fact, according to the sum-
mary, Mueller’s office spent 2 years in-
vestigating, with a team of 19 lawyers
and 40 FBI agents and other profes-
sional staff. The special counsel issued
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.002 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2013
March 27, 2019
more than 2,800 subpoenas, executed
nearly 500 search warrants, obtained
more than 230 orders for communica-
tion records, issued almost 50 orders
authorizing the use of pen registers,
made 13 requests to foreign govern-
ments for evidence, and interviewed
approximately 500 witnesses. That is
quite a record.
The fact is, a four-page summary
cannot possibly illuminate what this
thorough of an investigation uncov-
ered. I find it so disappointing that so
many are rushing to judgment without
being able to see the full report or all
of the underlying facts.
This report should be made public. As
has been, I think, well stated, not only
is the official government interested,
but the American public is interested
in our findings as well.
We know the Russian Government
interfered with the U.S. election. That
has been reported by the intelligence
community and intelligence com-
mittee—I sit on that committee—and
it has been reaffirmed by the special
counsel’s investigation.
We also know, from court filings,
documents, and press reports, that the
President and at least 17 people associ-
ated with his campaign had more than
100 contacts with Russia or Russia’s
intermediaries.
However, Attorney General Barr’s
summary provides no information
about any of these contacts or multiple
offers from Russian-affiliated individ-
uals to assist the campaign, and that is
a quote—‘‘multiple offers from Rus-
sian-affiliated individuals to assist the
campaign’’—referenced in the Attorney
General’s summary.
Congress must determine the risks to
national security, whether there was,
in fact, misconduct, whether existing
laws are sufficient to deter and punish
election interference, and what next
steps are appropriate. The American
people also have a right to the truth
about what happened in the 2016 elec-
tion and to judge the facts for them-
selves.
Special Counsel Mueller also did not
draw a conclusion, one way or the
other, as to whether the President
committed a crime through his efforts
to obstruct the investigation. Instead,
Mr. Mueller wrote: ‘‘While this report
does not conclude that the President
committed a crime, it also does not ex-
onerate him.’’
Since Special Counsel Mueller elect-
ed to describe the facts but did not de-
cide whether to charge the President
with a crime, we don’t know why he
made this decision, but clearly we do
need to see the facts for ourselves to be
able to make a decision about how to
proceed and what, if any, additional
steps are necessary.
While the Attorney General con-
cluded there was no crime of obstruc-
tion committed, we knew that was his
conclusion 9 months ago when he wrote
a 10-page memo explaining why the
President can’t be charged with ob-
struction of justice. Special Counsel
Mueller found that there is ‘‘evidence
on both sides of the question.’’ Con-
gress and the American people should
be able to see that evidence and make
a determination, including what the
appropriate next steps are, if any.
I am very disappointed that some Re-
publicans are saying Democrats need
to move on before we even see the re-
port or underlying evidence. Many of
these Republicans called for eight con-
gressional investigations into the
Benghazi attack and demanded and re-
ceived 880,000 pages of documents re-
lated to the Clinton email investiga-
tion. We have also already obtained
documents related to Mueller’s inves-
tigation, including classified FISA
Court applications.
Of course, unwarranted foot-dragging
is really not good, and really bad for
this country. I had thought we were
past that with prior events where we
did take action, and we were able to
see both sides. After 37 indictments, 6
of whom were indicted Trump advisers,
as well as 7 guilty pleas, surely spend-
ing more than a week on understanding
what happened and asking for the full
report is warranted. How can we have
37 indictments, 6 Trump advisers, as
well as guilty pleas, without being able
to understand what actually happened
and not be afforded the material to
gain that understanding?
I hope this can be a bipartisan effort
to ensure the full record is produced
and the facts are uncovered. It is really
puzzling to me why the Republican side
would not want to do this. Do they pre-
sume guilt on their side, and therefore
they want to hide it from the public? If
you don’t, why wouldn’t you want
whatever the true facts are to come
out? The American people deserve no
less.
On March 14, the House of Represent-
atives passed a resolution calling for
Special Counsel Mueller’s report to be
made public. The vote was unanimous,
420 to 0—420 to 0. Both sides of the
House of Representatives said this
should happen.
Senator SCHUMER, our minority lead-
er, has now twice sought unanimous
consent for the Senate to consider that
resolution. These requests have been
blocked by Republicans. I don’t under-
stand that. If the House can consider
this, why can’t we look at what the
House has done? This, to my knowl-
edge, in the quarter of a century that I
have been in this body, has never hap-
pened before, where the Senate has ac-
tually refused to look at information.
I very much hope there can be a
change of mind and allow the U.S. Sen-
ate to do its due diligence in this mat-
ter. Hiding the information will not
solve the problem.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, there
is so much going on. So I will be ad-
dressing several topics today:
healthcare, climate change, Mr.
Mueller’s report, and Puerto Rico.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. President, two nights ago, Presi-
dent Donald Trump and Attorney Gen-
eral Barr decided to escalate their 2-
year war against healthcare to a whole
new level. They declared that the en-
tire Affordable Care Act, and the
healthcare for tens of millions of
Americans and protections for more
than 100 million, is unconstitutional
and ought to be eliminated.
Now, the President wants to go back
to repeal and replace again? Make our
day. The Republicans here in the Sen-
ate tried over and over to deal with re-
peal and replace. They couldn’t because
they have no replacement. The Amer-
ican people spoke loud and clear in the
November 2018 elections and addressed
the Republican antics by defeating
them resoundingly. The American peo-
ple resoundingly rejected the Repub-
lican plan of repeal and replace for
healthcare. In fact, very few Repub-
lican Senators would embrace it when
they were running as candidates.
Indeed, if the Republican Party
wants to be, in Donald Trump’s words,
‘‘the Party of healthcare,’’ God help
the middle class. God save the middle
class. God save people with disabilities.
God save the hundreds of millions with
preexisting conditions.
If the administration had its way,
the elimination of the Affordable Care
Act would send premiums soaring for
millions of Americans. It would revoke
coverage for tens of millions more who
gained coverage through Medicaid ex-
pansions. It would strike protections
for hundreds of millions, even people
who get coverage through their em-
ployer. It would tell college students
and graduates aged 21 to 26 that they
could no longer be on their parents’
healthcare.
Let’s not forget that this decision
would impose billions of dollars in new
prescription drug costs for seniors on
Medicare. Does the Republican Party
really want to raise the price for senior
citizens when they buy drugs? That is
what they are doing. That is what
President Trump is doing. I wasn’t at
the lunch where the President talked
about this, but I didn’t hear any re-
ports of any Republican in that room
rejecting what the President said when
he said repeal and replace. This Repub-
lican Party is the Party of healthcare?
Come on, now.
You can’t undo all the healthcare for
tens of millions, the protections for
preexisting conditions for hundreds of
millions, the drug costs for tens of mil-
lions of seniors, the protections for
millions of young college graduates,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.009 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2014 March 27, 2019
and say you are for healthcare. You
just can’t.
Compounding the injury, the Presi-
dent’s latest budget wants to cut more
than $1 trillion from Medicare and
Medicaid. In doing so, the President is
breaking his promise, blatantly and
uncaringly. He doesn’t care about what
he promised people. He is breaking his
promise to the American people that
he would do no such thing. This is the
party of healthcare? The Department
of Justice’s decision is a moral and in-
stitutional outrage. Not only would it
harm Americans, but it would under-
mine the rule of law.
Today I am announcing a new plan—
a new way for my colleagues to show
that they mean what they say. I am in-
troducing a simple amendment to the
pending appropriations bill we are con-
sidering here in the Senate. It will very
simply prohibit the Department of Jus-
tice from using any funding to litigate
the downfall of ACA in the circuit
court. Let’s see how all of our Repub-
lican colleagues who said they don’t
want to take away protections for pre-
existing conditions, who said they
don’t want to take away healthcare for
millions, and who said they want to
lower seniors’ drug costs vote on this.
Will the leader do what he has been
so characteristic of doing in the major-
ity and block a chance for this amend-
ment? Will any Republican on the
other side stand up and say: Don’t
block it, Mr. Leader; we have to pro-
tect the American people’s healthcare.
We shall see.
My Republican friends, you are going
to have the chance this afternoon or
when they vote on this bill to show us
which side you are on.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. President, the Senate finally
held the Republican leader’s promised
political stunt vote on the issue of cli-
mate change and the results did not
make the Republicans happy. The
stunt was exposed for what it was. The
whole issue of climate change—for the
first time, really—was debated here
and turned on our Republican col-
leagues. It became clear to the Amer-
ican people that our Republican col-
leagues have no plan for climate
change.
We have heard what they are against.
We haven’t heard a peep about a com-
prehensive plan that they are for. The
attempt by the Republicans to make a
mockery of the issue completely back-
fired. Leader MCCONNELL was forced to
answer some questions that he has
ducked for a very long time. Whether
or not Leader MCCONNELL intended it,
the fact is, at the very least, that this
Chamber is doing something it hasn’t
done in years. It held an actual debate
on the topic of climate change.
MCCONNELL’s stunt, again,
boomeranged on him and his col-
leagues, and they finally had to discuss
this issue rather than do what they
have liked to do for the last 5 years and
sweep it under the rug.
Yesterday, the day before, today, and
continuing in the future, we ask our
Republican colleagues three simple
questions to which they owe an answer
to their constituents. First, do you be-
lieve climate change is real? Second,
do you believe climate change is
caused by human activity? And third,
do you believe Congress has to act im-
mediately to deal with this problem?
We are finally getting some answers,
thanks to MCCONNELL’s trick that he
eventually played on himself. No less
than Leader MCCONNELL was asked by
the press yesterday afternoon at his
Ohio Clock press camp if he believes in
climate change, and he said he believes
it is real and he believes it is caused by
human activity. Well, there is one
more step if you believe all that: What
is your answer—not what you are
against but what you are for?
I want to commend Senators ROB-
ERTS, ALEXANDER, and MURKOWSKI.
They came to the floor and stated un-
equivocally and clearly that climate
change is real and caused by humans.
Make no mistake, in this glacial at-
mosphere controlled by the Repub-
licans, when it comes to climate
change, this is real progress, but, of
course, it is not close to enough.
As to the third question, Leader
MCCONNELL offered no solution. All we
got was a sham vote that he voted
against. So I ask Leader MCCONNELL:
What is your plan? Some Republicans
now seem to admit the challenges of
climate change. OK, that is good. Now,
what is your solution?
Turning the Senate floor into a cam-
paign ad studio is not a solution to cli-
mate change, nor is it very effective
even for their own purposes. Several
Senators seemed to suggest that this
problem can simply be solved by fund-
ing for more research. I support fund-
ing for research. It should be part of
any climate plan. Yet I say to my
friends—particularly, those from coal
States—that is not going to solve the
problem. Dealing with coal sequestra-
tion and coal technology will, at best,
solve 1 percent of the problem. So I say
to my friends: What about the other 99
percent, because 1 percent isn’t
enough? Temperatures will still go up.
The oceans will still rise. The terrible
kinds of disaster—flooding, tornadoes,
and wildfires—that we have had will
continue. To simply say that you are
doing some research into how to deal
with coal is not close to solving the
problem.
Yesterday was a golden opportunity
for this Chamber to come together and
show the American people that Repub-
licans are serious about tackling the
threat. I asked to create a bipartisan
select committee on climate change.
Let’s get some of the people who are
most interested in this issue from dif-
ferent ideological stripes and from dif-
ferent places in the country to come
together and come up with a solution.
Of course, once again, the Republican
leader blocked that genuine attempt.
Unfortunately, my good friend, the
junior Senator from Wyoming, ob-
jected when we asked for this. Instead,
the Senate wasted the American peo-
ple’s time on a ridiculous charade fea-
turing a sham vote that fooled no one.
Read the press today. Read the Wall
Street Journal. Yesterday’s vote on the
Republican version of the Green New
Deal was not just a cynical ploy—al-
though it was—it was the ultimate
‘‘tell’’ that Republicans, for all their
talk, have no real plan to combat cli-
mate change, no real plan on
healthcare, and no real plan on climate
change—just a lot of political stunts.
I am glad that finally, though—this
is the good news here—some of my col-
leagues are starting to see the light
and admit that it is real and admit
that it is caused by human activity.
Now, they need to put their money
where their mouth is and work with us
to take action that matches the scale
of the problem. If our colleagues refuse
to join us on a bipartisan basis in cre-
ating this select committee, we Demo-
crats aren’t going to wait. We will take
action on our own.
Later today, we will be announcing
our own path. We are going on offense
on climate change, keeping a spotlight
on this issue and making sure that this
Chamber keeps debating this most ur-
gent issue of our day.
We cannot play politics with our
children’s future any longer. I have a
new grandson. By the time he grows
up, I don’t want the waters to be rising,
the climate to be changing, and the
whole world totally discombobulated
so he can’t live a good and happy life.
We should all feel that way.
Avoiding the problem, whether it is
because special interests are saying to
avoid it—the Koch brothers, coal in-
dustry, oil industry, and everyone
else—is not serving our country well.
PUERTO RICO
Mr. President, the Republicans and
the White House are refusing to make
several minor changes to the disaster
bill under consideration today—
changes that will help Puerto Rico, the
U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Northern
Mariana Islands.
Puerto Rico was devastated by Hurri-
cane Maria a year and a half ago—dev-
astation we haven’t probably seen in
any other part of our country. It is re-
ported that nearly $91 billion of dam-
age was done by the hurricane.
Puerto Rico is still struggling to re-
cover. These are American citizens.
Let’s not forget that. These are not
people from some foreign land. Yet it
has been publicly reported that the
President has told his staff to find
ways to limit Federal dollars from
going to Puerto Rico. It was even re-
ported that at yesterday’s lunch with
Republicans, the President complained
that Puerto Rico has been getting too
much aid. He said he ‘‘doesn’t want an-
other single dollar going to the is-
land,’’ even though he has held up the
dollars that Democrats and Repub-
licans voted for.
We help Americans when there is a
disaster. We don’t pick and choose be-
cause they may not vote for us—or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.003 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2015
March 27, 2019
vote at all—or because we don’t like
the elected official. These are people
who are hurting.
What the President is doing with
Puerto Rico is disgraceful but typical
of his view to divide and pick winners
and losers. What the President is doing
is unacceptable and un-American.
I urge my Republican colleagues to
come to the table, to accept the com-
monsense changes we have proposed to
help the territories recover—the same
proposals that passed the House—and
to help us pass a disaster package that
addresses the needs not of some but of
all disaster survivors and that address-
es the needs of all Americans who are
affected, not just those he happens to
like. That is not what any President
before has done. That is not what
America does.
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. President, finally, I want to say
a few words on the report by Special
Counsel Mueller.
From the start, the Democrats have
argued that nothing short of full trans-
parency will satisfy the American peo-
ple’s right to know what happened dur-
ing Russia’s attack on our election.
That is why it is unacceptable that Mr.
BARR, who reached his initial conclu-
sions quickly—in 48 hours—now needs
several weeks, he says, to review the
report, and there are reports that he
may now only release a summary of
that finding.
First, let me talk about the time.
Attorney General Barr moved like a
hare to get out the summary he wrote
with the purpose of exonerating the
President. He is now moving like a tor-
toise to issue Mueller’s full report.
People are going to ask: What the heck
is going on? Is there some political mo-
tivation here? Americans are entitled
to see the full report, not a summary.
We all know the intelligence commu-
nity can redact parts of the report—
small they will be—to protect secret
sources, but we also expect the rest of
the report to be issued, not a summary.
Mr. BARR has issued one brief summary
already, and many Americans don’t
trust that summary because they want
to see the whole report before jumping
to a conclusion. So we need the report
now, without delay. We can’t have po-
litical considerations enter into it.
‘‘Oh, we will delay it for several weeks
to let things cool off.’’ I hope that is
not what is happening.
In any case, we need the report now.
This is too important for Mr. BARR to
be playing politics. He can remove any
cloud of suspicion by releasing the full
report as the President and members of
his party call for. When we read reports
that Barr only wants to release a sum-
mary and that Leader MCCONNELL is
unsupportive of transparency, some-
thing doesn’t smell right.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, yester-
day afternoon, the Senate voted on the
Green New Deal—the Democrats’ $93
trillion socialist fantasy.
How did the Democrats vote on this
deal? They voted present. That is right.
There were 43 out of 47 Members of the
Democratic caucus who voted present.
This may be the first time in my ex-
perience here that I have ever seen a
piece of legislation and people who au-
thored that legislation—in this case,
there were 13 Democrats who authored
the bill, cosponsored the bill, intro-
duced the bill, and indicated that ac-
tion on the issue needed to be taken
now—proceed to vote present. I have
never seen that in my time either in
the House or in the Senate. There was
always an opportunity, as the Pre-
siding Officer knows, in the House of
Representatives, when you voted by
electronic machine, to punch the yel-
low ‘‘present’’ option. You had red or
green or present, but very rarely was
that used. Yet I don’t think I have ever
seen, in the U.S. Senate, 13 U.S. Sen-
ators file a bill, introduce a bill, co-
sponsor a bill, talk about how impor-
tant it is that we deal with it and deal
with it immediately, and then proceed
to vote present. That is what happened
yesterday.
I want to step back for a minute and
talk about the Green New Deal—the
Democrats’ plan to put the government
in charge of everything from your en-
ergy to your healthcare.
The costs of this plan would be stag-
geringly high. One think tank released
its first estimate that found that the
Green New Deal would cost somewhere
between $51 trillion and $93 trillion
over a 10-year period—between $51 tril-
lion and $93 trillion. The 2017 gross do-
mestic product for the entire world—
the whole planet—only came to $80.7
trillion, which is more than $10 trillion
less than the Democrats are proposing
to spend on the Green New Deal. This
$93 trillion is more than the amount of
money the U.S. Government has spent
in its entire history.
So how do the Democrats plan to
cover that $93 trillion? Well, they don’t
actually have a plan. The Green New
Deal resolution itself makes a vague
reference to ‘‘community grants, pub-
lic banks, and other public financing.’’
Then, of course, the Democrats have
their favorite funding source, which is
taxing the rich. The problem is, there
is no way taxing the rich would even
come close to paying for the Green New
Deal. One analyst found that three
Democratic proposals—the New York
Representative’s proposed 70-percent
top tax rate, the Massachusetts Sen-
ator’s wealth tax, and the Hawaii Sen-
ator’s financial transactions tax—
would together pay for approximately 4
percent of the Green New Deal.
Taxing every millionaire in the
United States at a 100-percent rate for
10 years would bring in only a tiny
fraction of $93 trillion. Taxing every
household making more than $200,000 a
year at a 100-percent rate for 10 years
wouldn’t get the Democrats anywhere
close to $93 trillion. Taxing every fam-
ily making more than $100,000 a year at
a 100-percent rate for 10 years would
still leave the Democrats far short of
$93 trillion.
The Green New Deal is not a plan
that can be paid for by taxing the rich.
This plan would be paid for on the
backs of working families. The size of
the tax hikes that would be required to
even begin to finance this massive gov-
ernment expansion would sharply di-
minish Americans’ standard of living
and usher in a new era of diminished
prosperity, and I haven’t even men-
tioned the freedom of choice Ameri-
cans would lose and give up under the
Green New Deal.
Your car’s engine would likely soon
become illegal. Washington planners
could force you to rebuild your house
to meet strict, new, energy-efficient
guidelines. Your ability to travel by air
might be restricted or entirely elimi-
nated.
The Green New Deal doesn’t limit
itself to massive government expansion
in the area of energy.
Among other things, it would also
put the government in charge of your
healthcare. So, if you like your health
plan, get ready to give it up. Then
there are the millions of current en-
ergy jobs that would be lost under this
plan. Plus, there would likely be sig-
nificant job losses in other industries
as small businesses and larger compa-
nies would find themselves being un-
able to cope with the Green New Deal’s
mandates and taxes.
For American families, the Green
New Deal would mean smaller pay-
checks, fewer jobs, fewer choices, and a
permanently reduced standard of liv-
ing.
You don’t even have to take my word
for it. Here is what the AFL–CIO,
which represents 121⁄2 million workers
in a number of unions, had to say about
the Green New Deal:
The Green New Deal resolution is far too
short on specific solutions that speak to the
jobs of our members and the critical sectors
of our economy. It is not rooted in an engi-
neering-based approach and makes promises
that are not achievable or realistic. We will
not accept proposals that could cause imme-
diate harm to millions of our members and
their families. We will not stand by and
allow threats to our members’ jobs and their
families’ standard of living go unanswered.
Let me repeat that:
We will not accept proposals that could
cause immediate harm to millions of our
members and their families. We will not
stand by and allow threats to our members’
jobs and their families’ standard of living go
unanswered.
Again, these are quotes from the
AFL–CIO. That is what it is saying
about the Democrats’ Green New Deal.
The American people have a right to
know where the Democrats stand on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.004 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2016 March 27, 2019
this massive government expansion.
Are they for it or are they against it?
Their Presidential candidates have em-
braced this plan. There were 13 Senate
Democrats, as I mentioned, who spon-
sored the original Green New Deal res-
olution in the Senate, and there were
92 Democrats who sponsored the origi-
nal Green New Deal resolution in the
House. Yet, yesterday, just four Mem-
bers of the Democratic caucus had the
courage to make their positions clear.
As for the rest, well, it is actually
understandable that most Democrats
didn’t want to go on the record as sup-
porting, perhaps, the most irrespon-
sible and costly resolution ever to
come before the U.S. Senate. It is pret-
ty difficult to tell your constituents
that you support cutting their pay-
checks, eliminating millions of their
jobs, and drastically reducing their
choices.
I am sure there are more than four
Members of the Democratic caucus who
don’t support this plan, but the Demo-
crats are more and more enthralled
with the far-left wing of their party,
and, clearly, some Democrats were
afraid to actually reject this plan with
their votes.
So what happened? There were 43 out
of 47 Members of the Democratic cau-
cus here in the U.S. Senate who left
the American people in limbo about
their views, and they ended up voting
present.
I would love to think that every
Democrat who voted present yesterday
has realized how damaging the Green
New Deal would be to working families.
But the scary truth is that while some
Democrats may have voted present
simply because they wanted to avoid
angering the far-left wing of their
party, other Democrats really believe—
they really believe—in the Green New
Deal.
The junior Senator from Vermont
was asked if the Green New Deal goes
too far. His answer? ‘‘No. You cannot
go too far on the issue of climate
change.’’
Really? You can’t go too far? Not
even if you saddle millions of families
with exorbitant taxes and other costs
just for miniscule gains? Not even if
you permanently damage the American
economy?
One of the Green New Deal’s authors
has actually stated that it is a legiti-
mate question whether people should
have children because of climate
change. Is that something the Green
New Deal supporters want to legislate
too? Really?
The Democrats’ Green New Deal ex-
tremism is disturbing, and I am deeply
disappointed in yesterday’s vote be-
cause the American people deserve to
hear where every Democrat stands on
this dangerous plan. Americans deserve
to know whether Democrats are willing
to hike their taxes, eliminate their
jobs, and diminish drastically their
freedoms.
I hope more Democrats will join the
four who rejected this massive govern-
ment overreach and will work with Re-
publicans to develop responsible solu-
tions to protect our environment—so-
lutions that don’t hurt American fami-
lies.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
CELEBRATING VAISAKHI
Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I rise
today to mark a very special day for
the Sikh religion and the Sikh commu-
nity across America and in Pennsyl-
vania—and this is the holiday of
Vaisakhi.
Although the youngest among the
major religions of the world, Sikhism
has emerged as a distinct socio-reli-
gious community. By the numbers, it
is, I believe, the sixth largest religion
in the world, with 30 million adherents
worldwide, and approximately 700,000
Sikhs have chosen to make their home
in the United States.
A large number of those Sikhs live in
my State of Pennsylvania. In fact,
there are several Sikh places of wor-
ship across Pennsylvania. They are
known as a Gurdwara, and they are lo-
cated in and around Philadelphia,
Pittsburgh, Allentown, and Erie.
Sikhism itself was founded in the
15th century in South Asia on the prin-
ciples of equality, justice, and respect
for all human beings.
Sikhs pray twice a day—in the morn-
ing and in the evening—and they pray
for the welfare of mankind.
Over a period of 239 years, Sikhism
was established by 10 gurus. The first
among them was Guru Nanak. These
gurus were learned, spiritual guides de-
voted to improving the moral well-
being of their followers and the com-
munities in which they lived.
In 1699, the 10th and final guru—
Gobind Singh—founded a fellowship of
soldier saints called the Khalsa Panth.
Today, Sikhs celebrate this occasion
with the holiday that they call
Vaisakhi. This year, Sikhs across the
United States and around the world
will celebrate Vaisakhi on April 14.
For Sikhs, Vaisakhi is a very special
time. It is a special time to celebrate
and share their faith with their friends
and their neighbors. The occasion is
marked by dancing and parades. Every-
one is welcome to attend these celebra-
tions, and they attract Americans from
all religious, cultural, and ethnic back-
grounds.
Vaisakhi celebrations are a really vi-
brant affair, and members of the Sikh
community wear bright orange or yel-
low festive clothes to mark the occa-
sion. These colors represent the spirit
and the joy of the celebration.
It is interesting to note that when
Vaisakhi is celebrated in the Sikh
homeland of Punjab, the gold and yel-
low wheat fields are ready to be har-
vested.
This year, the Sikh Coordination
Committee East Coast has organized a
parade in Washington, DC, on April 6
to commemorate Vaisakhi as National
Sikh Day. The theme of the parade is
Sikh identity, Sikh culture, and the
Sikh way of life. Thousands of Sikhs
from all over the United States will be
here participating and celebrating.
I came here this morning because I
want to add my voice as one wishing
the Sikh community great luck and
great joy at this parade and in the very
joyous celebration of Vaisakhi.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, yester-
day, the Senate had a significant vote.
Senators made their voices heard on
the Green New Deal, and after a lot of
grandstanding from those Senate
Democrats who initially rushed to sup-
port this proposal, not a single one
voted for the proposal.
However, my Republican colleagues
and I didn’t vote present. We don’t be-
lieve that is what our constituents sent
us here to do. Instead, we voted against
the socialist grab bag of policies that
would set us back an estimated $93 tril-
lion and would bankrupt the State of
Texas. To be clear, voting no on the
Green New Deal isn’t a referendum on
the issue of lowering carbon emissions
or finding cleaner energy; it is saying
no to the litany of far-left proposals
that would leave American families
footing the bill to the tune of tens of
thousands of dollars each.
The Green New Deal promised things
like free higher education. You might
have thought this was really about the
environment; well, it was a grab bag of
government handouts and takeovers. It
also included Medicare for All, which
means that if you have employer-pro-
vided health insurance, you couldn’t
keep it. Even President Obama said: If
you like what you have, you can keep
it. But not now—not with this new,
radical group of Democrats who now
say: Forget that promise. We are going
to take what you have, even if you like
it.
There, of course, was the guarantee
of jobs. I noted yesterday that the only
thing missing from the Green New Deal
is free beer and pizza for everybody.
It has been estimated that imple-
menting the full list of the Green New
Deal’s promises would cost the average
American family $65,000 a year, which
is well over what many Americans
make annually.
These ludicrous proposals were
pitched as a way to uplift the middle
class and create jobs, but in reality,
they would have undone the economic
gains we made these past 2 years under
the Trump administration. We could
say goodbye to the record-low unem-
ployment levels and the growth we
have been seeing. What middle-class
American do you know who could af-
ford an extra $65,000 each year to pay
the Federal Government for the litany
of Green New Deal line items, such as
tearing down every building and re-
placing it with a green version?
Even the liberal AFL–CIO’s energy
committee had this to say:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.006 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2017
March 27, 2019
We will not accept proposals that could
cause immediate harm to millions of our
members and their families. We will not
stand by and allow threats to our members’
jobs and their families’ standard of living to
go unanswered.
This is the AFL–CIO.
Instead of the Green New Deal, we
should follow the Texas model of inno-
vation. But it is not just Texas; there
are some great private sector initia-
tives taking place that deal with this
concern about CO2 emissions in a much
more practical, rational, free market
way. We have a thriving energy sector
in Texas, as the Presiding Officer
knows, and it isn’t stifled by overregu-
lation. That is one reason it is thriv-
ing.
The Green New Deal would force us
to rely on foreign energy sources be-
cause we wouldn’t be able to produce
enough here in the United States to
keep the lights on. But with invest-
ment in innovative solutions and new
technologies, we can ensure that our
country can remain energy inde-
pendent and deal with legitimate con-
cerns about the environment.
I applaud our colleagues who voted
against this legislation to ensure that
the American people won’t have to
pick up the tab for the far-left wing
agenda of our Democratic colleagues.
Conversely, I stand ready to work on
real, achievable solutions and to find
ways to reduce emissions and lessen
our environmental footprint without
overregulating and overcharging.
DEER PARK, TEXAS
On another note, most people across
the country hadn’t heard of Deer Park,
TX, until last Sunday. They were prob-
ably more familiar with nearby Hous-
ton, TX. But last Sunday morning was
when the first reports came rolling out
that residents were forced to shelter in
place when a chemical tank at the
Intercontinental Terminals Company,
or ITC, caught fire.
ITC’s tanks hold petrochemical liq-
uids and gases used to produce gaso-
line—all highly flammable and haz-
ardous. As many could have predicted,
but certainly no one had hoped, the fire
spread quickly to a nearby tank. By
Wednesday, seven tanks were aflame.
Firefighters fought for 3 days to extin-
guish the massive flames, and just
when it seemed as if the fire was under
control, it flared again last Friday,
burning through 11 storage tanks in
total. A massive fireball and billowing
plumes of smoke could be seen for
miles. This didn’t stop, as new tanks
caught fire, forcing schools and busi-
nesses to close and residents to right-
fully question their safety.
Unfortunately, the story doesn’t end
there. By the end of the week, as ITC
drained chemicals from the remaining
exposed tanks, the containment wall
surrounding the tank farm burst. Foam
used to fight the fires and contami-
nants leaked, forcing a portion of the
Houston Ship Channel to close and
bringing a new round of health risks
associated with the release of airborne
and liquid toxins.
Earlier this week, officials from ITC
said that cleanup crews had removed
more than 33,000 barrels of an oily mix-
ture from the ship channel. That is 1
million gallons, which is more than I
can even imagine.
The chemical fire and resulting
chemical spill not only brought grave
health concerns to those who live and
work around Deer Park and pollution
to the air and environment, it also
ground businesses in the region to a
halt. Because of the chemical spill,
nearly 7 miles of the Houston Ship
Channel closed for 3 days, cutting off
this booming area of our economy from
the waterway and delaying shipment of
goods up and down the ship channel.
Some estimates show that the region’s
oil and gas and petrochemical sectors
lost $1 billion in revenue as a result of
the closure. This ship channel sees
hundreds of shipments a day, with
tankers and freighters moving various
products and goods up and down the
shoreline to businesses surrounding the
Houston area.
The effects from the closure of facili-
ties and companies in the area will re-
quire a costly and lengthy recovery.
Folks along the ship channel in South-
east Houston will also be concerned
about health consequences until we can
find out more answers.
The ITC’s tanks contain chemicals
commonly used in the production of
gasoline—xylene, naphtha, pyrolysis
gasoline. Naphtha, in particular, can
irritate and burn the nose and throat
when inhaled. When exposed to fire,
naphtha can produce poisonous gases.
The health effects of these chemicals
are of grave concern, but it is not just
the short-term effects—the irritation
and burning—that are concerning; con-
tact with these chemicals can poten-
tially have lasting, long-term effects,
making it vital to discern the exact
level of exposure to these chemicals
caused as a result of the fire.
It is important that we get to the
bottom of this, and I am proud that our
local, State, and Federal officials have
quickly jumped into action. The Texas
Commission on Environmental Qual-
ity, the Environmental Protection
Agency, local responders, and the
Coast Guard were all on the scene
quickly and have been working around
the clock since the start of the first
fire. The U.S. Chemical Safety Board
and the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, or OSHA, have
opened investigations into the fires.
The Environmental Protection Agency,
along with the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality, are conducting
continuous air quality checks.
I appreciate the swift action by local,
State, and Federal agencies to protect
my constituents in the region and con-
duct investigations to ensure that we
can prevent this type of event from
ever occurring again. I will monitor
those investigations closely as they
progress and will ensure they have the
resources they need in order to com-
plete their work.
Sometimes when people hear us talk
about regulation, they act as if our
side of the aisle believes that no regu-
lation is appropriate, which is entirely
false. It is important to have regula-
tions to protect the public safety of the
American people and particularly in
places around tank farms like this one
in Deer Park. I think it is very impor-
tant that any existing regulations—
that we make sure those regulations
and laws are enforced.
As part of this investigation, I hope
we will find out that there were no vio-
lations of existing regulations and
laws, but if there were, then the people
responsible should be held accountable.
I am not going to prejudge at this early
point before the investigation takes
place whether there is any legal re-
sponsibility or whether anybody did
things they should not have done con-
sistent with the laws and regulations
that do exist, but I will say that once
the investigation is complete, if there
were violations of regulations designed
to protect the public safety or laws
passed by Congress and signed by the
President, that I will be the first to de-
mand there be accountability for viola-
tion of those regulations and those
laws.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
H.R. 268
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, on Janu-
ary 16, more than 2 months ago, the
House passed a supplemental appro-
priations bill, H.R. 268, which addressed
the needs of all communities impacted
by recent natural disasters. The House-
passed disaster bill provided assistance
to help people impacted by Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, the Hawaii vol-
canoes, and the California wildfires. It
provided aid to the people in the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands in Guam, who were struck last
year by typhoons, and the people of
American Samoa, who were devastated
by Cyclone Gita. It continued assist-
ance for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Vir-
gin Islands to help them continue their
recovery from Hurricanes Irma and
Maria. They passed it 2 months ago.
Instead of moving quickly on this
package to help those Americans in
need, Senate Republicans, at the Presi-
dent’s insistence, held up the House
bill because it included assistance for
Americans in Puerto Rico. Instead of
giving aid to the people who need it,
the President has chosen to delay it
over petty grudges and political con-
cerns.
The President’s refusal to help Amer-
icans in Puerto Rico not only delays
the important disaster bill that many
of the other States are relying on to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.010 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2018 March 27, 2019
speed their recovery efforts, it dis-
criminates against the over 3 million
Americans who reside in Puerto Rico,
and that is wrong. We have never—cer-
tainly in my years here—had disaster
bills in which we say that Americans in
this State can be helped, but we do not
like the Americans in this State, so
they cannot be helped.
This is the United States of America.
We are supposed to take care of all of
our citizens when there is a crisis, not
pick and choose who gets assistance
based on who we are aligned with po-
litically. I have voted for disaster relief
for red States, for blue States, for pur-
ple States because they are part of the
United States of America. I feel that as
a country we have to come together to
help each other when there is a dis-
aster.
Certainly Republican Senators and
Democratic Senators helped the State
of Vermont when we were hit with a
disaster a few years ago. Well, today it
is Puerto Rico, and all of the Ameri-
cans in Puerto Rico need our help.
A year and a half ago, it was hit by
two back-to-back category 5 hurri-
canes. It is rare that anybody ever gets
hit by two back-to-back category 5
hurricanes. An estimated 2,975 Ameri-
cans lost their lives. Homes were de-
molished, communities destroyed. It
was an extraordinary disaster, and it
requires a commensurate extraor-
dinary response.
I am glad we are finally moving to
debate on the House-passed bill because
we need that. We actually ought to just
pass the House-passed bill, but, unfor-
tunately, the Republicans say they will
file a substitute that will take us back-
ward, not forward.
Again, at the President’s insistence,
it eliminates critical assistance for the
Americans in Puerto Rico provided for
in the House bill, as well as assistance
to other U.S. territories. It eliminates
State-revolving funds that would help
Puerto Rico rebuild damaged water
systems and ensure they are resilient
and can stand up to future storms. It
eliminates a 100-percent cost-share for
FEMA that would help cash-strapped
Puerto Rico access Federal aid. It
eliminates money to help Americans
ensure that Puerto Rico is able to re-
build their electrical grid. It elimi-
nates $68 million in Medicaid assist-
ance for American Samoa, Guam, and
the Northern Mariana Islands, whose
programs face serious shortages due to
the increased need.
Some of my friends on the other side
of the aisle claim that this money is
not needed. They point to previous dis-
aster supplemental bills and argue that
we have already addressed the needs of
Puerto Rico, and we should move on.
Well, that is untrue. We provided Puer-
to Rico with significant assistance, as
we should have, given the extraor-
dinary nature of the storms that rav-
aged the island and given the extent of
the devastation, but as damage assess-
ments come in and the full picture of
the devastation becomes clear, we
must continually reassess and provide
them what is needed to fully recover.
I remember when this first happened,
back when the White House was saying
there may be two or three or four or a
dozen fatalities in Puerto Rico. Well,
they were off by thousands. There were
2,975 people who lost their lives, not
just a handful.
We don’t simply appropriate the
same amount of money to each State
or territory that is hit with a disaster
no matter the level of damage. We look
at each place, and we provide what is
needed for the people to rebuild their
homes, their communities, and their
lives.
I will give you one example of why
one size does not fit all. With Katrina,
we in Congress passed six supplemental
disaster packages—not one, six—to
help rebuild Louisiana and Mississippi
because the storm was unlike anything
we had ever seen. They needed the as-
sistance coming in over time. I sup-
ported the help for Louisiana and Mis-
sissippi. No one at the time would have
argued to stop after the first tranche of
funding we provided and then leave
them to fend for themselves, because
they are Americans. We saw there were
more problems, and we added money.
This is no different.
The President reportedly came to the
Capitol and met with Senators yester-
day and made his case as to why we
should not continue aid to Puerto Rico.
Let me repeat. The President of the
United States—something I have never
seen in my 45 years here with either a
Republican or Democratic President—
affirmatively argued that we should re-
frain from helping American citizens in
need.
Of course, like so many things the
President has said, it was not based in
fact or reality. He claimed that Puerto
Rico had received over $90 billion in
Federal assistance, but it has not. He
knows it has not. Why does he keep
saying this when he has to know that
what he is saying is not true? He
claims it is using Federal money to pay
off its debt. It has not. The President
knows that is not true. Why does he
keep saying it?
Some here in this body have claimed
that Puerto Rico has in the bank $20
billion in previously appropriated
money that they have failed to spend,
and they argue that we should provide
no more until it is drawn down. I do
not know if they are getting their talk-
ing points from the White House or
what, but that is simply false.
The bulk of the money to which they
refer, which we Republicans and Demo-
crats alike voted to appropriate over 1
year ago, is being held up by the ad-
ministration in redtape and bureauc-
racy. It seems as though it is being
purposely held back because of inac-
tion by this administration. Billions of
dollars that Congress approved over 1
year ago for disaster recovery efforts
remain in the U.S. Treasury in Wash-
ington, DC, not where they belong—as-
sisting the American citizens of Puerto
Rico. There is no excuse for that.
They cannot have it both ways. The
administration cannot simultaneously
hold up recovery dollars for Puerto
Rico and then point to Puerto Rico’s
failure to spend it as an excuse not to
provide additional assistance. In other
words, they are holding these billions
away from Puerto Rico, saying: You
cannot have it, but why are you not
spending it?
Come on. You cannot do that. You
cannot claim they are not spending the
money that is being held back from
them, and then say that is why they do
not need additional assistance.
Yesterday, Senator SCHUMER and I
sent a letter to the administration
about these bureaucratic delays and
demanded answers.
I ask unanimous consent to have
printed in the RECORD a copy of a let-
ter dated March 25, 2019, to Mick
Mulvaney, Peter Gaynor, and Ben Car-
son.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, March 25, 2019.
Hon. MICK MULVANEY,
Director, Office of Management and Budget,
Washington, DC.
Hon. PETER GAYNOR,
Acting Administrator, Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency, Washington, DC.
Hon. BEN CARSON,
Secretary, Department of Housing
and Urban Development, Washington, DC.
DEAR DIRECTOR MULVANEY, HONORABLE
GAYNOR, AND HONORABLE CARSON, Last No-
vember, we wrote to express our concern
about the significant and unsupported delays
related to the immediate and long-term re-
covery needs of Puerto Rico in the aftermath
of catastrophic Hurricanes Irma and Maria.
Specifically, we highlighted the lack of ef-
fective Federal interagency coordination
under the leadership of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget (OMB), which has and con-
tinues to impede on the Commonwealth’s
ability to finalize emergency repairs through
FEMA’s Public Assistance categories A and
B programs, and subsequently its efforts to
move toward permanent reconstruction.
These delays are not unique to FEMA, as the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment (HUD) has also been affected by OMB’s
micromanagement and excessive bureauc-
racy as they attempt to administer and over-
see Puerto Rico’s Community Development
Block Grant—Disaster Recovery (CDBG–DR)
funding. The lack of leadership and coordina-
tion, combined with delays in meeting the
basic needs of the island, more than eighteen
months after receiving a presidential dis-
aster declaration, has left far too many chil-
dren and elderly citizens in unhealthy and
unsafe conditions, families in severely dam-
aged homes, and communities without ade-
quate infrastructure to sustain a decent
quality of life.
The response that we received, several
months later, was wholly inadequate and
contained no information to respond to our
concerns. Specifically, we raised concerns
about OMB’s failure to work expeditiously
with HUD to finalize and issue a Federal
Register Notice for nearly $16 billion in
CDBG–DR mitigation funding that Congress
appropriated in February 2018, of which $8.3
billion has been allocated to Puerto Rico. As
a result, this critical source of funding re-
mains unavailable for obligation more than
a year after it was appropriated, and nearly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.012 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2019
March 27, 2019
a year and half after the historic hurricanes
made landfall. The purpose of the mitigation
allocation was to provide not only Puerto
Rico, but more than 15 other cities, states
and territories the resources necessary to re-
build their homes, businesses, and critical
infrastructure to updated construction
standards in order to prevent the same level
of destruction in future disaster events. As
you are probably aware, some reconstruction
has started to take place, but without the
availability of the mitigation funding, Puer-
to Rico is unable to strategically adopt these
improved standards, or leverage this critical
resource toward a comprehensive island-wide
rebuild strategy. Further delays in the avail-
ability of funding is unacceptable. We insist
that you finalize the mitigation notice in the
next 30 days.
It has also come to our attention that sev-
eral issues have reached a critical point with
FEMA that are hindering the recovery ef-
forts in Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Is-
lands as well. FEMA needs to work with the
territories to develop ways to expedite ap-
provals and obligations of funding, especially
for priority projects. In addition, FEMA
needs to develop clear policies with regard to
the issues laid out below, share them openly
with Puerto Rico, the US Virgin Islands, and
Congress, and ensure that they are being im-
plemented in a consistent way.
First, finalizing the consistent implemen-
tation of the ‘‘pre-disaster condition’’ lan-
guage from section 20601 of the Bipartisan
Budget Act of 2018 is paramount. The intent
of this provision was to facilitate the re-
building of infrastructure, including the
electric grid, in a way that is resilient to fu-
ture weather events, reduces the need for fu-
ture federal disaster assistance, and makes
use of technology and modern standards
when rebuilding. Congress specifically
wished to avoid a situation where the islands
would be forced to simply plug new pieces
into antiquated infrastructure, which would
only lead to more frequent failures in the fu-
ture. It has come to our attention that there
is a lack of consistency and transparency in
the way that FEMA is implementing this
language, and that FEMA’s interpretation of
this language may be contrary to congres-
sional intent. For example, recent news re-
ports indicate that FEMA has reduced its
cost estimate for a Project Worksheet cov-
ering rebuilding of a number of schools be-
cause upgrades to meet industry standards
were removed from the scope of work, after
previously being discussed by the stake-
holders involved. FEMA must immediately
rectify this situation and issue clear guid-
ance and expectations on its approach to im-
plementing both the ‘‘pre-disaster condi-
tion’’ and the ‘‘industry standards’’ portion
of the Bipartisan Budget Act. If FEMA needs
additional guidance from Congress, we must
be informed of this need immediately.
Second, we are also concerned about
changing FEMA guidance and approaches
leading to substantial replication of efforts
and excessive delays in approving and obli-
gating funding for priority projects in the
territories. For example, according to rep-
resentatives of the Commonwealth, in March
of 2018 FEMA determined that the level of
damage to the Vieques Hospital justified re-
placement of the building, instead of repair.
Accordingly, in August of 2018, a scope of
work was agreed upon by the stakeholders
involved, and coordination between FEMA,
COR3, and the municipality began on the
cost estimate of the replacement project.
However, two months later, FEMA rep-
resentatives informed COR3 and the munici-
pality that they intended to review the va-
lidity of the replacement decision that
FEMA had previously made, sending the
agreed upon decision to the Expert Panel for
their review. A year after the initial decision
to replace the building was made, the fate of
the Vieques Hospital project remains in
question, and it appears that no real
progress has been made in addressing the
long-term health care needs of the people of
Vieques, who continue to rely on a mobile
clinic.
Last, when FEMA provides disaster assist-
ance, the receiving State or Territory is re-
sponsible for implementing financial con-
trols to ensure that funds obligated for a
project by FEMA are drawn down by the
grantee for the approved purpose. Currently,
FEMA applies additional fiscal oversight re-
quirements specifically to Puerto Rico,
which require the Commonwealth to provide
detailed documentation to validate that any
costs incurred with disaster assistance fund-
ing are for allowable expenses. FEMA manu-
ally validates a percentage of those actions.
Negotiations to end these additional over-
sight measures and expedite the processing
of recovery funding have been ongoing; how-
ever, it’s unclear what remaining steps Puer-
to Rico must take to assume full responsi-
bility of their recovery assistance. Until
FEMA approves the transition of fiscal over-
sight to Puerto Rico, these extraordinary
measures will stay in place. FEMA must be
clear about the changes Puerto Rico needs to
make in order to properly manage its own
recovery expenses and eliminate any unnec-
essary bureaucratic steps.
As the territories continue to recover, it is
crucial that FEMA address these issues and
move forward with a stronger sense of ur-
gency and consideration for the unique
issues that they face. A recovery of this
scale requires consistency, transparency, and
constant coordination with territory offi-
cials.
Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands
were hit by back-to-back Category 5 hurri-
canes, and the damage to the islands was
catastrophic. An estimated 2,975 people lost
their lives, homes were demolished, and com-
munities destroyed. This extraordinary dis-
aster requires a commensurate extraor-
dinary response. We have a responsibility to
come to the aid of fellow U.S. citizens in
times of need, and this is certainly one of
those times.
We ask for a detailed response providing an
update on the status of these issues and the
projected timeframe for their final resolu-
tion be provided without delay. Please re-
spond by April 5, 2019.
Sincerely,
PATRICK LEAHY,
U.S. Senator.
CHARLES E. SCHUMER,
U.S. Senator.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, yester-
day the inspector general of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment announced that it will review
whether the White House has delib-
erately interfered with the timely dis-
tribution of hurricane funds to Puerto
Rico. That is pretty amazing. I have
never seen a case that I remember
where the inspector general of Housing
and Urban Development had to look
into whether the White House was de-
liberately interfering with funds to go
to a disaster area.
I know firsthand what it is like to
see a State hit by disaster. Tropical
Storm Irene hit Vermont in 2011, and it
devastated our State. People lost their
homes, roads were washed out, bridges
destroyed, and communities forever
changed. I saw bridges twisted like a
child’s toy. I saw farmhouses that had
been on the north side of the river,
which were now on the south side of
the river, upside down and destroyed. I
saw farmers’ fields wiped out, busi-
nesses ruined, schools destroyed, roads
necessary to bring medical supplies
into villages gone. I know firsthand. I
know as a lifelong Vermonter that in
these moments the Federal Govern-
ment is a critical partner in the effort
to recover and rebuild.
It is the same in other States—North
Carolina, South Carolina, Florida,
Texas, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the U.S.
Virgin Islands. They are all counting
on us to get this bill across the finish
line.
That is why, 3 weeks ago, I put a
compromise on the table to create a
path forward. I did it in my capacity as
chairman of the Appropriations Com-
mittee. It was a reasonable proposal. It
does not restore everything that had
been eliminated from the House bill,
but it was a compromise that focused
on the most critical proposals and the
immediate needs. Had Senate Repub-
licans accepted this proposal, we likely
would have seen quick passage of a dis-
aster bill in a bipartisan fashion in
both the Senate and the House. It actu-
ally would have eliminated the need
for a conference and would have gotten
the assistance to the people who need
it sooner rather than later.
Unfortunately, it appears the Presi-
dent will not accept even this reason-
able offer. It makes me think about
when he closed down the government
for over 1 month because the Congress
gave him only $1.6 billion for a wall,
and then he reopened the government
when we gave him $1.3 billion. I don’t
know if they actually read the pro-
posals and bills that we sent.
In this case, I think it is obvious
what is happening. The President is
willing to endanger the entire disaster
package for all of the United States be-
cause he wants to pick winners and los-
ers. When there is a disaster, there are
no winners and losers. Americans come
together to help everybody. Yet he
wants to say who gets assistance in the
wake of disasters based on his own ar-
bitrary standards and political
grudges. That is unacceptable. Where is
it going to end? Which State will the
President disfavor next? Remember
that just a few months ago, the Presi-
dent, in a tweet, threatened to cut off
aid to California as they were reeling
from some of the worst fires in recent
history. He sent a tweet telling mil-
lions of Americans he doesn’t want to
help. We are an independent branch of
government. We have to have a respon-
sible party in the room, and it should
be Congress.
I think back to when Vermont was
hit by disaster and hurricane flooding.
As I was traveling around the State the
day after, surveying the damage, I was
receiving emails from a number of Sen-
ators, Republicans and Democrats, say-
ing: Vermont stood with us when we
had a disaster; we will stand with you
today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.002 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2020 March 27, 2019
That is what I want to do. I want to
help, just as I voted to help Louisiana
six times and Mississippi for their dam-
age. It wasn’t for a political benefit for
Vermont, but it was because we are
Americans and we all stand together.
To think that we might consider a
disaster package that picks and choos-
es which Americans are helped when
they have all suffered equally from dis-
asters, and to say: OK, you, American,
we favor you, you get money. You,
American, I don’t like you. So you are
not going to get money. That is not the
American way. That is not the way the
Senate should be.
Let’s pass a bill that addresses the
needs of all communities impacted by
disaster and do it now. People are wait-
ing. The needs are pressing.
I will file an amendment today with
my recommended compromise. It pro-
vides a reasonable path forward—one
that allows us to move quickly to get
assistance to the people who need it
now. I hope all Members will support
it.
The Governor of Puerto Rico made a
strong statement this morning.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the RECORD a
statement by Puerto Rico Governor Ri-
cardo Rossello.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
STATEMENT BY PUERTO RICO GOVERNOR
RICARDO ROSSELLÓ
(March 26, 2019)
SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO.—‘‘The comments
attributed to Donald Trump today by sen-
ators from his own party are below the dig-
nity of a sitting President of the United
States. They continue to lack empathy, are
irresponsible, regrettable and, above all, un-
justified.
‘‘I want to be very clear: Not a single fed-
eral dollar has been used to make debt pay-
ments. This has been the most transparent
recovery in the history of the United States,
providing unprecedented access and collabo-
ration with federal agencies. In fact, just
yesterday we reached an agreement with
FEMA on the transition of responsibilities
for the reimbursement of recovery funds. An
agreement predicated on the acknowledg-
ment by the federal government that appro-
priate fiscal controls are in fact established.
‘‘I can only assume that Trump is receiv-
ing misleading information from his own
staff. I have now made several requests to
meet with the President to discuss Puerto
Rico’s recovery and reconstruction, but up
to this day we haven’t received a confirma-
tion or a date, even though Trump told me
we would meet after his visit to Vietnam
earlier this year.
‘‘I invite the President to stop listening to
ignorant and completely wrong advice. In-
stead he should come to Puerto Rico to hear
firsthand from the people on the ground. I
invite him to put all of the resources at his
disposal to help Americans in Puerto Rico,
like he did for Texas and Alabama. No more,
no less.
‘‘Of course, today the world knows the un-
pleasant truth that Puerto Rico is a colonial
territory of the United States and are well
aware of the democratic deficiencies we en-
dure: We are not allowed to vote for our
President nor have voting representation in
Congress. Even as we have asked democrat-
ically for statehood twice in the past seven
years, the federal government has delayed
their responsibility to act.
People from all over the nation, and the
world, have witnessed the inequalities Amer-
icans face on the island. The federal response
and its treatment during these past months
in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria is clear
evidence of our second-class citizenship.
‘‘Mr. President: Enough with the insults
and demeaning mischaracterizations. We are
not your political adversaries; we are your
citizens.
‘‘We are not asking for anything more than
any other U.S. state has received. We are
merely asking for equality.’’
Mr. LEAHY. The Americans in Puer-
to Rico do not have representation in
this body. Vermont is probably as far
away from Puerto Rico as just about
any State, with the exception of Alas-
ka and Hawaii. They do not have any-
body to speak directly on their behalf
on such an important matter. The Gov-
ernor has spoken out. I urge every
Member to read what the Governor has
to say. I agree with him. Americans in
Puerto Rico should be helped just as
Americans in Texas, Americans in
Oklahoma, Americans in California, or
Americans in New York, or wherever
disaster has struck. We are the United
States of America. Let’s start acting
like that on behalf of all Americans,
not on behalf of political biases.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
rise today to join again my colleagues
to speak of the need for bipartisan ac-
tion to address climate warming.
Throughout the past year, we have
received warning after warning about
the warming and about the devastating
consequences of climate change that
are coming much sooner than some
people actually expected.
I remember when I first got to the
Senate. I was part of the Environment
Committee, and we had military lead-
ers come to speak. We had scientists,
and they basically predicted every-
thing that we have seen coming, from
the wildfires in the West to the rising
ocean levels, to weird weather events
like more tornadoes, to the type of
flooding that we are seeing in the Mid-
west as we speak and the type of flood-
ing we have seen in Florida as a result
of hurricanes.
They also talked about the economic
consequences of this. I think it is real-
ly important that people don’t see this
as environment versus economics. If we
do nothing, the economics are bad. If
we do nothing, we are going to con-
tinue to see homeowners’ insurance in-
crease, like we have nationwide—a 50-
percent increase in the last 10 years.
If we do something and we do it right
and we do it smartly, we are going to
see a bunch of new jobs in the field of
green energy. We are going to see more
solar. We are going to see more wind.
We are going to see a whole new indus-
try of an electric grid and things that
we need to do to bring down green-
house gases and be a leader once again
in energy for the world.
Last October, the United Nations
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change issued a special report explain-
ing the potential impact of climate
change if the Earth warms 1.5 degrees
Celsius above historic global tempera-
ture levels dating back to before the
Industrial Revolution started. That re-
port predicted that in just over 20
years, we could see even more of what
we have seen this last year: persistent
drought, food shortages, worsening
wildfires, and increased flooding—dam-
age that could cost an estimated $54
trillion.
Then, in November, the ‘‘Fourth Na-
tional Climate Assessment’’ issued a
special report that concluded that
without significant global efforts to re-
duce greenhouse gas emissions, climate
change will threaten the health and
safety of people, will slow economic
growth, will damage our Nation’s infra-
structure, which we are seeing right
now in the Midwest, and will impede
the production of energy and food.
Finally, in January of this year, the
U.S. Department of Defense released a
report on the effects of a changing cli-
mate to U.S. military installations and
their operational viability. All of these
experts—yes, scientists, and, yes, mili-
tary leaders—have made it clear that
inaction is not an option for our econ-
omy, for our environment, for our
country, or for our world.
Military and security experts have
repeatedly reminded us that climate
change is a threat to our national secu-
rity. Look at the examples of refugees
coming up from Africa—people who
used to be subsistence farmers who no
longer can make their livings. They
used to eek by, which was not easy, but
now they are moving up; they are mov-
ing to Europe. That is just one example
of what we are seeing.
I am from a State of refugees. Our
refugees are a major part of our econ-
omy, but we know we want to have a
sensible refugee policy and that we
can’t have sudden droves of people
moving up because of environmental
catastrophes that are going on in their
countries. Yet we are going to see more
and more and more of that. At some
point, we have to realize, you know
what, we want thriving economies in
Africa; we want thriving economies
throughout the world; and climate
change is going to be an impediment to
that.
If you want to close your eyes to the
rest of the world and pretend it is not
happening, it is going to come knock-
ing at your door. It is what is going to
keep happening if we don’t do some-
thing about climate change. There will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.014 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2021
March 27, 2019
be more severe weather—heat waves
that could reduce our water supply, ex-
treme rainfall that could damage crit-
ical infrastructure, a decrease in agri-
cultural productivity that could
threaten, in my State alone, a $20 bil-
lion ag industry, which ranks fifth in
the Nation. We cannot close our eyes
to climate change because it is hap-
pening right now around us.
That is why it is all the more dis-
appointing that the Senate has failed
to seriously consider legislation that
would address climate change. I have
been here for these close calls. When I
first came to the Senate, we were so
close to getting a renewable electricity
standard put in place nationwide. I had
a bill that would have done that. It
would have been combined with the re-
newable fuel standard, and I think it
would have been a good way to have
brought people in from both parties,
from both sides of the aisle, and from
all parts of the country. I remember
standing in the back of this Chamber
with Senator CANTWELL, bemoaning
the fact that we were just one vote
short of getting it done. That was over
a decade ago.
Meanwhile, yes, States are taking ac-
tion. With our having a Republican
Governor at the time, Tim Pawlenty,
my State was able to get a renewable
electricity standard put in place—
something like 20 to 25 percent by
2025—and we are making that. We
wouldn’t have made it if we had not set
a goal, which, at that time, seemed
bold, and we did it on a bipartisan
basis—with Democrats, Republicans,
and the legislature. We combined it po-
litically with a renewable fuel standard
so it would get some of our farmers and
other people on board. We had two pro-
visions in there—a strong renewable
electricity standard and a strong re-
newable fuel standard, with a Repub-
lican Governor leading the way. Why?
We could see ahead. We could see the
effect climate change would have on
our outdoor economy. We could see the
effect it would have on hunting and
fishing and recreation in our State.
Here is what happened. We barely
missed doing something on the renew-
able electricity standard. Then Presi-
dent Obama got elected, and we were in
the middle of a downturn. I had actu-
ally hoped we would have moved on re-
newable electricity, but the decision
was made to go with cap and trade. I
supported cap and trade. In the end, de-
spite its passing in the House, we
couldn’t get the votes in the Senate, in
part, because we were in the middle of
a downturn.
Since then, we have done a few
things on energy efficiency, which have
been good, that Secretary Chu called
the low-hanging fruit. We have done
some things in the farm bill with con-
servation, with the sodsaver provision
that I have with Senator THUNE, but we
haven’t done anything that signifi-
cantly makes a difference.
Instead, the administration has
taken us out of the international cli-
mate change agreement, which means
we are the only country in the world
that isn’t in it. When the President
first made his announcement, Syria
and Nicaragua were not in it. Now they
are. This is not what leadership is
when we are the only country that is
not part of this agreement. No, that is
not what leadership is, and it certainly
impedes our doing business around the
world when it comes to green energy.
Other countries can go in there and
ask: Why are you going to do business
with this country? It is the only one
that hasn’t signed on to the inter-
national climate change agreement?
That happens. I have heard from
businesspeople. That happens. That is
one thing that happens.
When it came to greenhouse gases,
the standards we had in place at the
EPA were a compromise that had been
worked on over years. It is now on the
cutting room floor because this admin-
istration went backward.
The gas mileage standard is some-
thing else we could do. Again, we went
backward. Instead of working on these
things—coming up with more com-
prehensive legislation—unfortunately,
our colleagues on the other side of the
aisle decided, yesterday, to play poli-
tics by bringing up the Green New Deal
resolution with the explicit intention
of trying to create a divide by voting it
down.
Do you know what? The resolution,
as I have said, is aspirational. It sets
out some audacious goals. We know we
can’t meet everything that is in that
resolution in 10 years. Yet what has it
done that I think is so good? It has re-
ignited the debate on how the United
States can lead the way in addressing
global climate change while building a
clean energy future that benefits
American businesses, factories, and
workers.
We are a country that sets audacious
goals. We put a man on the Moon,
right? We won World War II. We are a
country that sets audacious goals.
Sometimes it takes us longer to meet
them, which is OK. If we see a problem,
we don’t just put our heads down. We
look ahead; we look at each other; and
we figure out how we are going to meet
the challenge. That is what we have to
do with climate change.
At the same time that our Repub-
lican colleagues brought up the Green
New Deal resolution for a vote, they
declined to consider the resolution that
was offered by Senator CARPER that
simply says climate change is real,
that human activity during the last
century has been the dominant cause
of the climate crisis, and that the
United States and Congress should
take immediate action to address the
challenges of climate change.
The challenges we face are too great
to waste time on show votes and polit-
ical stunts. For years, we have heard of
the things we can do to make a dif-
ference. There is not one approach; it is
an ‘‘all of the above’’ approach. We
know—and I have seen the models—
what we can do to start bringing the
temperature down to an international
goal, by the way, of 3.6 degrees Fahr-
enheit. That is a lot, but our wanting
to stay under that amount is actually
a realistic goal right now.
Instead of spending time debating
these kinds of show resolutions, we
should be taking real action to combat
climate change. We need a comprehen-
sive approach that will reduce green-
house gas emissions and promote en-
ergy-efficient technologies and home-
grown energy resources. That is what
we should do. When Senator MCCON-
NELL brought up what was an aspira-
tional resolution to bring people to-
gether, he did it as a show to divide
people. That is not what we want to do
here. We have people from all over the
country who have some different views
on this, and we should be coming to-
gether to figure out solutions. As I
noted, I believe we must reinstate the
Clean Power Plan rules and the gas
mileage standards that the administra-
tion has reversed, which has rolled
back the progress we have made.
I also want to talk today about my
home State’s work on these issues.
I am proud Minnesota has taken a
proactive and innovative approach to
energy use and sustainability, which is
critical to addressing carbon emissions
and climate change. As I noted, that
25-percent electricity standard would
be met and is going to be met by 2025.
This bipartisan bill was signed into law
by Governor Pawlenty in 2007, and it
passed the House back then.
By the way, that was 2007, right?
Since then, everything we have learned
has reinforced what we know, which is
that climate change is happening. Back
in 2007, we had not seen this big push
against doing something about it. We
had not seen all of the dark money
that went in to take care of not doing
something about it and to back up this
inertia we are seeing. Yet, somehow,
back in 2007, in my State, I guess we
got it through—we got around some of
this—because that legislation that was
signed by a Republican Governor re-
ceived overwhelmingly bipartisan sup-
port. It passed the Minnesota House by
a vote of 123 to 10 and passed the Min-
nesota Senate by 63 to 3.
Earlier this month, our new Gov-
ernor, Governor Walz, announced a pro-
posal that would build on that earlier
work by setting a goal of generating
100 percent of the State’s energy from
clean sources by 2050. We have also
seen other Governors doing this across
the country. I think that is great. Jus-
tice Brandeis once said that the States
are laboratories of democracy, which is
a good thing. We can’t just sit there
and expect States, on an individual
basis, to change the national dialogue.
Some of these things have to be done
by us in this Chamber in Washington,
DC.
Once we set those goals, which start-
ed with the Republican Governor of
Minnesota and then moved on to two
Democratic Governors, what we saw
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.016 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2022 March 27, 2019
was Xcel Energy—Minnesota’s largest
utility—as being the earliest supporter
of the last administration’s Clean
Power Plan. This is an electric util-
ity—the biggest one in our State—that
recently announced plans to deliver
100-percent carbon-free electricity to
its customers by 2050. As part of that
pledge, it plans to reduce carbon emis-
sions by 80 percent by 2030 in the eight
States it serves. It is an electric com-
pany—a power utility—that has real-
ized this is in its best long-term inter-
est and that it is certainly in the best
long-term interest of its customers.
If energy utilities like Xcel under-
stand the need to reduce our use of fos-
sil fuels and to embrace setting ambi-
tious goals that will eventually get us
to 100-percent clean renewable energy,
then so should we and so should the ad-
ministration.
We know energy innovation can’t
really take root—not in any kind of se-
rious way—without there being cer-
tainty, stability, and a clear path for-
ward. Yes, some of that can happen in
the States, and that is exciting. It can
happen in our businesses and in busi-
nesses in Minnesota, like Cargill—the
biggest private company in the coun-
try—that looks at the world and sees
what is going to happen to its investors
and its employees if we don’t do some-
thing about climate change. It has
joined in an effort with major busi-
nesses to take this on. So, yes, States
are doing things, and Governors are
doing things.
Yes, electric utilities are doing
things. Some of our small electric util-
ities in Minnesota have actually start-
ed creating incentives for solar panels.
One of the most innovative ones will
give its customers—this is a very small
town in a small county—large water
heaters that cost about $1,000 if, in ex-
change, they will get solar panels.
Senator HOEVEN and I worked on a
bill to make sure people in this Cham-
ber understood that these large water
heaters were really helpful in the base-
ments of farmhouses and that they
were actually more energy efficient.
Then this utility—a little electric co-
op—took a step forward and actually
offered a free water heater in exchange
for buying a long-term interest in a
solar panel. It is not as easy when you
are a small electric co-op. I have a ton
of them in my State, and I have
worked with them extensively, but
they, too, are starting to see the future
and are starting to do their part.
In my State, we have big businesses
like Cargill, big electric utilities like
Xcel, and little electric co-ops. We
have our Governors. We have busi-
nesses that are not in the electric busi-
ness but that see what is happening to
their customers around the world. We
have universities, nonprofits, churches,
synagogues, and mosques that want to
retrofit and make their places of wor-
ship more energy efficient, which is an-
other bill I have with Senator HOEVEN.
When all of this is going on, how can
we just sit here and do nothing and in-
stead have negative show votes for no
reason at all? We are going to keep
talking about this and not let it go be-
cause what we need is action.
We need policies that encourage re-
duction in greenhouse gasses. We must
leave our children with a world that is
as good as the one we got.
There is an old Ojibwe saying—we
have a lot of proud Indian Tribes in
Minnesota—that says: You make deci-
sions not for now but for seven genera-
tions from now.
You know what. That is our duty.
But guess what. With climate change,
it is no longer just seven generations
now; it is for the pages who are sitting
right here, because this is happening
right now. The predictions are dire.
I was in Florida just a few weeks ago,
and they predict that in a decade, 1 out
of 10 of their homes is going to be
flooded in their State—1 out of 10 of
their homes.
You see what is happening in Nor-
folk, VA. You look at these pages and
you think: This is not just seven gen-
erations from now; this is 7 years from
now or 70 years from now. That is what
we are dealing with. It is upon us. So it
is our duty, our constitutional duty as
elected representatives, to do our job.
It is our moral duty to do the right
thing for this country. So let’s get to
work and get this done.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
NOMINATIONS
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
come to the floor to correct the record
concerning statements the President
reportedly made yesterday afternoon
when he met with Senate Republicans.
Apparently, in between his efforts to
stiff hurricane victims in Puerto Rico
and tear affordable healthcare away
from millions of Americans, the Presi-
dent claimed that Democrats were
holding up ambassadorial nominations
in the Senate. Just weeks ago, we
heard similar comments from the Sen-
ate majority leader, who claimed that
GEN John Abizaid’s nomination to be
Ambassador to Saudi Arabia was
‘‘being held up.’’
Let me be clear. No one wants to see
the State Department vested with all
the resources it needs to effectively
conduct American foreign policy, in-
cluding qualified and capable staff,
more than I do. We cannot promote our
foreign policy, protect American citi-
zens, advocate for American busi-
nesses, or advance American values
without a robust diplomatic core.
I want all of my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to know that each
time the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee has received nominations, I
have dedicated my time and staff re-
sources to efficiently and diligently vet
and advance these nominations. In the
last Congress, the committee reported
169 nominations. So I reject the asser-
tion that we have not done our part to
ensure that the State Department is
appropriately staffed.
Now let me speak to General Abizaid
because no one can honestly claim that
the Foreign Relations Committee has
been anything but extremely diligent
and expeditious with this nomination.
With my full support, General
Abizaid appeared in the very first com-
mittee nominations hearing of this
Congress, and I very much look for-
ward to voting in favor of his nomina-
tion as soon as our chairman—our Re-
publican chairman—exercises his pre-
rogative and puts him before the com-
mittee for a vote.
As with all nominees, the timing of
his consideration by the full Senate is
under the control of the majority lead-
er.
It is clear that President Trump has
an inaccurate or dishonest view of the
nominations situation in the Senate
and particularly in the Foreign Rela-
tions Committee.
We cannot confirm diplomats we do
not have. All too often, the committee
has received nominations late or not at
all. The Trump administration took
nearly 2 years before it even bothered
to nominate General Abizaid, leaving a
gaping hole in our diplomatic posture
to Saudi Arabia and the region.
To go nearly 2 years without putting
forward a nominee is a failure of lead-
ership, pure and simple. Saudi Arabia’s
actions over the past 2 years highlight
the fact that we need an adult on the
ground, which is why I wholeheartedly
support General Abizaid and look for-
ward to what I hope is his speedy con-
firmation.
Sadly, Saudi Arabia is not an iso-
lated example. It took even longer—
more than 2 years—for the Trump ad-
ministration to nominate a candidate
to be U.S. Ambassador to Turkey. As-
tonishingly enough, it was only this
week that the President sent up an am-
bassadorial nominee for Mexico. We are
now 26 months into the Trump admin-
istration, and we still lack ambassa-
dorial nominees to critical countries
such as Egypt, Pakistan, and our close
ally, Jordan.
Let’s be clear. This is the President’s
reckless abdication of a constitutional
responsibility essential to projecting
American power abroad. When you
don’t nominate someone, President
Trump has only himself to blame.
Furthermore, there is unfortunately
another severe problem that we cannot
ignore with regard to the administra-
tion’s nominees. When the Trump ad-
ministration repeatedly fails to appro-
priately vet political nominations,
Congress must exercise appropriate
oversight. The President has nomi-
nated and renominated individuals
with restraining orders for threats of
violence; people who made material
omissions, sometimes on a repeated
basis, in their nomination materials;
people who tweeted and retweeted vile
things about Senators and their fami-
lies and who have engaged in incidents
that should, frankly, mean they should
never have been nominated.
One nominee attacked my late col-
league and good friend Senator John
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.017 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2023
March 27, 2019
McCain, claiming that John McCain,
an American hero, was rolling ‘‘out the
welcome mat for ISIS on America’s
southern border.’’ But unfortunately
we know that attacking McCain does
not cross any redlines for this Presi-
dent.
Another nominee has claimed, with
no evidence, that Senator CRUZ’s wife
is part of a sinister cabal seeking to
combine the Governments of Canada,
Mexico, and the United States. This
nominee called Hillary Clinton a ‘‘ter-
rorist with amnesia’’ and retweeted
someone calling Senator ROMNEY a
‘‘dumbass.’’
You can’t make this stuff up.
Senator SASSE’s office said that
nominee should ‘‘put on his tinfoil hat
and visit our office with evidence for
his salacious conspiracy theories and
cuckoo allegations’’ and went on to ob-
serve that ‘‘People who want to serve
Americans as our diplomats and
spokespersons abroad should know that
words and truth matter, even during
campaigns. Cynics and nuts are prob-
ably going to have a hard time secur-
ing Senate confirmation.’’ I couldn’t
agree with him more.
Yet the President thought highly
enough of this individual and lowly
enough of the U.S. Senate that he nom-
inated him for an ambassadorship in
two successive Congresses.
Another ambassadorial nominee was
the subject of a temporary restraining
order after she left a bullet-ridden tar-
get practice sheet on her doctor’s
chair.
Again, you cannot make this up.
As for being unresponsive to com-
mittee requirements for all nominees, I
can understand that nominees may ac-
cidentally leave off a few businesses
they were involved in, but we had one
nominee who failed to inform the com-
mittee of dozens of businesses and an-
other nominee who, even more egre-
giously, failed to mention multiple
lawsuits he was involved in, including
one in which he was alleged to have
fired a female employee who com-
plained of sexual harassment. Given
the nature and frequency of these
omissions, it is hard to believe they
were unintentional.
So when the White House, either
through negligence or incompetence,
sends us unvetted, unqualified nomi-
nees—incapable and oftentimes offen-
sive—my staff and I exercise due dili-
gence on behalf of the American peo-
ple.
To make this crystal clear, the Presi-
dent can speed up this process. All he
has to do is start nominating Ameri-
cans with appropriate credentials and
honorable conduct in their careers. It
is not rocket science.
The United States and our allies con-
tinue to face tremendous challenges
around the world. We must continue to
lead on the international stage and
work in collaboration with inter-
national partners to achieve our shared
security goals. But to have our dip-
lomats in place, they must be nomi-
nated in a timely fashion and vetted
properly. That is what the real holdup
here is—not Senate Democrats. And I
refuse to let the President point the
finger at us when he should be pointing
the finger at himself.
I yield the floor.
(Mr. SCOTT of Florida assumed the
Chair.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). The Senate democratic whip.
S. 874
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I come
to the floor today to speak about the
Dream Act, a bipartisan piece of legis-
lation that would give immigrant stu-
dents who grew up in the United States
a chance to earn their citizenship. This
is not a new topic. It was 19 years ago
that I introduced the Dream Act. It
hasn’t become law yet, but it has in-
spired a movement of thousands of
young people across this country.
Back in the day when I introduced
this bill and talked about the Dream-
ers, people thought you were talking
about a British rock group. In this
case, the Dreamers happened to be a
group of people living in America who
were desperately trying to become part
of America’s future. They came to the
United States as children, infants, tod-
dlers, and kids. They are American in
every way except for a piece of paper
on their immigration status. They
have gone to our schools. They sit next
to us in church. They are the kids
whom you see on the playground with
your own kids, but they are undocu-
mented. Because they are undocu-
mented, they are subject to deporta-
tion at any moment in their lives.
They end up going to school, but it is
tougher for them. They don’t qualify
for Pell grants or Federal loans. They
have to find a way to save the money
or find a way to secure a scholarship
that just might be available to them,
but it is rare. Most of the time it
means a longer period of time in col-
lege before they can finish, as they
save up the money. Ultimately, they
are trained to become our teachers, our
nurses, our doctors, our engineers, and
even our soldiers.
Yesterday I reintroduced the Dream
Act. My cosponsor is Senator LINDSEY
GRAHAM, a Republican from South
Carolina and chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee. I want to thank
LINDSEY GRAHAM for joining me in this
bipartisan effort. Bipartisanship is rare
in this Chamber, and on an issue of
controversy, it is even rarer.
Senator GRAHAM and I have a long
history of working together because we
believe that Congress has an obligation
to do the job we were elected to do and
pass legislation that solves problems.
Senator GRAHAM and I were partners in
the Gang of 8—four Democratic Sen-
ators and four Republican Senators.
That was the gang with the great John
McCain, CHUCK SCHUMER, MARCO
RUBIO, LINDSEY GRAHAM, Jeff Flake,
BOB MENENDEZ, and MICHAEL BENNET.
We wrote a comprehensive immigra-
tion reform bill a few years back in
2013. We brought it to the floor of the
Senate. We covered virtually every as-
pect of immigration law. Believe me,
immigration law is a mess, and it need-
ed that kind of comprehensive ap-
proach. We brought it up to a vote on
the floor, and the vote was 68 to 32. It
was a bipartisan vote. After months of
working on this bill, we couldn’t have
been happier. We finally had a bipar-
tisan bill to address the immigration
challenge in America.
The bill left here and went to the
House of Representatives under a Re-
publican leadership, and it died. They
wouldn’t even consider it, wouldn’t de-
bate it, and, certainly, wouldn’t vote
on it. Look at the mess we have today
in the United States because of our im-
migration laws, and consider the possi-
bility that 6 years ago we had finally
found a path that could lead us to a bi-
partisan solution. That path is still
there.
Part of that immigration law was the
Dream Act, which we are reintro-
ducing. In 2010 I joined with Republican
Senator Dick Lugar of Indiana. We
called on President Obama to use his
authority as President to protect these
Dreamers from deportation. In other
words, if we couldn’t pass the law,
could the President do something to
help protect them?
President Barack Obama responded.
He created a program called the De-
ferred Action for Childhood Arrivals
Program, known as DACA. Here is
what DACA said: We will give you, 2
years at a time, temporary legal status
to stay in the United States and not be
deported and be able to work in this
country. If you want the temporary
status that is renewable every 2 years,
you have to report to the government,
go through a comprehensive back-
ground investigation, pay a fee, and,
then, we will give you a chance to stay
here, go to school and work, and not be
afraid of that knock on the door.
More than 800,000 Dreamers stepped
forward. They came forward in an ex-
traordinary way. I can remember the
first day when then-Congressman Luis
Gutierrez and I decided at Navy Pier in
Chicago, which is a huge gathering
place, that we would have a sit-down
for these young people so they could
fill out the forms and apply for DACA
status. Initially, we thought we were
going to have 1,000. We didn’t know
what we would do with it. Then, there
were 2,000, and then 3,000, and it turned
out that families literally stood in line
all night long for the chance to come
across that threshold to sit down with
a volunteer and fill out their form for
DACA status. Mothers and fathers were
in tears with their kids thinking: At
least my son or my daughter will have
a chance not to be deported and to be
part of America. More than 800,000 of
these Dreamers came forward, and they
received DACA protection because of
President Obama’s Executive order.
Forty-three thousand were in my State
of Illinois.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.019 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2024 March 27, 2019
DACA has unleashed the full poten-
tial of these Dreamers, who are con-
tributing to our country in so many
ways—teachers, soldiers, engineers,
and small business owners.
Then came the day with a new Presi-
dent—President Donald Trump. On
September 5, 2017, President Trump an-
nounced that he would repeal DACA
and the protections that it gave to
these people. Hundreds of thousands of
Dreamers faced losing their work per-
mits and, even worse, being deported
from the only country they had ever
known and being sent back to places
they couldn’t even remember.
When President Trump announced
the repeal of DACA, he called on Con-
gress to legalize DACA. Since then,
President Trump has rejected every
single bipartisan deal we offered him
on the subject. I am not giving up on
the Dream Act, and I am not giving up
on the Dreamers. You would think that
after all these years and all these
young people, people would be coming
to the floor who are against the Dream
Act and against DACA, telling horrible
stories about the young people who we
are talking about today. Strangely,
that has never happened. I am sure
there is going to be somebody to dis-
appoint me. That is human nature.
Overwhelmingly, these young people
are just nothing short of amazing.
I have come to the floor of the Sen-
ate more than 100 times to tell their
stories because I think that is the best
way for you to understand why this
issue is so important.
This is an amazing young woman.
Her name is Karla Robles. Karla Robles
is the 116th Dreamer whose story I
have told on the floor of the Senate.
She was brought to the United States
from Mexico when she was 8 years old.
She grew up in Chicago, where her
mom and dad worked long hours in a
pizza restaurant. Karla’s parents told
her and her brothers and sisters: No
matter what happens, make sure to
stay out of trouble and study really
hard. It will all pay off one day.
That is exactly what Karla did. When
Karla started school in the third grade,
she didn’t speak English, but she
worked hard and quickly became an ex-
cellent student. Karla wrote me a let-
ter and she said: ‘‘Education has been
an important part of my life and the
teachers who took the time to guide
my family and me are a big reason I
want to go into this field.’’
In the seventh grade, Karla received
the American Legion Award—this un-
documented young girl—which was
given to one boy and one girl in the
class who ‘‘are deemed most worthy of
the high qualities of citizenship and of
true Americanism.’’
In high school, Karla Robles was a
member of the National Honor Society
and the President’s Club, and she was
active in student government.
She participated in a program called
TRUST, where she agreed to volunteer
her personal time to mentor younger
students. She was captain and MVP of
the varsity tennis team. She received
her associate’s degree from Harper Col-
lege. She is now a senior at Loyola
University in Chicago.
Here is a special word about Loyola
University in Chicago. This is an amaz-
ing campus that is doing its best to
give people just like Karla a chance in
life. They have created something
called Arrupe College, which is a low
cost approach to higher education for
some of the poorest families in Chi-
cago, and they don’t exclude kids who
are protected by DACA or are Dream-
ers. The Loyola medical school is one
of the few in the United States with
open competition where DACA stu-
dents can apply. There are 32 medical
students at Loyola in Chicago who are
undocumented. They are DACA Dream-
ers. They desperately want to be part
of America. Part of the agreement is if
they go to medical school at Loyola
and borrow money to do it, they have
to pay back a year of service in an un-
derserved area in the State of Illinois
for the money that they are receiving
to go to school.
Back to Karla.
During college, she was on the Na-
tional Honor Roll and the Dean’s List.
She also volunteers with an outreach
program for at-risk kids and with
AmeriCorps VISTA, and she founded a
tutoring program for elementary
school students.
I know Karla a little better than I
know some of the Dreamers because
she interned here in my Washington,
DC, office last year. What does she
want to do at the end of this journey if
she can stay in America? She wants to
be a teacher in the Chicago Public
Schools. She wants to pursue her mas-
ter’s degree and become a high school
guidance counselor.
There are some people who look at
this picture and say: This is not an
American citizen. Tell her to leave. I
look at this picture and think that we
are lucky to have her, that this Nation
of immigrants is lucky to have this
young woman who simply wants to
give back to America. That is all she is
asking for—nothing special—just to let
her give back to this country.
So we have reintroduced the Dream
Act. I hope my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle will come forward and join
me and Senator LINDSEY GRAHAM, my
Republican cosponsor.
We think there are about 1.8 million
young people who are eligible for the
Dream Act in the United States. They
have never known another country. In
the mornings, when they walk into the
classrooms in their schools, they stand
up and put their hands on their chests
and pledge allegiance to the only flag
they have ever known. They were just
kids when they were brought here.
Shouldn’t we do the right thing in
America—this Nation of immigrants,
this country of opportunity, this bright
city on the hill, this shining city on
the hill?
Yes, we should.
For the Dreamers and for their moms
and dads, we have to renew our com-
mitment that the next generation of
Americans who will come from all over
the world will continue to make this
one of the finest countries on Earth.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Iowa.
WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTH
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, we rise to
celebrate Women’s History Month.
This month is, of course, very per-
sonal to me as a woman, a daughter,
and a mother. One of the sayings I love
is: ‘‘Well-behaved women seldom make
history.’’ This is so true. I want to re-
flect on a few of these fearless fe-
males—trailblazers—who have made
history and who have shaped our fu-
ture.
These are women like suffrage leader
Carrie Chapman Catt. She founded the
League of Women Voters in 1920, which
was 2 years after she helped women
gain the right to vote. Catt relocated
to Iowa when she was 7 years old, and
she graduated from what is now Iowa
State University, my alma mater. She
was so committed to the cause of
women that she helped found the Inter-
national Woman Suffrage Alliance to
help spread rights for women all
around our globe.
I fast-forward to today, when one can
see the fruits of her labor. In Iowa, we
just elected our first female Governor—
my friend and a fearless female, Kim
Reynolds. We also gained two new
women lawmakers with the election of
ABBY FINKENAUER and CINDY AXNE and
a record number of women in the Iowa
State House, led by Speaker of the
House Linda Upmeyer. In Congress, we
have a record number of women who
serve in the U.S. House and 25 who
serve in the U.S. Senate. While we
come from differing backgrounds and
political stripes, I admire these women
for jumping into the arena.
I also reflect on a woman named
Deborah Sampson. Sampson is credited
as the first woman to serve in the U.S.
Army. This hero, who couldn’t serve
openly as a female, disguised herself as
a male and joined the Continental
Army in 1781. She led forces on a mis-
sion that helped to capture 15 enemy
soldiers. She served as a scout, dug
trenches, and endured battle wounds.
She even extracted a pistol ball from
her own leg so no one would know she
was a female.
Fast-forward to today, when thou-
sands of women are serving in the mili-
tary and are taking on bigger and
badder roles. They are all brave, fierce,
and honorable. They are modern-day
Deborah Sampsons.
I think of the wonderful women with
whom I served in the Army and of all
of those whom I commanded—my won-
derful mechanics, my truckdrivers, my
admin specialists. I think of my daugh-
ter, who is a cadet at West Point, as
well as Air Force Secretary Heather
Wilson, and so many other women who
serve in Active Duty, as reservists, and
as National Guardsmen. They all serve
our great Nation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.021 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2025
March 27, 2019
Finally, I reflect on Gertrude Dieken.
Dieken was from Grundy County, IA.
She was an editor and the first woman
vice president of the Farm Journal—a
renowned magazine that is dedicated to
farming. Savvy in business, economics,
and journalism, Dieken established a
book publishing division and became
the first female member of its board of
directors.
Iowa women are today exercising
their girl power, making it happen on
the shop floor, in the boardroom, on
the farm, and in every occupation in
between. Iowa is now ranked eighth for
growth in the number of women-owned
businesses.
As part of my 99 County Tour, I have
met many of these phenomenal women
and have heard their stories and
dreams for their futures. I am contin-
ually inspired by these fearless females
and the thousands of other women like
them who have paved the path forward
and broken—shattered—that glass ceil-
ing. They are changing lives and are
helping our economy and our commu-
nities grow.
We know it isn’t always easy today
to be a fearless female, just as it was
not easy for the trailblazing women of
the past. We must continue to take on
the challenges that confront women
from all walks of life—harassment,
abuse, and discrimination. Keeping the
economy strong, along with issues like
childcare access, criminal justice re-
form, healthcare, and paid parental
leave, are areas in which I am working
to move that ball forward.
Melinda Gates often says, ‘‘When
women and girls are empowered to par-
ticipate fully in society, everyone ben-
efits.’’ I believe that to be true.
The future is bright for women
today—in particular, for young
women—because of the sacrifices of
those who have come before us. We
have a common bond as females, sis-
ters, mothers, grandmothers, and
daughters. It is easy to look at these
historical examples as a mere recita-
tion of facts and figures, but I view
them as a challenge—a challenge to all
women to stand strong and reject the
status quo, to achieve greatness, to be
a friend and a mentor, and to prove all
of those doubters wrong. Whether you
are a stay-at-home mom or a woman in
America’s boardrooms or anywhere in
between, you are making a difference.
As Peggy Whitson—famed astronaut
and first female to command the Inter-
national Space Station—once said: ‘‘If
a farmer’s daughter from Iowa can be
an astronaut, you can be just about
anything you want to be.’’
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mrs. CAPITO. Mr. President, it is my
honor to be here with my fellow woman
Senator from the State of Iowa. I enjoy
learning more about Iowa and about
the strength of Iowan women and in
our Nation.
I join my colleague to highlight and
celebrate not only the women leaders
in the Senate but the millions of
women throughout history and across
the country who have made and con-
tinue to make a difference in their
homes, in their communities, and in
society in general.
I am very proud to represent the
State of West Virginia—a State with a
long and rich history of female trail-
blazers. It is a State that respects and
celebrates those women. Maybe you
have heard that phrase ‘‘mountain
mamas.’’ Well, Mother’s Day was actu-
ally originated in West Virginia by
Grafton resident Anna Jarvis in 1908.
President Woodrow Wilson made it an
official national holiday in the year
1914, and it is an annual reminder
today to cherish and thank one of the,
if not the, most influential women in
many people’s lives—their mothers.
I miss my mother every day. I know
my mother, who was the First Lady of
West Virginia, was an incredible role
model for me and an inspiration. See-
ing all she did for our State and for our
fellow West Virginians through her
public service was a driving force
throughout my life. Not only that, she
was a great and loving mother, and as
I said, I still miss her every day.
Another West Virginia woman who
has been an incredible inspiration is
Katherine Johnson. Katherine was born
in White Sulpher Springs, WV, in 1918.
In her being brilliant with numbers,
she attended West Virginia State Col-
lege and was later one of the first
Black students to integrate West Vir-
ginia University’s graduate school in
1939. That is pretty notable in and of
itself, but Katherine didn’t stop there.
In 1953, she took a job at NASA and
began working as a human computer.
She literally calculated how to get
men into space. Remember, with the
launch of the Soviets’ satellite Sputnik
in 1957, the space race was on. America
needed a win, and Katherine Johnson
played a major role in facilitating that
win. Her work put John Glenn into
space and into history. The success of
that mission marked a turning point in
the space race altogether, and it made
a significant impact in the future of
space travel and exploration. Some
may better recognize Katherine’s name
from the movie ‘‘Hidden Figures.’’
I am proud to say that in tribute to
Katherine and her incredible legacy at
NASA, I introduced legislation to re-
name West Virginia’s only NASA facil-
ity after her. President Trump signed
that bill into law last year, and Fair-
mont, WV, is now the home of the
Katherine Johnson Independent Verifi-
cation & Validation Facility. At 100
years young, Katherine still serves as a
tremendous role model to me and to
women everywhere.
Of course, all of our States are home
to brilliant women. My home of West
Virginia is home to numerous amazing
women who have made significant con-
tributions, and we are proud to claim
them all.
I don’t know if one remembers Amer-
ica’s sweetheart of 1984, Olympic gold
medalist Mary Lou Retton, who is a
native of West Virginia; Mother Jones,
who is a champion of the working class
and a labor organizer who campaigned
for the United Mine Workers; Pulitzer
Prize-winning author Pearl S. Buck;
the host of the ‘‘TODAY’’ show, Hoda
Kotb; actress and advocate Jennifer
Garner; and Saira Blair. Many of you
have never heard of Saira Blair. Sev-
eral years ago, at the age of 18, she be-
came the youngest person ever—male
or female—to get elected to a State or
Federal office. She served in the West
Virginia House of Delegates.
These incredible women and so many
others have helped to shape history
and society, and they have paved the
way for the next generation of lead-
ers—girls and young women who might
not yet have realized or achieved their
full potential.
In 2015, I was sworn in as West Vir-
ginia’s first female Senator. This dis-
tinction is a privilege for me, and it is
an honor. It is certainly nothing I take
lightly. I may well be the very first fe-
male Senator from West Virginia, but I
am very confident that I will not be
the last—certainly, not if I can help it.
So, shortly after I came to the Sen-
ate, I started an initiative called West
Virginia Girls Rise Up because I want
to inspire the next generation of lead-
ers. Through that program, I visit fifth
grade girls across the State. We talk
about their dreams, what they can be
when they grow up, and how they can
be the best versions of themselves.
As a matter of fact, the Senator from
Iowa mentioned the astronaut, Peggy
Whitson. She was with me when I did
two Girls Rise Up in West Virginia, and
we talked about three different accom-
plishments that girls can do to reach
their full potential—education, phys-
ical fitness, and self-confidence. I be-
lieve these are the building blocks for a
successful future for whatever you
want to do.
Then we set goals. Maybe it is read-
ing more. Maybe it is eating healthier.
Maybe it is raising your hand more in
class. Most importantly, I challenged
these girls to achieve these goals.
What I hope the girls get out of this
is that you can reach a goal you set for
yourself now—or at least really work
hard to—and you can reach your next
goal when you get older. Then you can
reach your next goal and your next
goal and your next goal, until you find
yourself doing groundbreaking re-
search in a lab, being a CEO of a For-
tune 500 company, designing a sky-
scraper at an architectural firm, or
working to make our country a better
place from the floor of the U.S. Senate
or, I will add, as President of the
United States.
The possibilities are endless, but the
common thread is this: Think about
what it is you want, work hard to
make your dreams a reality, and have
confidence to never back down.
As I travel across West Virginia with
my West Virginia Girls Rise Up Pro-
gram, I am constantly amazed at the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.023 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2026 March 27, 2019
potential of the young women I see. I
know the same is true in States across
this country.
I hope those girls are watching us
here in this Chamber today. I hope
they are hearing the stories of the in-
credible women and trailblazers who
have come before us. I hope they are
thinking to themselves: That could be
me one day.
I am incredibly proud to be a part of
what female leaders are doing right
now, but I am more incredibly opti-
mistic to see what our future female
leaders will do in the years ahead.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I am
pleased to join my colleagues in recog-
nizing Women’s History Month and
celebrating the countless women who
have shaped our Nation and those who
continue to devote their time and en-
ergy to the pursuit of equality here at
home and abroad.
Women have demonstrated incredible
perseverance in the face of adversity.
Their stories of fighting for equal op-
portunity are ingrained in the history
of our country. We wouldn’t be the
great Nation that we are without those
who paved the path for a more prom-
ising future for women.
We honor the individuals whose re-
markable courage and dedication to
challenging the status quo helped ad-
vance women’s rights and those who
followed their dreams while breaking
the glass ceiling.
In 1932, Arkansas elected Hattie Car-
away to the U.S. Senate, which made
her the first woman elected to this
body. She broke barriers, changed
norms, and helped lay the foundation
for the new role women were beginning
to be recognized as deserving to play in
the Senate throughout her legislative
career.
Senator Caraway served nearly 14
years in the Senate, where in 1933 she
was the first woman to chair a Senate
committee and in 1943 became the first
woman to preside officially over the
Senate.
Arkansans are particularly proud
that our legacy in the U.S. Senate in-
cludes electing the first woman to
serve in this Chamber. The path that
Hattie Caraway trailblazed for more
women to enter the ranks of the
world’s greatest deliberative body has,
without a doubt, made the Senate a
better, stronger institution and has
benefited our Nation immensely.
Today, more women are serving in
Congress than ever before. We need to
look no further than Hattie Caraway to
understand the magnitude of her deci-
sion to step forward and serve her
State and country.
More women are also answering the
call to serve our Nation in uniform.
Women are the fastest growing demo-
graphic of veterans, but many Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs facilities
don’t have the ability to provide equi-
table care or services to our women
veterans.
This Congress, Senator TESTER and I
have reintroduced legislation to elimi-
nate barriers to care and services that
many women veterans face. The legis-
lation is appropriately named for Debo-
rah Sampson—the Deborah Sampson
Act—which honors the service and sac-
rifice of the American Revolution hero
who actually disguised herself as a man
in order to serve in the Continental
Army.
We can be proud of Deborah Sampson
and the countless women patriots who
have followed in her footsteps.
We must update VA services to sup-
port the unique needs of our entire vet-
eran population, including the growing
number of women relying on VA for
care.
While opportunities remain to ad-
vance women’s equality, the United
States recently took an important step
to empower women worldwide. Con-
gress approved and President Trump
signed into law the Women’s Entrepre-
neurship and Economic Empowerment
Act. Senator CARDIN and I introduced
the legislation to eliminate global gen-
der-related barriers and empower fe-
male entrepreneurs around the world.
In some parts of the world, women
are pushed so far to the sidelines that
they are denied access to even the most
basic financial services. Cultural and
historical barriers prevent women from
launching a business, building savings,
and supporting economic growth in
their communities. Leveling the play-
ing field will help the world economy
grow substantially.
Providing women access to tools for
economic success supports global pros-
perity. Our country can lead by exam-
ple and help deliver these tools and em-
power women. I look forward to seeing
women succeed because of this legisla-
tive effort.
I am a dad of three daughters and a
grandfather to two little girls. I want
women across the globe to have the
same access to resources and opportu-
nities that my girls have because I
have seen with my own eyes how limit-
less their potential is.
Earlier this year, President Trump
launched the Women’s Global Develop-
ment and Prosperity Initiative to em-
power women around the world to ful-
fill their economic potential. The
Women’s Entrepreneurship and Eco-
nomic Empowerment Act is an essen-
tial piece of this plan to deliver global
results.
Empowering women strengthens fam-
ilies, communities, and our Nation. As
we take this time to reflect on the
challenges women have overcome and
still face, let us continue the momen-
tum started generations ago by hard-
working, courageous, and determined
women who envisioned a country full
of opportunities for success for all.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, the Sen-
ate has unanimously rejected the so-
called Green New Deal. In a display of
political courage for the ages, 43 Demo-
crats voted present, including many of
the bill’s own sponsors.
Now, many of them are running for
President. In fact, these days, it seems
that all of the Democratic Senators are
running for President and perhaps may
realize what a disaster the Green New
Deal is for them.
The Green New Deal would force a
transition in just 10 years—one dec-
ade—to 100 percent green energy, what-
ever that is. But it is an impossible
goal that would require trillions of dol-
lars of taxes and the effective national-
ization of private industry in America.
That is not all—no, not all.
The Green New Deal would also over-
haul or rebuild all existing buildings in
the United States to achieve maximum
energy efficiency—all—every single
home and building in America. I guess
you could call it the ‘‘Extreme Home
Makeover Mandate.’’
The Green New Deal also calls for
taxpayer-funded college and jobs for
every person in the country, even for
illegal aliens and even if you are un-
able or unwilling to work. That is ac-
cording to a press release the Demo-
crats sent out and then tried to send
down the memory hole when it was
justly mocked, and understandably so.
Jobs for everyone who is unable to
work and unwilling to work—there is a
big difference between those two
groups of people.
The radical nature of the Green New
Deal cannot be overstated. The amount
of control it would give to politicians
and planners in Washington would be
the envy of Soviet Russia. Actually, it
would make Stalin blush. And it would
take Stalinist tactics to achieve a
Green New Deal.
To borrow from Churchill, ‘‘Social-
ism may begin with the best of inten-
tions, but it always ends with the Ge-
stapo.’’ Who else is going to come into
your home and make sure that it is en-
ergy compliant? Who else is going to
confiscate your gas-using pickup
truck? Who else is going to ensure that
you don’t commit the terrible crime of
eating a hamburger?
Perhaps we can come up with a bet-
ter name for the Green New Deal—one
that reflects its true lineage. Might I
suggest the Red New Deal, the color of
Communist regimes the world over, or
perhaps the Green Leap Forward in
honor of Mao.
I gather some House freshmen might
actually feel pretty comfortable with
those labels. They claim these radical
ideas are necessary to stop the threat
of climate change—a threat so dire, the
Democrats insist—so dire that we will
all be dead in 12 years—12 years—if we
don’t surrender to totalitarian levels of
power over our lives to central plan-
ners in Washington.
Yet we gave them a chance to vote
on this existential, apocalyptic threat
and they all said: Meh, maybe later.
So this isn’t really about climate
change or even the environment. I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:53 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.025 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2027
March 27, 2019
mean, come on. What do free college
for rich kids and guaranteed jobs for
lazy bums have to do with climate
change?
The answer is: Nothing. And that
tells you all you need to know about
what the Democrats are up to.
The Green New Deal isn’t a real pol-
icy proposal. It is just the Democrats’
most fanciful and frightful dreams
wrapped in one shiny package. I would
call it a policy platform, but that
would probably give it too much credit
for substance.
The President put it very well. He
said the Green New Deal is more like
an undergraduate term paper, one writ-
ten late at night after too many bong
hits, judging from its botched rollout.
If you really feared a climate catas-
trophe, you would do a couple of simple
things. First, you would build as many
new, beautiful, carbon-free nuclear
powerplants as you could. But the
Green New Deal omits nuclear energy
entirely, no doubt to please the Demo-
crats’ crony renewable energy lobby-
ists and the anti-nuclear know-
nothings in the Democrats’ base.
Second, you would get tough on the
world’s biggest polluters, especially on
China. Foreign nations, after all, have
driven almost all of the growth in glob-
al carbon emissions since the turn of
the century.
But the Green New Dealers seem to
believe America is the root of all of the
world’s problems, even though our
emissions have been declining. It is
just another case of the Democrats’
guiding principle: Blame America first.
Of course, if we did something as stu-
pid as pass the Green New Deal, most
foreign nations would just laugh at us
and keep building their economies and
keep polluting while we tanked our
own economy, immiserated our citi-
zens, and lost millions of jobs in pur-
suit of a fantasy.
The Green New Deal would amount
to America’s unilateral disarmament
on the world stage, which for some
Democrats is probably a feature and
not a bug. But sometimes even terrible
ideas deserve a vote. So we gave them
a vote on the Green New Deal, and the
bill’s own sponsors complained.
In any event, the Senate flunked the
Democrats’ term paper unanimously,
and the only reason the Green New
Deal got an F is that there is not a
lower grade. So common sense pre-
vailed this time, although I have a feel-
ing this is not the last time we have
heard of the Green New Deal.
Remember, this is not the hobby
horse of some eccentric socialist fringe
of the Democratic Party—oh, no, not
at all. The Green New Deal has 90
Democratic cosponsors in the House.
That is nearly two out of every five
House Democrats, and the Democratic
Presidential candidates have rushed to
endorse the Green New Deal. Remem-
ber that when you step into the voting
booth in 2020.
But let me wrap up on a more serious
note. I have made a lot of jokes about
the Green New Deal, and, believe me,
the Green New Deal is laughable. But
for many Americans, the Green New
Deal is no laughing matter.
Imagine, if you will, a mom and dad
and a couple young kids outside Little
Rock, let’s say. Every day, they drive
the kids to school. They commute into
the city where they work and back out
to the suburbs, just so they can afford
a home. When they are home on the
weekends, maybe they try to fire up
the grill on the patio to have a little
cookout for the kids.
This working-class family is doing its
best to live the American dream and
pass it on to their kids. The Green New
Deal is not for that family. It would
outlaw their entire way of life, from
the minivan in the garage to the ham-
burgers on their grill, to the house
they call home.
The Green New Deal would be a death
sentence for America’s families. Yet
the Democrats have the nerve to sell it
as a rescue mission. I reject that fraud
on America, and now so does the Sen-
ate.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, March is
Women’s History Month. A number of
my colleagues have been coming to the
floor and talking about the accom-
plishments of particular women in
their States. I want to do the same
thing.
When Virginia Minor, a St. Louisan,
was denied the ability to register to
vote in 1872, she took her case all the
way to the Supreme Court. While she
wasn’t successful at the Supreme Court
level, she remained a leader in the suf-
frage movement and later testified be-
fore the Senate Select Committee on
Woman Suffrage in 1889. Remember
that women didn’t get the right to vote
until 1920. So she was working on this
with thousands of others for a long
time. She is also one of seven women
represented in the Missouri State Cap-
itol’s Hall of Famous Missourians.
Virginia Minor and her fellow suf-
fragettes blazed a trail of political
leadership that others followed. In 1952
Leonor Sullivan became the first
woman in Congress from Missouri. Dur-
ing the 24 years that she served in the
House, she became the first woman ap-
pointed to the House Democratic
Steering Committee. She was elected
secretary, one of the elected leaders, of
the House Democratic caucus for five
terms.
Our former colleague, Senator Claire
McCaskill, won her Senate race in 2006.
With that, she became the first woman
elected to the U.S. Senate from Mis-
souri. Certainly, Senator McCaskill
and I disagreed on plenty of things over
the years, but, frankly, when it came
to the big issues affecting our State,
we always figured out how to work to-
gether to get things done.
Also from our State, I want to recog-
nize Margaret Kelly, who in 1984 was
appointed to the position of State audi-
tor. When that happened, that made
her the first woman to hold statewide
office in Missouri. She was elected to a
full term in 1986 and reelected two
more times after that.
In Missouri, at least, you can’t talk
about politics and the impact on poli-
tics without talking about Phyllis
Schlafly, who was a vocal and tireless
advocate for conservative ideas. She
was never afraid of a fight, but she also
knew when to celebrate what was pos-
sible. One of the great things about
Phyllis Schlafly was that she knew
how to win, when you could win, and
what you could win, when you could
win it, and, then, how to come back
and fight for what you didn’t get the
first time and continue to work for
more. She was a friend of mine. I value
her legacy. There is no question that
she impacted the political landscape of
the country.
As I mentioned earlier, there are
seven women represented in the Hall of
Famous Missourians. Two of them were
committed lifelong to education. In
1873 Susan Blow, who was born in St.
Louis, founded the first public kinder-
garten in the United States in the Des
Peres public school in Carondelet. In
1818 Saint Rose Duchesne opened the
first Sacred Heart school outside of Eu-
rope. The Academy of the Sacred Heart
was the first free school west of the
Mississippi and the first Catholic
school in what would eventually be-
come the St. Louis Archdiocese. I men-
tioned that this was Saint Rose
Duchesne, one of the first women to be
an American who rose to the level of
sainthood.
There are also a few world figures in
that hall of fame, like Josephine
Baker, who was not only an iconic en-
tertainer but also a civil rights activist
and, interestingly, a member of the
French resistance during World War II
while she was entertaining in Europe.
In our hall of fame, she is joined by
other entertainers, like Ginger Rogers
and Betty Grable.
The seventh woman honored in the
State capitol is Sacagawea, who, of
course, was part of the Lewis and Clark
expedition into Missouri and up the
Missouri River and other territories of
the Louisiana Purchase.
To cover all of the notable Missouri
women in history would be impossible.
To talk about the countless women
who are making an incredible impact
in our State today would be impos-
sible—people who are devoted to public
service, who are successful entre-
preneurs, who serve our country in the
Armed Forces, and so much more.
Those women and others continue to
help lead our country and to inspire
younger women. There is a reason that
March is Women’s History Month, and
thousands and thousands—maybe mil-
lions—of Missouri women would easily
qualify in that category of people who
have made a difference in history.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:53 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.027 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2028 March 27, 2019
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, as we
celebrate Women’s History Month, I
am proud to spotlight Wyoming’s great
history and achievements for women’s
equality.
Wyoming is the ‘‘Equality State’’—
the first State to give women the right
to vote and hold public office. We actu-
ally did it before statehood. Long be-
fore statehood, in 1869, the Wyoming
Territory was the first to grant women
the right to vote.
Louisa Ann Swain of Laramie be-
came the first woman in the United
States to vote in a general election in
1870, and Wyoming insisted on pro-
tecting women’s right to vote as a pre-
condition for even joining the Union in
1890.
Now, that is not all. The first elected
woman Governor in the United States,
Nellie Taylor Ross, was Wyoming’s
14th Governor.
Wyoming women continue to hold
key elected offices today, with strong
leaders like U.S. Representative LIZ
CHENEY.
The State owes a debt of gratitude to
all of these extraordinary women lead-
ers.
THE GREEN NEW DEAL
Now I would like to turn to this
week’s debate over the Democrats’ so-
called Green New Deal.
The Green New Deal isn’t about pro-
tecting our environment. It is about in-
creasing the size and scope of the Fed-
eral Government.
Every Democrat Senator running for
President supports the Green New
Deal. They have cosponsored it—each
and every one of them, every single
one.
By cosponsoring the Green New Deal,
these Senators have shown Americans
what they actually do support as can-
didates and as an agenda for America,
and that is massively increasing the
size of government.
This year the Federal Government is
projected to spend over $4 trillion.
That amount includes everything—So-
cial Security, national defense, Medi-
care, all of it. If we were to pass the
Green New Deal, it would cost up to $93
trillion over the next 10 years. That is
$9.3 trillion a year—more than double
what our government currently spends.
So, you see, the Green New Deal
would massively expand the Federal
Government, and that is exactly what
Democrat Senators running for Presi-
dent want and plan to do, if elected.
Don’t be confused by Senate Demo-
crats’ ducking this vote on the Green
New Deal. This is where Democrats
would take our country if they were to
retake the White House.
The Green New Deal would bankrupt
our Nation, would wreak havoc, and
would wreck the economy.
Republicans’ pro-growth, pro-jobs
policies have strengthened the econ-
omy and improved the lives of Amer-
ican families in their everyday lives at
home. Because of tax relief, millions of
families have more money now in their
pockets to decide what to spend, what
to save, and what to invest.
The Green New Deal plan would
eliminate fossil fuels by requiring 100
percent renewable, carbon-free energy
in just 10 years. Talk about having
extra money in your pocket to fill your
gas tank, but just putting gas in the
car would be extremely difficult if the
Green New Deal were to come to pass.
On the issue of climate change, cli-
mate change is real, but the Green New
Deal is unrealistic. While it is impor-
tant, in 2017 wind and solar energy gen-
erated just 8 percent of our electricity.
Should we have more? Yes, but 8 per-
cent of what we need is certainly inad-
equate.
Affordable and reliable fossil fuels,
like coal and natural gas, power three
out of five U.S. homes and businesses.
Excluding fossil fuels would snuff out
the bright lights of Americans’ pros-
perity. It would threaten national se-
curity. It would threaten jobs. It would
threaten our independence from foreign
energy, and all Americans’ higher
standard of living.
What Democrats are proposing is es-
sentially a pipe dream. It is no surprise
that Democrats have yet to provide a
cost estimate. They don’t want Ameri-
cans to know that the Green New Deal
could cost up to $93 trillion over the
next 10 years. That is roughly $65,000
each and every year for each and every
family in America.
The Nation is already over $22 tril-
lion in debt. So how are they planning
to pay for this? By doing what they
often plan to do—raising taxes.
Paying for a $93 trillion bill would
empty just about every Americans’
savings account in the country, and
let’s not forget that the Green New
Deal would not actually solve the prob-
lems they are trying to solve. Really,
the proposal amounts to unrealistic
economic disarmament.
Plus, U.S. economic decline would
harm the environment. That is what
we are hearing from the Green New
Deal. It would be unilateral harm to
our economy and no improvement to
the overall global climate. They want
it done immediately. They want it
done drastically. It is a level of alarm
that is not in any way called for.
When you think about the American
economy and what we are able to do in
this country, it is a strong economy
that allows for a clean environment.
The stronger the economy, often the
cleaner the environment is. That is
certainly the case here, when you com-
pare us around the world to other coun-
tries and their economies and their en-
vironments.
The label ‘‘Made in America’’ means
more than just the country of origin. It
means the better the environment. We
are being asked to destroy—that is
what the Democrats are asking us to
do with this Green New Deal—our
strong, growing, and improving econ-
omy and allow the largest polluters in
the world to grow at our expense.
Right now, 13 percent of emissions
comes from the United States, but 33
percent comes from China and from
India, and emissions in the United
States have been declining over the
last dozen years, while they continue
to go up in China and India and in
other locations around the world.
Why do Democrats want to do this?
Well, they would like to engineer a big
government takeover—or, I should say,
as they say, transformation—of the
U.S. economy.
There is a real solution that will not
wreck our economy, will not hurt our
Nation, will not hurt people’s jobs, and
will not hurt American families. The
solution is not taxation. It is not regu-
lation. It is innovation. Republicans
continue to work, and we do it in a bi-
partisan way to advance innovative
strategies for reducing carbon emis-
sions.
First, we are working to promote
carbon capture, and then using that
carbon and sequestering it, taking it
away. That means taking carbon out of
the atmosphere and using it produc-
tively. We can use it for medical
projects, construction projects, and for
extracting oil. You can push the carbon
dioxide into the ground in the area of
oil wells and get out more oil, as a re-
sult, leaving the carbon dioxide under-
ground.
Last year, the Senate passed the bi-
partisan FUTURE Act. It was signed
into law, and it expands tax credits for
carbon capture facilities.
Now we are advancing the bipartisan
USE IT Act, which will help to turn
carbon that has been captured into val-
uable products.
A second way Republicans are work-
ing in a bipartisan way to reduce emis-
sions is by supporting nuclear power.
Nuclear power generates about 60 per-
cent—60 percent—of American-pro-
duced carbon-free energy. By far, that
is the largest source of American car-
bon-free energy. It is much more than
double solar and wind power combined.
In late December, we passed the bi-
partisan Nuclear Energy Innovation
and Modernization Act. This legisla-
tion had Republican and Democratic
support and was signed into law by
President Trump. This law will help
innovators develop advanced nuclear
reactors that are safer, cleaner, and
more versatile. That is what we need to
do. It is simplifying the process on the
front end for the innovators to build
state-of-the-art nuclear reactors. These
advanced reactors are going to power
the next generation of nuclear plants.
We need them to expand the use of car-
bon-free energy. We also need to main-
tain our existing nuclear powerplants,
and Congress needs to address how we
manage nuclear waste. Nuclear power
is an area with broad bipartisan sup-
port. We must continue to work to-
gether on nuclear power.
A third approach that Republicans
are taking to reduce emissions is in-
creasing the use of renewable energy.
Republicans have repeatedly passed tax
incentives to promote clean energy.
These include tax credits for wind and
solar panels, as well as incentives for
biodiesel and compressed natural gas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:53 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.029 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2029
March 27, 2019
We know all these innovative strate-
gies work. We see it in America’s un-
paralleled success in reducing emis-
sions. This progress is not the result of
taxation; it is not the result of regula-
tion; it is the result of American inno-
vation. Our cutting-edge technologies
can be adopted globally.
Republicans want to make America’s
energy as clean as we can, as fast as we
can, while investing in promising inno-
vations for the future. Democrats want
more government control. That is what
they asked for with the Green New
Deal—control of our economy and con-
trol of our lives, despite the cost to
American families and American tax-
payers.
Let’s continue to pass real climate
solutions, not these far-left fantasies.
Let’s focus on what works for our envi-
ronment and our economy, not what
works for Democrats who are running
for President.
Republicans are going to continue to
oppose unrealistic, unworkable, and
unaffordable proposals like the Green
New Deal. It is a big green bomb. The
Democrats are ducking it, they are
dodging it, and they are now distancing
themselves from it by showing up on
the floor of the Senate—those who
have cosponsored it, those who have
gone on TV and on the hustings around
the country saying they would support
it and be for it—and voting not for it
but present. The Democrats are duck-
ing this for a good reason: They know
what a disaster it would be for our Na-
tion.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. PORTMAN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Mr. PORTMAN. Madam President, I
am on the floor today to talk about ca-
reer and technical education and spe-
cifically legislation we have introduced
that would provide a lot more training
opportunities for people who need the
in-demand jobs that are out there.
When people hear about career and
technical education, sometimes they
wonder what we are referring to. High
school programs used to be called voca-
tional education. Many in my genera-
tion might remember it as that. But it
is not your father’s Oldsmobile. It is
not the old voc-ed programs you might
remember. In fact, it is very impres-
sive. If you go to these CTE schools
today—and Ohio, luckily, has a lot of
great career and technical academies
and schools—you will see something
amazing. You will see young people
being trained for some of the most so-
phisticated jobs out there in bioscience
and technology, welding, of course, and
manufacturing—in Ohio, it is a big
deal—and also CDLs for truckdrivers,
commercial driver’s licenses. You
might see somebody there who is inter-
ested in going into firefighting or EMS.
This morning, I had a chance to visit
with a young man who is in a CTE pro-
gram where he is going to be imme-
diately hired by a fire department.
These are great opportunities for our
young people. Right now, these CTE
schools are incredibly important be-
cause the skills are needed, and the
training is needed.
One of the challenges we have had,
frankly, is that sometimes parents who
are advising their kids are saying ‘‘You
need to go to a 4-year college or univer-
sity like I did’’ or maybe like their
uncle or aunt did. Maybe that is the
goal they have for their kids, and that
is fine. For many young people, that is
appropriate, but for others, what a
great opportunity, to be able to get out
of high school, get a job immediately—
a good-paying job with good benefits—
and then at some point, because often
in these schools, including in Ohio, you
get college credit while you are in high
school, to go on to college later, and
perhaps your employer will pay for
that.
This morning, I was with a young
woman named Jordan. She is at the
Great Oaks career and technical center
in Southwest Ohio. Jordan is becoming
a welder, and, as I explained to Jordan,
she is going to have amazing opportu-
nities. She will have plenty of job op-
portunities because she is going to
have a skill that is so badly needed in
Ohio right now. Our manufacturing
sector is desperate for welders, and
they are willing to pay good money for
welders. She can make 45,000, 50,000
bucks a year with good benefits at 18
years old as a welder instead of taking
on student debt, which in Ohio is about
$27,000 on average. Somebody grad-
uating from community college or a 4-
year college or university is taking on
significant debt.
This is an opportunity for us to get
more young people into career and
technical education. We think we
ought to do it. We have a good econ-
omy right now thanks to tax reform
and regulatory relief. There is a lot of
hiring going on, and wages are actually
higher right now. In Ohio, we have a
number of people who are looking for
employees. The ‘‘help wanted’’ signs
are out there.
We have about 148,000 jobs available
in the State, if you look at
OhioMeansJobs.com, which is the
website that offers these positions.
Now, there are about 250,000 Ohioans
out of work. How does that make
sense? Well, it makes sense because if
you look at the jobs that are being of-
fered, for many of the jobs, you have to
have a skill. You have to be a coder or
a machine operator or a welder, or you
have to have some bioscience back-
ground to be a tech. So if we had the
skills training, we would be able to fill
these jobs, which is great for the com-
panies and for the economy but also,
again, a great opportunity for these
young people.
In 2018, our economy added 223,000
jobs per month on average. That is
about twice what the pre-tax reform
baseline estimate was from the Con-
gressional Budget Office of only 107,000
jobs per month. So we more than dou-
bled it. We have also had strong wage
growth over the last 12 months. In fact,
wage growth in the last year was high-
er than at any time in the last decade.
In Ohio, frankly, for a decade and a
half we have had flat wages. Finally,
we are now seeing wages going up. Last
month, the average was about 3.4 per-
cent growth for private sector workers
and, by the way, it is more for blue-col-
lar workers than for white-collar work-
ers, supervisory workers, which is all
good news.
We have a lot of good things going on
in terms of increasing jobs, increasing
wages, increasing benefits. Much of
that is due to tax reform. I have gone
all around our State and talked to
folks at roundtable discussions. I have
been to over 25 businesses to talk spe-
cifically: What did you do with the tax
savings? Every one of them has a great
story, but with all these pro-growth
policies kicking in, the thing I am
hearing now is: Yes, the tax reform
helped us. The regulatory relief is a
good idea, but we need workers, we
need people, and we need them to have
the skills that go with the jobs we
have. This mismatch between the skills
that are out there and these jobs, that
skills gap is the thing we need to close.
There are lots of ways to do that. The
National Skills Coalition estimates
that nearly half of all job openings be-
tween now and 2022 will be middle-skill
jobs that require education beyond
high school but not a 4-year degree. If
you have a career in technical, with op-
portunities in high school, and then
when you get out of high school, you
have a certificate or you can get into a
course where you can learn how to do
one of these skills—although you are
not getting an associate’s degree or a
bachelor’s degree, you are getting a
certificate, often a stackable certifi-
cate that can lead to a degree later—
that is what is going to be needed.
In its most recent skills gap study,
Deloitte and The Manufacturing Insti-
tute highlighted the fact that there are
so many jobs out there that need these
skills. They estimate there are about
2.4 million positions likely to be un-
filled between 2018 and 2028. The eco-
nomic impact of not having these jobs
filled is about a $2.5 trillion hit to our
economy. This is why all of this is so
important.
About 6 years ago, we started the Ca-
reer and Technical Education Caucus
in the Senate. At first, there were two
of us, Senator KAINE from Virginia and
myself. Now we have 27 Senators on
the CTE Caucus. Why? Because Mem-
bers are hearing back home about this,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:53 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.031 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2030 March 27, 2019
which has been good to raise awareness
for career and technical education. It
has been helpful for us to put together
some bipartisan legislation that helps
to promote career and technical edu-
cation.
Last year, in the Perkins bill, for in-
stance, Senator KAINE and I got legis-
lation in that helps to improve the
quality of CT programs all around the
country, ensuring again that college
credit can be offered, helping to hold
up programs to make sure young peo-
ple and their parents know about this
opportunity.
Just a couple weeks ago, Senator
KAINE and I reintroduced legislation
called Jumpstart Our Businesses by
Supporting Students Act. The acronym
is the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act is
something we introduced in the last
couple of Congresses, but I really feel
its time has come. I feel it is an oppor-
tunity right now for us to move for-
ward with the JOBS Act. One, we are
hearing from all around the country
the need for this, but, second, we have
the likelihood of a higher education
bill moving this year, which would be
the perfect place to put the JOBS Act.
It is a commonsense solution to help
solve the skills gap problem we are
talking about. It says, with regard to
Pell grants—which is for low-income
students—instead of just making them
available for community colleges or 4-
year colleges or universities or for
longer term courses, why not allow
Pell grants to be used for shorter term
training programs? That is what is
needed right now.
I think this is a fairness issue. When
I talk to students, as I did this morn-
ing here in Washington, as I do back in
the State of Ohio, what they tell me is:
ROB, I don’t have the money to get a
driver’s license and go through that
process, much less to get a certificate
to become a welder or to become a
coder or to become a tech in a hospital
setting. The government will give me a
Pell grant to go to a junior college or
a community college or a university,
but I can’t get a Pell grant to help me
get the training I need to actually get
out there and get a job that I know is
right there, ready, good pay, good ben-
efits.
To me, that shows how our system is
not working with regard to the modern
economy and the needs we have right
now, and it is not fair to those stu-
dents. I think we ought to allow stu-
dents to use Pell grants for shorter
term training programs of less than 15
weeks. I also think it is a matter of ef-
ficiency of the Pell grant and the tax-
payer.
Unfortunately, most people who take
a Pell who go to a college don’t grad-
uate. There are lots of reasons for that.
I think the main reason is because
many of them have to drop out because
they have to work, but, in the mean-
time, they don’t have the degree. So
they have the Pell, but they don’t get
the degree, not even a certificate;
whereas, in these short-term training
programs, a 15-week training pro-
gram—trust me, if somebody starts off
in one of these training programs, it is
much more likely they will end up get-
ting the certificate. They can see just
around the corner where the job is. In
a sense, the certificate is the ticket to
that job, and it is a shorter term pros-
pect. I think it is a very efficient use of
the Pell grant, and we should expand
the Pell grant, not take it away from
colleges and universities—not at all.
Pell is an incredibly important pro-
gram, but let’s allow it to be used for
short training programs.
I was at the CT Program in Akron,
OH, recently. I also went to Stark
State Community College. They have a
new campus. We had a roundtable on
workforce development. We had a lot of
local businesses there talking about
how great these programs have been
for them. We had students there. The
chamber of commerce was there.
Mayor Dan Horrigan of Akron and
Summit County executive Ilene Sha-
piro were there. I heard from students
in high school and in community col-
lege who were already working for
some of the local employers, businesses
like the K Company, an HVAC com-
pany based in Akron. They work with
Stark State; they work with local high
schools; and they get young people on
the right educational track to be able
to work in the HVAC field where there
are plenty of jobs right now. If you are
an HVAC tech, you can get a job. It has
been a great example of where they are
helping the economy, they are helping
a particular business, and they are
really helping students to get a great
job.
Stark State president Dr. Para Jones
is very innovative, working with our
high schools and working with the
business community, trying to ensure
we are all working together on this.
Dr. Jones, the employers who were
around the table, the educators who
were around the table, and the students
who were around that table—all of
them—were really excited about the
JOBS Act. They know it is going to
work. They know this will help them
deal with exactly the problems they
are seeing in the local community.
Last week, I also toured a company
in Hubbard, OH, Warren Fabricating
and Machining. As always happens, I
heard about the need for skilled work-
ers. It is a great example of a company
taking full advantage of the tax reform
and tax cuts. They bought a beautiful,
new machine that is incredibly impor-
tant for their effectiveness as a com-
pany to be able to compete with China
and others. They have also been able to
raise people’s salaries and increase the
benefits with their tax savings, but
their issue now is getting the work-
force. They want to operate at full ca-
pacity, but they can’t find the people.
They have openings right now.
I also visited an advanced manufac-
turer called Rhinestahl Corporation in
Mason, right outside of Cincinnati.
They manufacture high-precision parts
for the aerospace and defense industry.
Other employers were there, as well as
Butler Tech, which is a local CTE pro-
gram which has done really incredible,
innovative work.
There, I had the opportunity to meet
with a lot of students. One of them was
a high school student named Jake. He
is a chemical operator at a nearby
manufacturer called Pilot. He is a vet-
eran who has completed his certificate
training, and his employer is now pay-
ing for him to continue his education
and get a degree while working for
them. Connor was there, a high school
student who is running machines and
learning advanced manufacturing
while working at a place called RB
Tool. Torez is a 19-year-old who went
to the program and is now in charge of
calibration and making sure precision
tools are up to speed at this company,
Rhinestahl.
The teacher of all these students, a
guy named Dave Fox, was there. He
said his last class of 28 graduates had a
combined total of more than 100 job of-
fers. Think about this. These young
people going through these certificate
programs, 28 young people, had more
than 100 job offers. These are good job
offers. We are talking about $40,000,
$50,000 a year, jobs that pay $18 to $20
an hour and good benefits, and a lot of
employers will pay for them to con-
tinue their education, should they
choose to do so.
Last week, President Trump came to
the Joint Systems Manufacturing Cen-
ter in Lima, OH. This is an incredible
manufacturing facility that does some-
thing unique in America, which is they
build tanks. The kind of welding they
have to be trained on is incredibly so-
phisticated and difficult to do. The
kind of machine work they have to do
is really difficult. Cutting the tanks’
steel is an incredibly difficult task,
plus some other alloys they use to pro-
tect our troops in the field. They need
to hire about 400 additional workers in
the next year or so, partly because,
with the defense buildup, we are put-
ting more money into the plant. I am
very pleased to say President Trump in
his budget put more funding into the
Lima plant this year, but they need
workers, and they need help training
people. They need skilled welders, ma-
chinists, assembly workers, and var-
ious types of engineers.
These are good-paying jobs and great
opportunities for young people. Wheth-
er they are coming up through the
ranks in high school or whether they
are midcareer changing jobs, it would
be great for us to help them get the
people they need, and the JOBS Act,
they all say, would be exactly what
they need to help to do that.
At a roundtable discussion at Staub
Manufacturing in Dayton recently, the
CEO of the company told me he be-
lieves welders coming out of high
school will be better off financially
than many attorneys or doctors.
I asked him what he meant by that.
He pointed out that while an attorney
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.033 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2031
March 27, 2019
or another professional might make
more coming right out of school, by
the time they get out of school—law
school, as an example—and get out of
debt and start investing, the welder is
well on his or her way to building a sig-
nificant nest egg.
It is true. When you think about it, a
welder makes, let’s say, $50,000 a year
starting at age 18. Let’s say there is no
student debt because, again, through
the certificate program and through a
Pell—if we get the JOBS Act passed, in
particular—this person is able to do so
without any student debt. Using an on-
line calculator and assuming about 8
percent growth, if that individual sets
aside 10 percent of his or her income
toward retirement, from the age of 18
up to 67—and this assumes a person
gets no raise at all, which of course is
not going to happen. A person is going
to have a higher salary over time as
the person gets more seniority, but as-
suming no raise, $50,000 a year: $2.8
million in retirement savings at age 67.
That is a nice nest egg to be able to
live comfortably in retirement with
peace of mind.
Compare that to an attorney, let’s
say, making $100,000 a year in a big law
firm, starts investing at least at 30
years old, after they get through
school and paying off their debt. It
may be later, but let’s say 30 to be con-
servative. If that person sets aside 10
percent of his or her income: $2.2 mil-
lion by age 67. So even though the at-
torney had a higher salary and was in-
vesting twice as much each month, the
welder making $50,000 a year is going
to be better off.
Part of this is getting people into
these jobs and getting them into jobs
when they are young, where they can
begin to make investments in their re-
tirement but also make investments in
a car, buy the house, start putting
money aside for their kids’ education,
just to have the peace of mind that
comes with knowing you are going to
have this profession and this oppor-
tunity to get ahead early in life.
I am hoping we can get the JOBS Act
passed. It would help provide so many
people—particularly young people—
these opportunities. If we can shift the
paradigm, stop this notion of thinking
that everybody who is going through
high school needs to go to a 4-year col-
lege or university right away and in-
stead think about, how do you ensure
that this young person can have an op-
portunity to get ahead in life, learn a
skill where there is an immediate need,
and actually help our economy? Be-
cause our biggest challenge right now,
as I see it—not just in the manufac-
turing sector, where it is particularly
obvious, but across the board, in bio-
science, certainly in moving, transpor-
tation, truckdriving, and other profes-
sions, the biggest challenge we have
right now is workforce. This would do
both.
The JOBS Act has been endorsed by
the National Skills Coalition, the Asso-
ciation for Career and Technical Edu-
cation, the Association of Community
Colleges and Trustees—I know commu-
nity colleges have put this highest on
their list—and other groups.
I am also pleased to say, again, it is
in the budget. President Trump puts
together a budget every year. This
year’s budget actually has our JOBS
Act included in it. It is one that is to-
tally bipartisan.
Senator KAINE from Virginia and I
have been the coauthors of this legisla-
tion over the years. We continue to
work closely together on this. We have
10 cosponsors already, having just in-
troduced this a couple weeks ago. It is
a bipartisan group, mixed, Republicans
and Democrats. We also have a lot of
outside stakeholders supporting it,
and, again, it is now in the President’s
budget.
The reason we are getting all this
support is it works. It works. It will
cover programs that, at a minimum,
require 150 hours and 8 weeks to com-
plete. There are some alternative pro-
grams that limit them by requiring
them to be 320 hours. I will tell you our
community colleges tell me none of
their short-term training programs
would qualify for that higher number
of hours—programs like welding, preci-
sion machining, electrical trades. All
those programs would fit into the
JOBS Act but not into some of the al-
ternatives that are being discussed.
We need the JOBS Act now, and we
think there is a great vehicle for it—
which is the Higher Education Act—
this year. A big fan of career and tech-
nical education is the chairman of that
committee, Senator LAMAR ALEX-
ANDER. He understands the need for us
to provide the kind of skills training
needed to fill the jobs that are out
there that companies are desperate to
fill. He sees this in his own State of
Tennessee, where he has a lot of manu-
facturing jobs, including auto manufac-
turers that are looking for more skilled
workers every day.
As we work to reauthorize the Higher
Education Act, my hope is colleagues
on both sides of the aisle will join us in
ensuring that the JOBS Act is included
in that. Let’s be sure that we deal with
the fairness issue here and that we
have a sense of understanding about
our economy and what the needs are
right now.
A lot of that need is in skills and the
kind of skills that the JOBS Act would
provide. It just makes too much sense.
If we make career and technical edu-
cation a priority and if we enact the
JOBS Act I discussed today, we are
going to help tens of thousands of our
young people be able to achieve their
dreams, whatever they are, and to have
better opportunities. Just as impor-
tant, we are going to be able to help
our economy—help to ensure that here
in the United States we have a growing
economy where we have better tax pol-
icy, better regulation policy, and also,
for the workers, ensure that the com-
panies don’t pick up and move because
they don’t have the workforce. Compa-
nies tell me in Ohio: You know, ROB,
we could do what we are doing here in
other places, and not just Indiana,
which is next to Ohio, but maybe India.
We don’t want that. We want to have
the workforce that is needed to be able
to keep these good jobs and keep these
companies here in this country, to en-
sure that we can keep moving in a posi-
tive direction, and, again, to ensure
that Ohioans can develop the skills
they need to grow in the career of their
choice and to fulfill their potential in
life.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The Senator from Pennsyl-
vania.
CHILDCARE
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise to
talk about an issue that I know is on
the minds of many, many Americans,
especially folks who are in the middle
class or who are struggling to get to
the middle class, and that is the issue
of childcare.
I think most of us in this Chamber
agree that all children born in this
country have a light inside of them.
For some children, that light will shine
very brightly without a lot of help as
they have innate abilities or they have
circumstances they are born into for
which they don’t need a lot of help
from public policy or from programs or
from legislation. Yet there are a lot of
children who have a light inside of
them that can burn to the full measure
of its potential if we do our job. When
I say ‘‘our job,’’ I mean the job of elect-
ed officials. I think it is the job of
every elected official at every level of
government and of those who work
with them to do everything they can to
make sure that the light inside of
every child burns as brightly as at
least the full measure of his or her po-
tential.
We know, just by way of one example
in the context of childcare, that afford-
able, high-quality childcare enables
parents to work so they can support
their families. Also, quality, affordable
healthcare helps give children the
early learning experiences they need to
develop and succeed in school. When
children learn more and it is early in
life, they will earn more much later in
their lives. That connection between
learning and earning isn’t just a
rhyme; all the research shows that
there is a direct connection. When that
child learns at a younger age because
of early education and quality
childcare and so many other strategies,
we are all better off. Not only is that
child better off in his or her family, but
we are all better off. We will have a
higher skilled workforce; we will have
a more productive workforce; and we
will grow and be able to out-compete
any country in the world if we invest
in early learning.
Unfortunately, we know the chal-
lenges. The cost of childcare has in-
creased by 25 percent in just the last
decade, which has created significant
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.034 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2032 March 27, 2019
financial strains for those same mid-
dle-class families. According to data
from Child Care Aware, which is in my
home Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
the average cost of full-time, center-
based childcare is about $11,560 for an
infant and about $8,712 for a 4-year-old.
This is about 12 percent of a married
couple’s annual income in Pennsyl-
vania, and it is nearly 46 percent of a
single parent’s annual income—46 per-
cent. That is not sustainable. That is
not a number that anyone should be
satisfied with. Frankly, I am not sure
that 12 percent of the annual income
for a two-parent family is sustainable.
We should get that number into the
single digits. The bill I will talk about
in a moment seeks to do that.
Just this past week, when we were all
back in our States and were able to
travel for the better part of a week, I
had the chance to get to six childcare
centers in cities across Pennsylvania,
and I spoke to more than 25 families
who shared their stories about their
struggles. The struggle, of course, in
this case, was the struggle to afford
high-quality childcare.
I was in Philadelphia, Pottstown,
Gettysburg, Verona, Erie, and Reading.
If you had charted those cities on a
map, you would have literally gone
from the furthest corner of the south-
eastern part of our State, which is
Philadelphia, to the most remote,
northwestern corner of the State, in
Erie. I went to communities below Erie
and to the northeast as well—so lit-
erally every corner of the State. Across
those communities, we heard a lot of
the same challenges, a lot of similar
stories.
For example, one single mom in
Philadelphia told us recently what, I
think, is emblematic of what is hap-
pening in a lot of communities:
I struggle every day to make ends meet. I
am not eligible for any public assistance, so
I juggle my bills just to make ends meet. I
have to become very creative in making sure
that I pay my mortgage, utilities, and
childcare.
Then she goes on from there to write:
Then I decide if I can pay for anything in
addition to that, such as healthcare, food,
necessities for my child or my home. I knew
I would not be able to afford childcare. Luck-
ily, I have the support of loved ones in my
life who support me when I fall short. Most
do not have this.
Then this single mother goes on to
write the following:
All of my family and friends struggle to
pay for childcare because we are middle class
individuals who make too much money to
qualify for childcare assistance or any other
programs, but we also don’t make enough
money to actually afford childcare out of
pocket. Oftentimes, we have to choose a
childcare based off of a price and not based
off of the quality of education they will pro-
vide our children at the childcare facility.
Notice what she wrote at the end
there. She is making a decision about
the childcare she will provide for her
children based off only one consider-
ation—the price. It is not based on the
quality.
Therein lies the problem that we
have to try to solve. If we have mil-
lions and millions of families—middle
class or who are struggling to get to
the middle class—making childcare de-
terminations based solely on the cost,
we will all be in trouble over time.
That is not what we should be doing. It
doesn’t mean the price will not be a
challenge for so many, and it doesn’t
mean the price will be irrelevant, but if
they are not able to find quality
childcare that is affordable, that child
will be worse off over time; that com-
munity will be; and the rest of us will
be. We will not have the high-skilled
workforce that we need. We will not be
able to compete and win the battle
across the world that we need to win,
and that is the battle to create the
highest skilled workforce in the world
and to maintain that advantage.
When I was in Gettysburg this past
week, I heard from two parents who
had adopted two children, one of whom
has significant medical issues and has
been in and out of the hospital. They
have struggled to find a childcare cen-
ter that is able to handle the behav-
ioral and developmental needs of their
children. The father, who is a small
business owner, has had to make ad-
justments to his work schedule and sell
off some of his business assets to make
ends meet. He has had to choose be-
tween paying for his own health insur-
ance or that of his children. He has had
to give up his own insurance to ensure
there will never be a lapse in coverage
for his children. He makes too much
money to qualify for childcare sub-
sidies but lives with constant anxiety
over his financial situation.
Part of his testimony and that of his
wife was very emotional because of the
stress and the pressure on that fam-
ily—the stress and pressure of the
healthcare itself and also of the stress
and pressure because of the cost of
childcare.
I was grateful he was willing to share
his story. In a public setting, it is not
easy to talk about the burdens that
you live with every day in order to
push a policy forward so as to make
life better for another family. Like a
lot of these parents, I was grateful they
were willing to help us better under-
stand those struggles so that we could
better propose good policy.
We also heard from a single mom who
works long hours as she tries to ad-
vance and work her way up the cor-
porate ladder. Prior to her current cir-
cumstance, she was waitressing and
barely making $11,000 a year. When she
was hardly making any income, she
was able to make ends meet with the
assistance of the Supplemental Nutri-
tion Assistance Program and CCIS,
which is our State’s childcare program
that helps families. Now she is in a dif-
ferent circumstance. She works full
time—an achievement that she is quite
proud of. She is no longer eligible,
though, for these programs because her
income has gone up.
The good news is her income went up,
and she has a full-time job. The bad
news is that it knocks her out of eligi-
bility. She must pay the full cost of
childcare and be away from her chil-
dren. She doesn’t know what she will
do during the summer as she will need
to increase the time her children are in
care, which will result in higher costs
when her children are on summer
break. So that is the dilemma she
faces—working harder and getting a
full-time job but then not being able to
afford help. She needs help from us as
well.
I spoke with a mother in Verona, PA,
in Allegheny County, who has an 11-
month-old child who is in childcare
now. Though both she and her husband
work full time, they struggle to afford
care. They would like to grow their
family, but, again, the cost of childcare
is their main reason for not doing so.
We know that childcare helps children
grow and learn, that it helps parents
work and provide for their families,
and that it helps employers retain a
productive workforce. Yet families
across the country are unable to afford
care. That is why it is so important
that we increase Federal investments
in early learning and childcare.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, the
Childcare and Development Block
Grant program was funded at $5.27 bil-
lion here in Washington. That was an
83-percent increase—the largest single
increase in the history of the program.
In that same year—the last budget
year, the last appropriations year—
Head Start received a little more than
$9.8 billion, and that was $610 million
more than the program got in 2017.
Both of those were good results. It
doesn’t happen every day in Wash-
ington, we know. These historic, bipar-
tisan investments were continued in
the last fiscal year. So there was an in-
crease in this last fiscal year. It was
nowhere near the increase of the prior
year, but there were extra dollars to
sustain funding. These investments are
already making an impact in States
like Pennsylvania and across our coun-
try, but there is so much more unmet
need and so much more work to be
done. So it is good news on the block
grants, but, of course, that is not the
whole story on childcare.
I am pushing for both increased fund-
ing for the next fiscal year—the one we
are working on now, 2020—as well as
two bills that will make high-quality
childcare accessible and affordable for
low- and middle-income families. The
first is the Childcare for Working Fam-
ilies Act, and the second is the Child
and Dependent Care Tax Credit En-
hancement Act. I will discuss them in
that order.
The Childcare for Working Families
Act would first provide direct financial
assistance to working parents to help
pay for childcare and early learning to
ensure that no parents would pay more
than 7 percent of their household in-
comes for childcare if they earn less
than 150 percent of the State’s median
income.
These numbers change between me-
dian household income and median
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:53 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.037 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2033
March 27, 2019
family income, but if you are just look-
ing at the median household income in
Pennsylvania, it is about $57,000. If you
do 150 percent of that, you will be into
the eighties, roughly. We don’t know
where the line would be drawn for cer-
tain State by State, but if we can come
up with a way to keep costs below 7
percent for folks who are in that in-
come range—say, roughly, in the low
eighties down—we can help these fami-
lies do two things: go to work while
providing childcare for their children
that is quality childcare and also be
able to afford it.
The second part of the bill—and it is,
basically, three parts—will be uni-
versal access to high-quality preschool
programs for 3- and 4-year-olds.
The third part would be to improve
workforce compensation by ensuring
that all childcare workers are paid a
living wage and that early childhood
educators are provided parity with ele-
mentary schoolteachers who have simi-
lar credentials and experience. So
there are three parts to that bill—
childcare help, early learning help with
preschool, and paying the workforce
more.
People in both parties say it all the
time: We care about our children, and
we care about our seniors. But some-
times the folks who provide care to
both groups of Americans—those who
provide care and early learning to chil-
dren and those who provide skilled care
in nursing homes and other settings to
seniors—are among the lowest paid
workers in our society. So we say we
prioritize those Americans, and we
don’t lift them up with the kind of
workforce that they sometimes need.
The second bill I will talk about—and
then I will wrap up—I will soon re-
introduce with Congressman DAVIS. It
is a proposal to improve and expand an
existing tax credit which we know as
the child and dependent care tax cred-
it, not to be confused with the child
tax credit, the tax credit you may have
eligibility for if you have a child. This
one focuses on child care and depend-
ent care.
This bill would help families pay for
childcare expenses by doing the fol-
lowing: first, increasing the maximum
amount of the credit from just over
1,000 bucks—about $1,050—to $3,000 per
child, and it could go up as high as 6,000
if you have more than one child, mak-
ing the full tax credit available to
most working families with incomes up
to $120,000 a year.
Now, under the current law, that
credit starts to lose its value once you
hit only $15,000 of income—not that
high of an income level. By raising
that number, you are going to get a lot
more middle-class families that will
benefit, as well as some trying to get
to the middle class.
The third part of the bill would en-
sure that lower income families are
better able to benefit from the credit
by making it fully refundable.
You have this strange dynamic where
folks are working and they have an in-
come, but the income is rather limited
and the credit is not refundable. So
they don’t get anything back from that
credit. So it isn’t worth much to them
in many cases.
The last part of the bill will retain
the value over time by indexing the
benefits of this child and dependent
care tax credit and raise those thresh-
olds based upon inflation.
In conclusion, I think it is pretty
simple. All children deserve the chance
to learn and succeed, regardless of
where they are born or regardless of
their family’s income. That is why it is
so important to make sure that all
families have access to high-quality,
affordable childcare and early learning.
Together, these proposals will help to
bring us closer to that reality and, I
would argue, closer to meeting our ob-
ligation as elected officials at every
level of government—this being the
Federal level in the Congress, the Sen-
ate and the House, meeting our obliga-
tion to make sure that the light inside
of every child burns to the full measure
and shines to the full measure of its po-
tential.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. I ask unanimous
consent that the order for the quorum
call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
THE FEDERALIST SOCIETY
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President,
this week the Senate conveyor belt of
President Trump’s judicial nominees
grinds on. So far, the President and the
Senate leader have an unprecedented
pace in confirming Federal judges, es-
pecially powerful Federal appellate
judges. They seem to have no higher
priority.
What is a little weird about this is
that nearly 90 percent of Trump’s ap-
pellate judges and both of his Supreme
Court Justices are members of the so-
called Federalist Society. On the Su-
preme Court, Kavanaugh, Gorsuch,
Alito, and Thomas all are members.
Now, that is a little weird.
What is really weird is that through
this Federalist Society vehicle, big,
special interests are picking Federal
judges.
In effect, there are three Federalist
Societies. The first one most lawyers
know from law school. It is, for the
most part, a debating society made up
of like-minded aspiring lawyers drawn
to conservative ideas and judicial doc-
trine. They organize seminars and in-
vite academics, judges, and attorneys
to speak. That is terrific—no problem
there.
The second Federalist Society is the
parent organization of the campus de-
bating society—a sort of highbrow
think tank seeking to further conserv-
ative and libertarian judicial prin-
ciples. It convenes fancy forums with
conservative legal luminaries, from Su-
preme Court Justices to big-name poli-
ticians, to renowned legal scholars. It
issues newsletters and produces
podcasts and policy recommendations.
Through this, they hope to ‘‘reorder
priorities within the legal system’’ and
create a network of members ‘‘that ex-
tends to all levels of the legal commu-
nity.’’
I disagree pretty strongly with the
system of law they are trying impose,
and their funding is suspiciously ob-
scure, but this debate is a fine thing to
have—so no objection there either.
Then there is the third Federalist So-
ciety. This one doesn’t have much in
common with the law school debating
society, and it certainly doesn’t oper-
ate like your run-of-the-mill Wash-
ington think tank. This Federalist So-
ciety is the nerve center for a com-
plicated apparatus that does not care
much about conservative principles
like judicial restraint or originalism or
textualism.
This Federalist Society is the vehicle
for powerful, commercial, and indus-
trial interests that seek not simply to
‘‘reorder’’ the judiciary but to acquire
control of the judiciary to benefit their
interests. This third Federalist Society
understands the fundamental power of
the Federal judiciary to rig the system
in favor of its donor interests and, as
the Kavanaugh confirmation so clearly
illustrated, is willing to go to drastic
lengths to secure that power.
I am here today to talk about that
third Federalist Society.
The story of the third Federalist So-
ciety is partly the story of a man
named Leonard Leo, the society’s exec-
utive vice president.
Mr. Leo is now the most influential
person shaping America’s Federal judi-
ciary. Don’t be surprised if you are lis-
tening and you have never heard of
him. He has never been elected. He is
not accountable to any voter. Instead,
he is the front man for interests that
want to use the Federalist Society and
its surrounding network of front
groups and PR shops and think tanks
to acquire control over our courts.
Renowned court watcher Jeffrey
Toobin describes Mr. Leo as ‘‘Trump’s
subcontractor on the selection of Su-
preme Court Justices.’’ More accu-
rately, Mr. Leo is the subcontractor for
a network of big corporate interests
and front groups.
In the summer of 2016, it was Leo who
delivered the list of potential nominees
to fill the vacancy left by the death of
Antonin Scalia and the blocking of
Merrick Garland. It was Mr. Leo who
was involved in the Trump transition,
helping to conduct outreach to poten-
tial Supreme Court picks, including
Neil Gorsuch.
Mr. Leo even orchestrated a $1 mil-
lion donation to Trump’s inauguration.
The role of the Federalist Society
has been confirmed by President
Trump’s own legal counsel, Don
McGahn.
McGahn told a Federalist Society
gathering in 2017:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:53 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.038 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2034 March 27, 2019
Our opponents of judicial nominees fre-
quently claim the President has outsourced
his selection of judges. That is completely
false. I have been a member of the Federalist
Society since law school, still am, so, frank-
ly, it seems like it’s been in-sourced.
Ha-ha, so funny.
The Federalist Society does more
than pick the judges. They prepare
them. They study the prospective
nominees and the Senators who will
ask them questions. They gather mur-
der boards for nominees to practice for
confirmation hearings.
Mr. Leo is proud of this operation.
During the confirmation hearing for
Justice Neil Gorsuch, Leo told Toobin,
with considerable satisfaction:
You know, the hearings matter so much
less than they once did. We have the tools
now to do all the research. We know every-
thing they have written. We know what
they’ve said. There are no surprises.
In the Judiciary Committee, we see
the result over and over—meaningless
committee hearings where nominees
parrot empty words about applying law
to fact and respecting precedent. Then,
once confirmed and on the bench, those
nominees deliver dependably for the
partisan and corporate donors behind
this Federalist Society operation.
It is bad enough that judicial selec-
tion has been outsourced—or
insourced—to a partisan private entity.
Worse is how nontransparent this all
is. It is hard to find out who is behind
it. It is a very nontransparent problem,
but here is what we have been able to
piece together. The evidence is that the
Federalist Society is funded by mas-
sive, secret contributions from cor-
porate rightwing groups that have big
agendas before the courts.
In 2017 the Federalist Society took
$5.5 million via an entity called
DonorsTrust. DonorsTrust has as its
sole purpose to launder the identities
of donors to other groups so that Amer-
icans don’t know who the real backers
are of the groups. It is an identity re-
moval machine for big donors. Through
the hard work of investigators, jour-
nalists, and researchers, we have
learned that the Koch brothers are
among the largest—if not the largest—
contributors to DonorsTrust. The Fed-
eralist Society’s total annual budget is
about $20 million. So this $5.5 million
in funding, laundered through
DonorsTrust, provides more than a
quarter of its entire budget.
Other shadowy corporate and right-
wing organizations also donate mil-
lions to the Federalist Society. In 1
year, the Lynde and Harry Bradley
Foundation, a rightwing trust, gave
over $3 million to the Federalist Soci-
ety. Koch Industries, several other
Koch-network foundations and trusts,
and nearly a dozen wholly anonymous
donors have given over $100,000 each to
the Federalist Society. Tax documents
from 2014, uncovered by the New York
Times, show a donation of more than $2
million from the Mercer family, the se-
cretive donors who helped start
Breitbart News and bankrolled the
Trump campaign.
How do we know that these groups
have a big agenda before the courts?
We know that because they also fund a
fleet of front groups that file so-called
amicus briefs before courts signaling
what results the big donors want. The
Kochs, the Bradleys, the Mercers, and
their ilk spend millions to pursue an
anti-regulation, anti-union, and anti-
environment agenda, and they use the
Federalist Society to stock the judici-
ary with judges who will rule their
way.
The Federalist Society, as a 501(c)(3)
organization, is supposed to stay out of
politics. The Judicial Crisis Network is
a 501(c)(4) organization which can, and
does, get involved in politics. The Judi-
cial Crisis Network is led by a disciple
of Leonard Leo’s, a former clerk for ul-
traconservative Justice Clarence
Thomas. The Judicial Crisis Network
has been described in conservative cir-
cles as ‘‘Leonard Leo’s PR organiza-
tion—nothing more and nothing less.’’
When it comes time to muscle a judi-
cial nominee through Senate confirma-
tion, the Judicial Crisis Network
swings into action. Media campaigns,
attack ads, and big spending—that is
the Judicial Crisis Network’s world.
Like its Federalist Society partner,
the Judicial Crisis Network gets mas-
sive sums of dark money, and it spends
massively too. It spent $7 million on
campaigns to block Merrick Garland
from getting a hearing on his nomina-
tion to the Supreme Court, and it spent
$10 million to support the nomina-
tion—blockade enabled—of Neil
Gorsuch—and $7 million and $10 mil-
lion—and it received one anonymous
donation of $17.9 million. One donor
gave $17.9 million to this operation to
influence our judiciary. I will say that
we need to know who that donor was.
Because we are in the minority, we are
going to be spurned and rejected if we
try to get that information. On the
House side, where they have the power
of subpoena, we need to pursue that. It
ought to be public information when
one donor can spend nearly $18 million
to influence the selection of a U.S. Su-
preme Court Justice.
Judicial Crisis Network then got $23
million from something called the
Wellspring Committee. You will have
to forgive some of this because it is
very obscure. These are peculiar groups
that aren’t involved in any ordinary
business or regular activity. The
Wellspring Committee is a Virginia-
based entity with ties to—you guessed
it—Leonard Leo, and the Judicial Cri-
sis Network then promised to spend as
much on the Kavanaugh nomination as
they had for Gorsuch.
Add to this mix of peculiarly funded
and obscure organizations the BH
Group, a shell corporation that gave $1
million to Donald Trump’s inaugural.
The BH Group received over $1 million
in something called consulting fees in
2017 from something else called the Ju-
dicial Education Project. Who is Judi-
cial Education Project? The Judicial
Education Project is—guess what—the
501(c)(3) side of the Judicial Crisis Net-
work. Why does a shell corporation
give money to the Trump inaugural
and also serve as a consultant to a
legal organization fighting for the con-
firmation of specific Justices? What
consulting did they do? Was there any
consulting done at all? Great ques-
tions. Leonard Leo probably knows the
answer. In 2018, he told the Federal
Elections Commission that the BH
Group was his employer.
While this apparatus may be complex
and difficult to track, its goal is sim-
ple. Don McGahn explained it suc-
cinctly: ‘‘Regulatory reform and judi-
cial selection are . . . deeply con-
nected.’’ Translated, that means that
the Federalist Society’s goal is to pack
the judiciary through judicial selection
with judges who will deliver what is
called regulatory reform, an extreme
anti-regulation, anti-union, anti-envi-
ronment agenda for those corporatist
Federalist Society funders.
Let me give you two examples.
The Senate just confirmed Neomi
Rao to the DC Circuit Court of Ap-
peals. Rao comes right out of the deep
bog of special interest dark money. Her
bio appears on the Federalist Society
website, along with the list of 26 times
she has been featured at Federalist So-
ciety events—26 auditions, as one
might describe them.
This is a person confirmed for the DC
Court of Appeals who has never been a
judge. She has never even tried a case.
What has she done? She served as the
Trump administration’s point person
for tearing down Federal regulations as
head of the White House’s Office of In-
formation and Regulatory Affairs.
Among her greatest hits was taking
one of Scott Pruitt’s proposed regu-
latory rollbacks for the climate-change
driving-gas methane from the oil and
gas industry and tipping that regula-
tion even further in favor of fossil fuel
polluters. Out-Pruitting Scott Pruitt
for the fossil fuel industry is hard to
do. That may have been another audi-
tion for the court.
Rao also funded the so-called Center
for the Study of the Administrative
State at George Mason University’s
Antonin Scalia Law School, which is
devoted to conjuring ways to roll back
as many regulations affecting these
corporations as possible and is funded
by these same secretive groups.
I asked Ms. Rao about the funders of
her center at the Scalia Law School.
She claimed in her answers—and, by
the way, I will add that these were
questions for the record—written ques-
tions that she had time to consider, re-
view, and respond to. This was not a
surprise attack of an unprepared wit-
ness at a hearing. She had weeks to an-
swer. She claimed in her answers that,
to the best of her knowledge, her orga-
nization had not received any money
from the Federalist Society, from Koch
Family Foundations, or from anony-
mous funders.
Well, that was simply not true. A
Virginia open records request revealed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:53 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.040 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2035
March 27, 2019
that an anonymous donor and the
Charles Koch Foundation donated $30
million earmarked specially for her or-
ganization. Guess whose interests she
has been conveyed onto the DC Circuit
Court of Appeals to protect.
Now consider the case of Kisor v.
Wilkie, a case currently before the Su-
preme Court. It hasn’t gotten much at-
tention. On its face, it is about an ob-
scure administrative law doctrine, but
Kisor has been described as a ‘‘stalking
horse for much larger game’’—whether
administrative agencies can continue
to have the independence they need to
regulate in the public interests. At
stake could be the power of the EPA to
protect our air and water, of the De-
partment of Labor to continue to pro-
tect workers in the workplace, and of
the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion to protect investors against finan-
cial fraud.
Many corporations hate regulation.
The problem is regulations are pretty
popular. Politicians may talk about
cutting redtape, but their constituents
really like clean air and clean water.
They want safe workplaces and the
peace of mind that their investments
are sound.
That is where judges like Neomi Rao
and cases like Kisor come in. For dec-
ades we have operated in a system
where Congress passes laws and admin-
istrative Agencies fill in the details
and implement those laws using their
regulatory power and their time, pa-
tience, and expertise to deal with com-
plex problems. It has worked extremely
well. Cases like Kisor, however, slowly
chip away at that system, shifting
more and more power from expert regu-
latory agencies to courts and to courts
filled with more and more judges like
Neomi Rao.
The Daily Beast influence reporter
Jay Michaelson wrote:
Sometimes thought of as a legal associa-
tion, the Federalist Society is actually a
large right-wing network that grooms con-
servative law students still in law school
(sponsoring everything from free burrito
lunches to conferences, speakers, and jour-
nals), links them together, mentors them,
finds them jobs, and eventually places them
in courts and in government.
Within this Federalist Society is this
operation I have described, funded by
dark money and designed to remake
our judiciary on behalf of a distinct
group of very wealthy and powerful,
anonymous funders. Add to that the
dark money funding the so-called Judi-
cial Crisis Network. Add to that the
dark money funding the amicus briefs
telling these judges what to do. Then
look at the outcomes when the Fed-
eralist Society-selected appointees get
a majority on the court. It is not a
pretty sight.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
∑ Mr. BENNET. Mr. President. I wish
to honor the distinguished career of
Bruce Benson, the outgoing president
of the University of Colorado. Through
his tenacity and hard work, Bruce
made the university and the State of
Colorado a better place. CU is one of
the Nation’s great universities, and
Bruce’s contributions, including the
record-breaking growth in research
funding, have made it a source of state-
wide pride.
Bruce would admit that he was origi-
nally reluctant to take the job and
with good reason: He had already en-
joyed a long and fruitful career in poli-
tics, philanthropy, and business. How-
ever, those experiences and relation-
ships were exactly what made Bruce so
effective. As only he could, Bruce was
able to use these experiences to further
CU’s standing as one the Nation’s
prominent public universities and re-
search institutions.
Under Bruce’s leadership, the univer-
sity’s research funding reached record
levels, surpassing $1 billion during the
last academic year. This money al-
lowed for critical research in bio-
technology, healthcare, energy, and
aerospace and a number of other fields.
Additionally, CU had its 6 best fund-
raising years during his time at the
helm, including a record $440.4 million
between 2017 and 2018. All the while,
Bruce guided efforts to implement
operational efficiencies, cut bureauc-
racy, and improve business practices at
the university. Successes like these so-
lidify Bruce’s legacy and his commit-
ment to the future of Colorado. It is
worth noting that he is retiring as the
longest serving CU president in more
than half a century.
Bruce has always been a tireless
champion for Colorado’s young people.
He worked to make the DPS Founda-
tion into the great civic organization it
is today. He has also done extraor-
dinary work at Children’s Hospital Col-
orado.
Bruce has consistently worked to
change the lives of children and stu-
dents across the State of Colorado,
from the youngest of kids to college
graduates. I know I speak on behalf of
all of Colorado when I say that we are
all grateful for his service.∑
f
RECOGNIZING TREASURE COUNTY
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of congratu-
lating Treasure County for 100 years of
as one of Montana’s 56 counties.
Although one of the least populous
counties in Montana, Treasure boasts
many historic buildings that incor-
porate the rich history of Big Sky
Country from the Yucca Theater with
its beautiful Spanish mission style ar-
chitecture that provided hope and en-
tertainment during the Great Depres-
sion, to the 1950s contemporary style
courthouse in Hysham. With a popu-
lation less than a thousand, Treasure
County’s rich lands provide a bounty
for ranchers and farmers alike.
Treasure County is an important
part of Montana’s cherished history
and remains a vital part of our State’s
landscape. I congratulate the folks
down in Treasure County on cele-
brating 100 years of excellence in local
government.∑
f
REMEMBERING SAMYA STUMO
∑ Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, Samya
Stumo, a University of Massachusetts
Amherst graduate and resident of Shef-
field, MA, was tragically killed aboard
Ethiopian Airlines flight 302. Samya,
just 24 years old, was a champion of so-
cial justice, with a goal of revolution-
izing global health. Her undergraduate
fieldwork in Peru challenged unjust so-
cial services; her master’s work in Eu-
rope gave a voice to marginalized pa-
tient groups living with viral hepatitis;
and, most recently, she was working to
disrupt the status quo in global health
systems to help countries achieve uni-
versal healthcare coverage. She strove
for all people and patients to be treated
as human beings, particularly in con-
text of their culture, family, and indi-
viduality. She was a beacon of hope for
Massachusetts, the Nation, and all of
the lives she has touched.∑
f
UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI’S BI-
CENTENNIAL RESEARCH AND IN-
NOVATION WEEK
∑ Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to recognize the University of
Cincinnati on their bicentennial cele-
bration honoring 200 years of extraor-
dinary research.
In January of 1819, two colleges were
chartered by the state of Ohio: the
Medical College of Ohio and Cincinnati
College. Both are predecessors to to-
day’s University of Cincinnati. The
opening enrollment of Cincinnati Col-
lege was roughly 70 students. Today,
the University of Cincinnati has an en-
rollment of nearly 46,000 students,
making it one of the largest univer-
sities in the Nation. UC stands as a
Carnegie Research 1 university, with a
living alumni base of more than 300,000;
a world-acclaimed campus and top pro-
grams in music, health, design, science,
and more; plus a $4.2 billion economic
impact in its tristate region of Ohio,
Kentucky, and Indiana.
Next week, UC will be celebrating its
Bicentennial Research and Innovation
Week. The week will be honoring UC’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:53 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G27MR6.042 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2036 March 27, 2019
past 200 years of extraordinary re-
search by showcasing the impactful,
imaginative, and innovative work re-
searchers at UC are doing today. Exam-
ples of the research and innovation
that will be highlighted during the
week include demonstrations of con-
nected autonomous vehicles, presen-
tations on infrastructure to share data
in smart secure cities, pitches by stu-
dent-inventors and entrepreneurs, dis-
cussions on partnerships needed for the
goal of ending the opioid epidemic,
highlights from experts in
bioinformatics, neuroscience, and engi-
neering at the University of Cincinnati
and its affiliated institutions and how
they are pushing the boundaries of
clinical and data sciences, and more.
UC is proud of the broad societal im-
pacts the work of our researchers have
had on Cincinnati, the region, and be-
yond. Congratulations to the Univer-
sity of Cincinnati for 200 years of re-
search and innovation excellence.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO DR. RONNIE BOOTH
∑ Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. Mr.
President, today I would like to cele-
brate the service and achievements of
Dr. Ronnie Booth of Anderson, SC, as
he approaches his retirement from his
position as president of the Tri-County
Technical College. Dr. Booth, named
the third president of TCTC in 2003, has
spent the last 16 years helping to ad-
vance the college and community to its
current level of unprecedented success.
Under Dr. Booth’s leadership, Tri-
County Technical College launched
three community campuses, three
workforce training centers, and eco-
nomic development, technology and
student success centers among dif-
ferent campuses. He also created and
established the Bridge to Clemson and
Connect to College Programs, which
both help to create pathways for stu-
dents of all backgrounds to achieve
their goals. Other notable achieve-
ments during his tenure include the
Technical Career Pathways Program,
Michelin Manufacturing Scholars Pro-
gram, and I-BEST Manufacturing
Pathway Program.
Just this past year, Tri-County Tech-
nical College earned the top ranking in
student success, transfer, and gradua-
tion among the 16 colleges in the SC
Technical College System and also
ranked in the top 1 percent nationally
for successful transfers to 4-year col-
leges and universities. Community sup-
port and partnerships have also grown
under Dr. Booth’s leadership, truly
uniting the Tri-County area for the
better.
Dr. Booth has also been an active and
engaged citizen, being a member of
multiple professional associations,
civic groups, and State and national
boards. His commitment to improving
the lives of his students, school, and
community cannot be understated, and
he has surely made a resoundingly
positive impact on countless students,
faculty, staff, and community mem-
bers. His leadership will not be soon
forgotten, and I congratulate him on
his successes, as well as wish him good
fortune, on this next chapter in his
life.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO SAMUEL B. OLDEN
∑ Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I am
pleased to advise the Senate of the ac-
complishments of a fellow Mississip-
pian, Mr. Samuel B. Olden of Yazoo
City, on the occasion of his 100th birth-
day.
Mr. Olden is from Yazoo City, the
gateway to the Mississippi Delta,
where he was born in 1919, to a family
of Mississippi planters. Throughout his
youth, he read widely in the B.S. Ricks
Memorial Library, the oldest privately
funded public library in the State,
which greatly contributed to his per-
sonal development and admission into
the University of Mississippi in Oxford.
There, he received a B.A. and M.A., re-
portedly conversed with Nobel Prize
winning author William Faulkner, and
was ultimately recruited to Wash-
ington, DC, to serve at the Department
of State. Prior to American involve-
ment in World War II, Mr. Olden was
sent abroad as the Vice Consul at our
embassy in Quito, Ecuador, from 1941
to 1943. Upon his return, Mr. Olden en-
listed in the U.S. Navy, serving from
1943–46 at posts ranging from Shanghai,
China, to Paris, France.
After the war, Mr. Olden transited
the north Atlantic on a Liberty ship. A
fellow naval officer noted Mr. Olden’s
fortitude during this stormy passage.
While tending to his ailing father back
in Mississippi, he received a letter from
Washington asking him to consider de-
fending our Nation’s freedom, in a
third, essential way. Mr. Olden re-
turned to the District of Columbia,
where he was invited to join the newly
formed Central Intelligence Group.
Commencing in 1947, Mr. Olden spent 2
years in the group’s Washington office,
followed by 3 years in Vienna, Austria,
where he defended freedom and democ-
racy against Communist aggression.
Following a decade in public service,
Mr. Olden entered the private sector,
where he employed his experience
abroad for Mobil Oil. From 1952–1957, he
was posted in East and West Nigeria,
British and French Cameroon, The
Congo, Chad, and Gabon. He joined
Mobil’s government relations depart-
ment in 1957 and returned to New York.
There, he attained Observer status at
the United Nations and strode the halls
with Adlai Stevenson and Eleanor Roo-
sevelt. Later, he went abroad once
more to serve as general manager of
Mobil’s affiliates in Tunisia, Algeria,
Peru, and Spain.
By 1974, Mr. Olden was fluent in
English, French, German, and Spanish.
He had connections around the world.
And where did he go? He chose to retire
to the finest place that he had ever
lived: Yazoo City. There, he owned and
operated a cattle ranch for 15 years,
while continuing to pursue his passion
for the study of history. He was twice
a board member and was elected presi-
dent of the Mississippi Historical Soci-
ety, served 15 years on the State Com-
mittee for the Center for the Study of
Southern Culture at the University of
Mississippi, and founded the Yazoo His-
torical Society’s remarkable museum,
housed in the same Triangle Center
building where he had attended ele-
mentary school. Even in his 90s, he es-
tablished and helped to fund the Yazoo
Memorial Literary Walkway, which
stretches between the Triangle Center
and the B.S. Ricks Library. The walk-
way memorializes more than 100
Yazooan authors that include former
U.S. House Minority Leader and U.S.
Senator John Sharp Williams, literary
critic and editor Henry Herschel
Brickell, Governor Haley Reeves
Barbour, beloved writers Willie Morris,
Teresa Nicholas, Ruth Williams, John
Langston, and Caroline Langston
Jarboe, and educator Henry Mitchell
Brickell. His large collection of pre-Co-
lumbian ceramics is now on display in
the Mississippi Museum of Art in Jack-
son and is the focus of Yumi Park’s
book ‘‘Mirrors of Clay.’’
This remarkable man has served his
Nation as a diplomat, military officer,
and emissary, during wars hot and
cold. He served the world in the energy
industry as a global businessman of
distinction. He returned to his home-
town and has continued to serve his
State, his university, and his commu-
nity as a historian, educator, and phi-
lanthropist even into the tenth decade
of his life. His friends across the Nation
and around the world celebrate with
him today.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:08 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 297. An act to extend the Federal rec-
ognition to the Little Shell Tribe of Chip-
pewa Indians of Montana, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 1388. An act to take lands in Sonoma
County, California, into trust as part of the
reservation of the Lytton Rancheria of Cali-
fornia, and for other purposes.
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
At 1:49 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bill:
S. 252. An act to authorize the honorary
appointment of Robert J. Dole to the grade
of Colonel in the regular Army.
The enrolled bill was subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bill was read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:53 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.011 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2037
March 27, 2019
H.R. 1388. An act to take lands in Sonoma
County, California, into trust as part of the
reservation of the Lytton Rancheria of Cali-
fornia, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Indian Affairs.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
H.R. 297. An act to extend the Federal rec-
ognition to the Little Shell Tribe of Chip-
pewa Indians of Montana, and for other pur-
poses.
f
ENROLLED BILL PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, March 27, 2019, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bill:
S. 252. An act to authorize the honorary
appointment of Robert J. Dole to the grade
of colonel in the regular Army.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–703. A communication from the Acting
Director, Office of Management and Budget,
Executive Office of the President, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘OMB Sequestration Preview Report to the
President and Congress for Fiscal Year 2020’’;
to the Special Committee on Aging; Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry; Appropria-
tions; Armed Services; Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs; the Budget; Commerce,
Science, and Transportation; Energy and
Natural Resources; Environment and Public
Works; Select Committee on Ethics; Fi-
nance; Foreign Relations; Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions; Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs; Indian Affairs; Select
Committee on Intelligence; the Judiciary;
Rules and Administration; Small Business
and Entrepreneurship; and Veterans’ Affairs.
EC–704. A communication from the Acting
Director, Office of Management and Budget,
Executive Office of the President, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘OMB Report to the Congress on the Joint
Committee Reductions for Fiscal Year 2020’’;
to the Special Committee on Aging; Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry; Appropria-
tions; Armed Services; Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs; the Budget; Commerce,
Science, and Transportation; Energy and
Natural Resources; Environment and Public
Works; Select Committee on Ethics; Fi-
nance; Foreign Relations; Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions; Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs; Indian Affairs; Select
Committee on Intelligence; the Judiciary;
Rules and Administration; Small Business
and Entrepreneurship; and Veterans’ Affairs.
EC–705. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Mandipropamid; Pesticide Toler-
ances’’ (FRL No. 9987–25–OCSPP) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on March
22, 2019; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–706. A communication from the Con-
gressional Review Coordinator, Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, Department
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Scrapie in
Sheep and Goats’’ (Docket No. APHIS–2007–
0127) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 25, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
EC–707. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Federal Milk Marketing Orders - Amending
the Class 1 Skim Milk Price Formula’’ ((7
CFR Part 1000) (Docket No. AMS–DA–18–
0096)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 20, 2019; to the Committee
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–708. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Pecans Grown in the States of Alabama,
Arkansas, Arizona, California, Florida, Geor-
gia, Kansas, Louisiana, Missouri, Mississippi,
North Carolina, New Mexico, Oklahoma,
South Carolina, and Texas; Revision of Re-
porting Requirements’’ ((7 CFR Part 986)
(Docket No. AMS–SC–18–0019; SC18–986–1
FR)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 20, 2019; to the Committee
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–709. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, Agricultural Marketing Service,
Department of Agriculture, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fresh Fruits, Vegetables and Other Prod-
ucts Inspection, Certification and Standards
and Processed Fruits and Vegetables, Proc-
essed Products Thereof, and Certain Other
Processed Food Products; Removal of Power
of Attorney and Other Administrative
Changes’’ ((7 CFR Parts 51 and 52) (Docket
No. AMS–SC–16–0106)) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 20, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–710. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the Budget Blueprint of the
United States Government for Fiscal Year
2020 received during adjournment of the Sen-
ate in the Office of the President of the Sen-
ate on March 18, 2019; referred jointly, pursu-
ant to the order of January 30, 1975 as modi-
fied by the order of April 11, 1986; to the
Committees on the Budget; and Appropria-
tions.
EC–711. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the fiscal year 2018 Annual Nu-
clear Weapons Stockpile Assessments from
the Secretaries of Defense and Energy, the
three national security laboratory directors,
and the Commander, United States Strategic
Command (OSS–2019–0274); to the Committee
on Armed Services.
EC–712. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Special Operations
and Low Intensity Conflict), transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to the De-
partment of Defense support activities pro-
vided under the authority of Section 1022 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
FY 2004 during fiscal year 2018 (OSS–2019–
0206); to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–713. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Sustainment),
transmitting, pursuant to law, a notice of
additional time required to complete a re-
port that includes a fuel budget justification
for the upcoming fiscal year, an appendix of
all Department of Defense operational en-
ergy initiatives, the Joint Staff’s progress in
implementing the energy Key Performance
Parameter, and certification of the Presi-
dent’s Budget as adequate for the implemen-
tation of the Department’s Operational En-
ergy Strategy; to the Committees on Armed
Services; and Appropriations.
EC–714. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a request
relative to issuing a travel restriction on
senior officials’ travel to Syria effective
March 19, 2019; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–715. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a request
relative to issuing a travel restriction on
senior officials’ travel to Iraq effective
March 19, 2019; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–716. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and
Reserve Affairs), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report on the mobilizations of selected
reserve units, received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 20, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–717. A communication from the Senior
Official performing the duties of the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readi-
ness), transmitting the report of six (6) offi-
cers authorized to wear the insignia of the
grade of brigadier general in accordance with
title 10, United States Code, section 777, this
will not cause the Department to exceed the
number of frocked officers authorized; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–718. A communication from the Senior
Official performing the duties of the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readi-
ness), transmitting the report of eleven (11)
officers authorized to wear the insignia of
the grade of rear admiral (lower half) in ac-
cordance with title 10, United States Code,
section 777, this will not cause the Depart-
ment to exceed the number of frocked offi-
cers authorized; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–719. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Program to Encourage Pub-
lic and Community Service (PACS)’’
(RIN0790–AK44) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 13, 2019; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–720. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the
issuance of an Executive Order with respect
to transnational criminal organizations that
takes additional steps to deal with the na-
tional emergency with respect to significant
transnational criminal organizations de-
clared in Executive Order 13581 of July 24,
2011; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–721. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to per-
sons undermining democratic processes or
institutions in Zimbabwe that was declared
in Executive Order 13288 of March 6, 2003; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–722. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to
South Sudan that was declared in Executive
Order 13664 of April 3, 2014; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–723. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency that was declared in
Executive Order 13694 of April 1, 2015, with
respect to significant malicious cyber-en-
abled activities; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.008 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2038 March 27, 2019
EC–724. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency declared in Execu-
tive Order 13224 of September 23, 2001, with
respect to persons who commit, threaten to
commit, or support terrorism; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–725. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to
Ukraine that was originally declared in Ex-
ecutive Order 13660 of March 6, 2014; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–726. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report relative to the export to the
People’s Republic of China of an item not
detrimental to the U.S. space launch indus-
try; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–727. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report relative to the export to the
People’s Republic of China of items not det-
rimental to the U.S. space launch industry;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–728. A communication from the Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Export-Import Bank of the United States,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Uniform
Resource Locators (URLs) for the Bank’s
Fiscal Year 2020 Annual Performance Plan
and Fiscal Year 2018 Annual Performance
Report to Congress; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–729. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 2019
annual report relative to the Fair Debt Col-
lection Practices Act; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–730. A communication from the Pro-
gram Specialist of the Legislative and Regu-
latory Activities Division, Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of
the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Loans in Areas
Having Special Flood Hazards’’ (RIN1557–
AD84) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 15, 2019; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–731. A communication from the General
Counsel of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Rules of Practice
and Procedure; Civil Money Penalty Infla-
tion Adjustment’’ (RIN2590–AB01) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 13, 2019; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–732. A communication from the General
Counsel of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Margin and Capital
Requirements for Covered Swap Entities’’
(RIN2590–AB02) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 14, 2019; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–733. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director for Regulatory Affairs, Office of
Foreign Assets Control, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Technical Amend-
ments to OFAC Regulations to Incorporate
the List of Foreign Financial Institutions
Subject to Correspondent Account or Pay-
able-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA
List)’’ (31 CFR Parts 561 and 566) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on March
20, 2019; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–734. A communication from the Senior
Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Depart-
mental Offices, Department of the Treasury,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Freedom of Information Act
Regulations’’ ((RIN1505–AC35) (31 CFR Part
1)) received during adjournment of the Sen-
ate in the Office of the President of the Sen-
ate on March 20, 2019; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–735. A communication from the Assist-
ant to the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ments to the Capital Plan Rule’’ (RIN7100–
AF41) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 20, 2019; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–736. A communication from the Deputy
Secretary, Division of Corporation Finance,
Securities and Exchange Commission, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘FAST Act Modernization and Sim-
plification of Regulation S–K’’ (RIN3235–
AM00) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 22, 2019; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–737. A communication from the Asso-
ciate General Counsel for Legislation and
Regulations, Office of General Counsel, De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Adjustments of Civil
Monetary Penalty Amounts for 2019’’
(RIN2501–AD90) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 25, 2019; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–738. A communication from the General
Counsel, Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Implementation of
Amended Section 203(a)(1)(B) of the Federal
Power Act’’ ((RIN1902–AF56) (Docket No.
RM19–4–000)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 18, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
EC–739. A communication from the Chief of
the Regulations and Standards Branch, Bu-
reau of Safety and Environmental Enforce-
ment, Department of the Interior, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Oil and Gas and Sulfur Operations on
the Outer Continental Shelf - Civil Penalty
Inflation Adjustment’’ (RIN1014–AA42) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 25, 2019; to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources.
EC–740. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works),
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the New Soo Locks Project, Sault
Ste. Marie, Chippewa County, MI; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–741. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Indiana; Attain-
ment Plan for Indianapolis and Terre Haute
SO2 Nonattainment Areas’’ (FRL No. 9991–
10–Region 5) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on March 15, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–742. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality State Implementation Plans; Cali-
fornia; Plumas County; Moderate Area Plan
for the 2012 PM2.5 NAAQS’’ (FRL No. 9990–34–
Region 9) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 15, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–743. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Clean Air Plans; 2008 8-Hour Ozone
Nonattainment Area Requirements; San Joa-
quin Valley, California’’ (FRL No. 9990–13–
Region 9) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 15, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–744. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Methylene Chloride; Regulation of
Paint and Coating Removal for Consumer
Use Under TSCA Section 6(a)’’ (FRL No.
9989–29–OCSPP) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 22, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–745. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Standards of Performance for New
Stationary Sources and Emission Guidelines
for Existing Sources Commercial and Indus-
trial Solid Waste Incineration Units; Tech-
nical Amendments’’ (FRL No. 9991–32–OAR)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 22, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–746. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Kentucky; Minor
Sources Infrastructure Requirement for the
2012 Fine Particulate Matter, 2010 Nitrogen
Dioxide, and 2010 Sulfur Dioxide NAAQS’’
(FRL No. 9991–40–Region 4) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 22,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–747. A communication from the Chair-
man, Medicare Payment Advisory Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
entitled ‘‘March 2019 Report to the Congress:
Medicare Payment Policy’’; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–748. A communication from the Chair,
Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
a report entitled ‘‘March 2019 Report to Con-
gress on Medicaid and CHIP’’; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–749. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Guidance Under
Section 851 Relating to Investments in Stock
and Securities’’ (RIN1545–BN55) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–750. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Distributions of
Stocks and Securities of a Controlled Cor-
poration’’ (Rev. Rul. 2019–09) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–751. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘2019 Calendar Year
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.016 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2039
March 27, 2019
Resident Population Figures’’ (Notice 2019–
19) received during adjournment of the Sen-
ate in the Office of the President of the Sen-
ate on March 21, 2019; to the Committee on
Finance.
EC–752. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Treasury Decision
(TD): Amendments to the Low-Income Hous-
ing Credit Compliance-Monitoring Regula-
tions’’ (RIN1545–BL39) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–753. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Treasury Decision
(TD): Amendments to the Low-Income Hous-
ing Credit Utility Allowance Regulations’’
(RIN1545–BM28) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–754. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Treasury Decision
(TD): Qualified Business Income Deduction’’
(RIN1545–BO71) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–755. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of firearms abroad controlled under
Category I of the U.S. Munitions Lists of .50
caliber machine guns to Oman for the Royal
Oman Guard in the amount of $1,000,000 or
more (Transmittal No. DDTC 18–053); to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–756. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of firearms abroad controlled under
Category I of the U.S. Munitions Lists of
5.56mm semi-automatic assault rifles to
Oman for the Omani Ministry of Defense in
the amount of $1,000,000 or more (Trans-
mittal No. DDTC 18–087); to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
EC–757. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of defense articles, including tech-
nical data and defense services, to the United
Kingdom and Israel to support the develop-
ment, integration, and support for F–135 pro-
pulsion system Organizational Level (O–
Level) maintenance field training, and serv-
ices for the operation and sustainment of the
F–35 Lightening II air systems operated by
the Ministry of Defense in Israel in the
amount of $100,000,000 or more (Transmittal
No. DDTC 18–057); to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
EC–758. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) and (d) of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act, the certification of a proposed li-
cense for the manufacture of significant
military equipment and the export of tech-
nical data and defense services, to Israel and
Germany to support the manufacture of fire-
arm components, parts, accessories, barrels,
blank receivers, and breech mechanisms in
the amount of $100,000,000 or more (Trans-
mittal No. DDTC 18–101); to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
EC–759. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0013 - 2019–0020); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–760. A communication from the Chair-
man, National Committee on Vital and
Health Statistics, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled, ‘‘Thirteenth Report to
Congress on the Implementation of the Ad-
ministrative Simplification Provisions of the
Health Insurance Portability and Account-
ability Act (HIPPA) of 1996’’; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–761. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs,
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Allocation of Assets in Sin-
gle-Employer Plans; Benefits Payable in Ter-
minated Single-Employer Plans; Interest As-
sumptions for Valuing and Paying Benefits’’
(29 CFR Parts 4022 and 4044) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 20,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–762. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Standards for the Growing,
Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce
for Human Consumption; Extension of Com-
pliance Dates for Subpart E’’ ((21 CFR Part
112) (Docket No. FDA–2011–N–0921)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 18, 2019; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–763. A communication from the Acting
Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory
Services, Office of Postsecondary Education,
Department of Education, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Guidance for the Standard Borrower De-
fense to Repayment Applications; Institu-
tions’ Notifications of Financial Responsi-
bility Events, Actions, and Conditions; Im-
plementation of the Class Action Bans and
Predispute Arbitration Agreements Provi-
sions; the Repayment Rate and Financial
Protection Disclosures Provisions of the 2016
Borrower Defense to Repayment Regula-
tions’’ (RIN1840–AD19) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 20, 2019; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
EC–764. A communication from the Acting
Assistant General Counsel for Regulatory
Services, Office of Postsecondary Education,
Department of Education, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Student Assistance General Provisions,
Federal Perkins Loan Program, Federal
Family Education Loan Program, William D.
Ford Federal Direct Loan Program, and
Teacher Education Assistance for College
and Higher Education Grant Program’’
(RIN1840–AD19) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on March 20, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–765. A communication from the Deputy
General Counsel, Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education, Department of Edu-
cation, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Title I, Part A of
the Elementary and Secondary Education
Act of 1965, as Amended by every Student
Succeeds Act: Providing Equitable Services
to Eligible Private School Children, Teach-
ers, and Families’’ received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on March 15, 2019; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–766. A communication from the General
Counsel, Office of Personnel Management,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a vacancy for the position of Director, Office
of Personnel Management, received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on March 21,
2019; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–767. A communication from the Asso-
ciate General Counsel for General Law, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report relative to a
vacancy in the position of Administrator,
Federal Emergency Management Agency,
Department of Homeland Security, received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on March 25, 2019; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–768. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for General Law, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, six (6) reports relative
to vacancies in the Department of Homeland
Security, received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–769. A communication from the Vice
Chairman and Executive Director of the Ad-
ministrative Conference of the United
States, transmitting, a report of five rec-
ommendations adopted by the Administra-
tive Conference of the United States at its
70th Plenary Session; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–770. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of Government Ethics, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the Office’s Congres-
sional Budget Justification and Annual Per-
formance Plan for fiscal year 2020, and the
Annual Performance Report for fiscal year
2018; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–771. A joint communication from the
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Oper-
ating Officer of the Armed Forces Retire-
ment Home, transmitting, pursuant to law, a
report entitled ‘‘Armed Forces Retirement
Home Performance and Accountability Re-
port for Fiscal Year 2018’’; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–772. A communication from the Execu-
tive Director, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the Commission’s fiscal year 2017 FAIR Act
inventory; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–773. A communication from a Senior
Official Performing the Duties of the Chief
Financial Officer, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting, pursuant to law, a
report entitled ‘‘U.S. Department of Home-
land Security Annual Performance Report
for Fiscal Years 2018–2020’’; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–774. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 21–563, ‘‘Short-Term Rental Reg-
ulation Act of 2018’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–775. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the Economic Report of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.018 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2040 March 27, 2019
President together with the 2019 Annual Re-
port of the Council of Economic Advisers; to
the Joint Economic Committee.
EC–776. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for General Law, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, two (2) reports relative
to vacancies in the Department of Homeland
Security, received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
EC–777. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the Victims Compensation Fund established
by the Witness Security Reform Act of 1984;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–778. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the annual report from
the Attorney General to Congress relative to
the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absen-
tee Voting Act; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
EC–779. A communication from the Regula-
tion Policy Development Coordinator, Office
of Regulation Policy and Management, De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘VA Acquisition Regulation: Construction
and Architect-Engineer Contracts’’ (RIN2900–
AQ18) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
EC–780. A communication from the Regula-
tion Policy Development Coordinator, Office
of Regulation Policy and Management, De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fertility Counseling and Treatment for
Certain Veterans and Spouses’’ (RIN2900–
AP94) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 15, 2019; to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
EC–781. A communication from the Acting
Administrator of the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration, Department of Transportation,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report enti-
tled ‘‘Assistance Provided to Foreign Avia-
tion Authorities for FY 2018’’; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–782. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Bureau of Transportation Statistics, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Transpor-
tation Statistics Annual Report 2018’’; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–783. A communication from the Regu-
latory Ombudsman, Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘ELDT;
Commercial Driver’s License Upgrade from
Class B to Class A’’ (RIN2126–AC05) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on March
21, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–784. A communication from the Deputy
Assistant Administrator for Regulatory Pro-
grams, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘International Affairs; Antarctic Marine
Living Resources Convention Act; Correc-
tion’’ (RIN0648–BI40) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 20, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–785. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘An-
chorage Ground; Sabine Pass, TX’’
((RIN1625–AA01) (Docket No. USCG–2018–
0388)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–786. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zones: Corpus Christi Ship Channel,
Corpus Christi, TX’’ ((RIN1625–AA87) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0156)) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on March 21, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–787. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Se-
curity Zones: Missouri River, Mile Markers
450–625, St. Joseph, MO to Omaha, NE’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0177)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 21, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–788. A communication from the Deputy
Chief, Consumer and Governmental Affairs
Bureau, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Rules and Regula-
tions Implementing the Telephone Consumer
Protection Act of 1991’’ (CG Docket No. 02–
278) received during adjournment of the Sen-
ate in the Office of the President of the Sen-
ate on March 15, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–789. A communication from the Chief of
Staff, Wireless Telecommunication Bureau,
Federal Communications Commission, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘1998 Biennial Regulatory Review—
Withdrawal of the Commission as an Ac-
counting Authority in the Maritime Mobile
and Maritime Mobile-Satellite Radio Serv-
ices’’ ((FCC 18–186) (IB Docket No. 98–96)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 14, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–790. A communication from the Asso-
ciate Bureau Chief, Wireline Competition
Bureau, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Connect America
Fund’’ ((FCC 19–8) (WC Docket No. 10–90)) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 15, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–791. A communication from the Chief of
Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Television
Broadcasting Services; Cookeville and
Franklin, TN’’ (MB Docket No. 18–383) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
March 18, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–792. A communication from the Chief of
Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘LPTV; TV
Translator, and FM Broadcast Station Reim-
bursement’’ ((FCC 19–21) (MB Docket No. 18–
214)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on March 22, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–16. A resolution adopted by the Gen-
eral Assembly of the State of New Jersey
urging the United States Congress to enact
the Military Surviving Spouses Equity Act;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION NO. 85
Whereas, under current federal law, sur-
vivors of deceased military members are re-
quired to forfeit part or all of their Survivor
Benefit Plan (SBP) annuity when they are
awarded Dependency and Indemnity Com-
pensation (DIC) from the United States De-
partment of Veterans Affairs (VA); and
Whereas, currently, surviving spouses of
active duty or retired members who died of a
service-connected cause are required to for-
feit $1 of their SBP annuity for each $1 re-
ceived in DIC; and
Whereas, for FY 2017, the DIC was approxi-
mately $1,258 a month and the offset wiped
out most if not all of the SBP annuity com-
pensation for a majority of survivors; and
Whereas, Congress has made attempts to
help some of the survivors by: raising the
lump-sum death gratuity for deaths after Oc-
tober 2001; ending the offset for survivors
who remarry after age 57; and authorizing
the Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance
(SSIA), a modest monthly rebate (approxi-
mately $310 in FY 2017) to SBP-DIC recipi-
ents subjected to this in equity; and
Whereas, however, the lump-sum increases
in the death gratuity did not help the 95% of
survivors whose spouses died of service-
caused conditions before 2001. Forced to for-
feit $1,258 a month, survivors view the SSIA
$310 rebate a poor effort at restitution. More-
over, SSIA will terminate in May 2018 if Con-
gress does not extend the allowance; and
Whereas, in 2007, the Veterans Disability
Benefits Commission was asked to review
the inequity and determined that when mili-
tary service causes a member’s death, the
DIC should be paid in addition to the SBP
annuity, not subtracted from it; and
Whereas, the Military Surviving Spouses
Equity Act is currently pending in Congress
to: repeal certain provisions that require the
offset of money paid in DIC compensation
from SBP annuities for surviving spouses
under 60 years of age; prohibit requiring re-
payment of certain monies previously paid
to SBP recipients; and require certain mili-
tary departments to pay the dependent chil-
dren when there is no eligible surviving
spouse; and
Whereas, this House urges Congress to pass
the Military Surviving Spouses Equity Act
because our nation’s military personnel risk
their lives to defend our nation and our free-
doms and they should be able to trust that
the benefits they designate for their families
will be provided; Now, therefore, be it
Be it resolved by the General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey:
1. This House urges Congress to enact the
Military Surviving Spouses Equity Act.
2. Copies of this resolution, as filed with
the Secretary of State shall be transmitted
by the Clerk of the General Assembly to the
President and Vice President of the United
States, the Majority and Minority Leaders of
the United States Senate, the Speaker and
Minority Leader of the United States House
of Representatives, every member of Con-
gress elected from this State, and the Sec-
retary of the United States Department of
Veterans Affairs.
POM–17. A resolution adopted by the Sen-
ate of the State of Alaska urging the imple-
mentation of an oil and gas leasing program
in the coastal plain of the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.020 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2041
March 27, 2019
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 7
Whereas, in 16 U.S.C. 3143 (sec. 1003 of the
Alaska National Interest Lands Conserva-
tion Act), the United States Congress re-
served the right to permit oil and gas devel-
opment and production in the coastal plain
of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; and
Whereas, in 16 U.S.C. 3142 (sec. 1002 of the
Alaska National Interest Lands Conserva-
tion Act), the United States Congress au-
thorized nondrilling exploratory activity in
the coastal plain of the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge; and
Whereas sec. 20001 of the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act of 2017 (P.L. 115–97) requires the United
States Secretary of the Interior to establish
and administer a competitive oil and gas
program for the leasing, development, and
production of oil and gas in and the trans-
portation of oil and gas from the coastal
plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge;
and
Whereas sec. 20001 of the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act of 2017 (P.L. 115–97) requires that at least
two lease sales be held by December 22, 2024,
and that each sale offer for lease at least
400,000 acres of land with the highest hydro-
carbon potential in the coastal plain of the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, allowing for
up to 2,000 acres of federal land, which is
equivalent to .01 percent of the 19,300,000-
acre refuge, to be covered by production and
support facilities; and
Whereas the coastal plain of the Arctic Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge contains an estimated
7,687,000,000 barrels of recoverable oil and
7,000,000,000,000 cubic feet of natural gas; and
Whereas the exploration, development, and
production of oil and gas in the coastal plain
of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is pre-
dicted to generate 1,430 direct jobs and 6,350
indirect jobs annually and 2,480 direct jobs
and 10,100 indirect jobs at peak employment;
and
Whereas the estimated potential govern-
ment revenue from petroleum development
in the coastal plain of the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge through 2050, including rev-
enue to the North Slope Borough, the state,
and the federal government from royalties,
income taxes, production taxes, and property
taxes, equals $104,673,000,000; and
Whereas oil and gas development in the
coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge has the potential to extend the life of
the Trans Alaska Pipeline System and in-
crease throughput, which has declined from
a peak of 2,033,000 average barrels of oil a day
in 1988 to 509,000 average barrels of oil a day
in 2018; and
Whereas oil and gas development in the
coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge has the potential to enhance the eco-
nomic viability of the proposed Alaska lique-
fied natural gas project; and
Whereas oil and gas development on the
coastal plain would strengthen national se-
curity and provide long-lasting benefits to
the national economy by creating thousands
of jobs nationwide, generating billions of
dollars in government revenue, providing af-
fordable energy to American consumers, and
decreasing dependence on foreign energy;
and
Whereas advances in extended-reach and
directional drilling technology have greatly
reduced the impact area of oil and gas activi-
ties, including shrinking the average drilling
pad size by more than 80 percent, from 65
acres in 1970 to 12 acres today, and increas-
ing the subsurface area accessible from mod-
ern drilling pads by nearly 2,000 percent,
from three square miles in 1970 to 60 square
miles today; and
Whereas safe and responsible oil and gas
exploration, development, and production
has been demonstrated by over 50 years of
activity on the North Slope of Alaska with-
out adverse effects on the environment or
wildlife populations; and
Whereas the state continues to strive to
ensure the ongoing health and productivity
of the Porcupine and Central Arctic caribou
herds and the protection of land, water, and
wildlife resources during the exploration and
development of the coastal plain of the Arc-
tic National Wildlife Refuge; and
Whereas polling consistently shows Alas-
kans overwhelmingly support responsible oil
and gas development in the non-wilderness
portion of the Arctic National Wildlife Ref-
uge; and
Whereas, while most Alaskans support de-
velopment in the coastal plain of the Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge, many do so with
the understanding that the state’s workforce
will be used to the maximum extent possible
if the leasing program moves forward; and
Whereas the proposed leasing area of the
coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge is located in the North Slope Bor-
ough, and many residents of the borough, the
population of which is predominantly
Inupiat, are supportive of development in the
non-wilderness area of the coastal plain; be
it further Resolved, That the Alaska State
Legislature requests that the United States
Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land
Management, implement an oil and gas leas-
ing program in the coastal plain of the Arc-
tic National Wildlife Refuge as outlined in
the December 2018 Coastal Plain Oil and Gas
Leasing Program Draft Environmental Im-
pact Statement; and be it further
Resolved, That the Alaska State Legisla-
ture requests that the United States Depart-
ment of the Interior, Bureau of Land Man-
agement, in its consideration of action alter-
natives outlined in the December 2018 Coast-
al Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Draft
Environmental Impact Statement, take into
account the long history of safe and respon-
sible oil and gas development on Alaska’s
North Slope, the enormous benefits develop-
ment of oil and gas resources in the coastal
plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
would bring to the state and the nation, the
advances in oilfield technology that con-
tinue to shrink the impact area of oil and
gas activities, and the support of residents
from the North Slope Borough and across the
North Slope of Alaska for oil and gas devel-
opment in a portion of the coastal plain.
Copies of this resolution shall be sent to
the Honorable Donald J. Trump, President of
the United States; the Honorable Michael R.
Pence, Vice President of the United States
and President of the U.S. Senate; the Honor-
able David Bernhardt, Acting United States
Secretary of the Interior; Brian Steed, Dep-
uty Director for Policy and Programs, Bu-
reau of Land Management, U.S. Department
of the Interior; and Nicole Hayes, Coastal
Plain Project Manager, Bureau of Land Man-
agement Alaska State Office, U.S. Depart-
ment of the Interior.
POM–18. A concurrent resolution adopted
by the Legislature of the State of South Da-
kota urging the United States Congress to
amend the Social Security Act to allow
states to provide Medicaid services to those
persons presumed innocent in jail awaiting
trial; to the Committee on Finance.
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 8
Whereas, a basic principle of the United
States judicial system is that citizens
charged with a crime are innocent until
proven guilty; and
Whereas, the United States and South Da-
kota have determined it is right and appro-
priate to care for our most vulnerable citi-
zens through the Medicaid program, and
county jails are populated by many persons
who have serious medical conditions and
mental illnesses or who are the parents of
small children who qualify for Medicaid ben-
efits; and
Whereas, the jail population in the United
States is growing faster than the prison pop-
ulation, and approximately two-thirds of the
jail population consists of those pending dis-
position who remain innocent until proven
guilty and who are currently not being treat-
ed equally to those awaiting trial who ob-
tained bail and were released awaiting adju-
dication; and
Whereas, providing Medicaid services to
persons in jail pending disposition will in-
crease the likelihood that the provision of
services is continuous once the person reen-
ters the community; and
Whereas, section 1905(a)(A) of the Social
Security Act prevents South Dakota from
providing Medicaid services to persons in jail
pending disposition who would otherwise be
covered under the Medicaid policies of South
Dakota: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, By the Senate of the Ninety-
Fourth Legislature of the State of South Da-
kota, the House of Representatives concur-
ring therein, that the Legislature requests
the United States Congress to amend the So-
cial Security Act to allow states to provide
Medicaid services to those persons presumed
innocent in jail awaiting trial; and be it fur-
ther
Resolved, That the secretary of the senate
transmit copies of this resolution to the
Speaker and Clerk of the United States
House of Representatives, the President and
Secretary of the United States Senate, the
United States Secretary of Health and
Human Services, and to the South Dakota
congressional delegation.
POM–19. A resolution adopted by the Sen-
ate of the State of California urging the
United States Congress and the President of
the United States to support a woman’s right
to make reproductive health decisions and
access reproductive healthcare; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
SENATE RESOLUTION NO. 7
Whereas, January 22, 2019, marks the 46th
anniversary of the United States Supreme
Court’s landmark decision in Roe v. Wade
(1973) 410 U.S. 113, which affirmed that every
woman has a fundamental right to control
her own reproductive decisions and to decide
whether to øend or to continue pregnancy,¿
continue a pregnancy or obtain an abortion,
and is an occasion deserving of acknowledg-
ment; and
Whereas, Roe v. Wade has been the corner-
stone of women’s ability to control their re-
productive lives, allowing every woman in
the United States the right to decide when,
if, and with whom to have children, and how
many children to øhave;¿ have, and has
helped facilitate women’s economic and societal
participation in the United States; and
øWhereas, Women’s ability to control their
reproductive lives has helped and facilitated
their participation in the economic and so-
cial life of our nation; and¿
Whereas, In the years prior to the Roe v.
Wade øhas drastically reduced the maternal
mortality rate for women terminating their
pregnancies in the United States. In the
years prior to the¿ decision, illegal abortion
accounted for approximately 17 percent of all
reported deaths attributable to pregnancy
and childbirth, and many women were se-
verely injured as a result of ‘‘back alley’’
abortion procedures; and
Whereas, Interference with a woman’s
right to choose causes women to be forced
into illegal and dangerous abortions, as they
often were in the United States before the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:05 Jun 07, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\MARCH\S27MR9.REC S27MR9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2042 March 27, 2019
Roe v. Wade decision. Many women are
forced to make these decisions today in
countries where abortion is illegal and where
the unsafe methods of illegal abortion lead
to 13 percent of global maternal deaths annu-
ally, or eight maternal deaths every øhour.
Many survivors of an illegal abortion suffer
serious and often permanent injuries;¿ hour;
and
Whereas, Roe v. Wade continues to protect
the health and freedom of women throughout
the United øStates;¿ States. National peer-re-
viewed studies show abortion is a safe medical
procedure, increasingly provided through out-
patient medication, that nearly one in four
women in the United States will access; and
Whereas, Roe v. Wade is in serious jeop-
ardy of being overturned or further eroded due
to President Donald J. Trump’s appointment
of two justices to the United States Supreme
Court who have a record of being hostile to
a woman’s constitutional right to choose,
Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh; and
Whereas, States are passing legislation that
creates barriers to abortion and there are more
than a dozen cases limiting abortion rights that
could be considered by the Supreme Court of the
United States; and
Whereas, Providers of sexual and reproduc-
tive healthcare are still under serious, unrelent-
ing attack for providing essential information
and services, such as abortion, as evidenced by
bomb threats, arson, and vandalism in Cali-
fornia and the fact that death threats against
abortion providers doubled, and incidents of
clinic obstruction tripled, nationally from 2016
to 2017 alone; and
Whereas, The State of California stands in
strong support of every woman’s funda-
mental right, as confirmed in Roe v. Wade,
to make øher own¿ decisions regarding øher
pregnancy;¿ pregnancy and commits to boldly
advance access to sexual and reproductive
healthcare within our state; now, therefore, be
it
Resolved by the Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, That the Senate urges the President
of the United States and the United States
Congress to express their support for a wom-
an’s fundamental right to control her own
reproductive decisions, as well as their sup-
port for access to comprehensive reproduc-
tive øhealth care,¿ healthcare, including the
services provided by Planned Parenthood;
and be it further
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate
transmit copies of this resolution to the
President and Vice President of the United
States, to the Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives, to the Majority Leader of the
Senate, to each Senator and Representative
from California in the Congress of the United
States, and to the author for appropriate dis-
tribution.
POM–20. A resolution adopted by the Gen-
eral Assembly of the State of New Jersey
urging the United States Congress to pass
legislation that would automatically enroll
veterans for benefits in the Department of
Veterans Affairs system; to the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION NO. 163
Whereas, Military service members are eli-
gible for a range of United States Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs (VA) benefits when
they are discharged; and
Whereas, Currently, those benefits may in-
clude, but are not limited to, healthcare, dis-
ability, educational, and employment bene-
fits; and
Whereas, Under the VA pre-discharge pro-
gram, members are encouraged to apply for
each type of benefit they are entitled to
prior to their discharge, and are encouraged
to work with an accredited representative
during this process; and
Whereas, While helpful to service mem-
bers, the process in place for applying for
each type of benefit can be time consuming
and burdensome, especially as service mem-
bers are making a transition from military
to civilian life; and
Whereas, Providing for automatic enroll-
ment of veterans for the VA benefits they
are entitled to would facilitate this process
and ease the transition to civilian life: Now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey:
1. This House urges the United States Con-
gress to pass legislation to automatically en-
roll veterans for benefits they are entitled to
in the United States Department of Veterans
Affairs system.
2. Copies of this resolution, as filed with
the Secretary of State, shall be transmitted
by the Clerk of the General Assembly to the
President of the United States Senate, the
Senate Minority Leader, the Speaker of the
United States House of Representatives, the
House Minority Leader, the Secretary of the
United States Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, and each member of Congress elected
from this State.
POM–21. A petition from a citizen of the
State of Ohio relative to tax incentives on
American-made automobiles; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORT OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive report of a
nomination was submitted:
By Mr. RUBIO for the Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship.
* David Christian Tryon, of Ohio, to be
Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business
Administration.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, and Ms. CORTEZ MASTO):
S. 886. A bill to amend the Omnibus Public
Land Management Act of 2009 to make the
Reclamation Water Settlements Fund per-
manent; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
SMITH, and Ms. ERNST):
S. 887. A bill to revise counseling require-
ments for certain borrowers of student loans,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
SMITH, and Ms. ERNST):
S. 888. A bill to require a standard finan-
cial aid offer form, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
SMITH, and Ms. ERNST):
S. 889. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to make technical im-
provements to the Net Price Calculator sys-
tem so that prospective students may have a
more accurate understanding of the true cost
of college; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
COTTON):
S. 890. A bill to authorize the Sergeant at
Arms to protect the personal technology de-
vices and accounts of Senators and covered
employees from cyber attacks and hostile in-
formation collection activities, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
By Mr. SULLIVAN:
S. 891. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide payment of Medal of
Honor special pension under such title to the
surviving spouse of a deceased Medal of
Honor recipient, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, and Ms. MURKOWSKI):
S. 892. A bill to award a Congressional Gold
Medal, collectively, to the women in the
United States who joined the workforce dur-
ing World War II, providing the aircraft, ve-
hicles, weaponry, ammunition, and other
materials to win the war, that were referred
to as ‘‘Rosie the Riveter’’, in recognition of
their contributions to the United States and
the inspiration they have provided to ensu-
ing generations; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
BURR, Mr. WARNER, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. BENNET, Mr. COTTON, and
Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 893. A bill to require the President to de-
velop a strategy to ensure the security of
next generation mobile telecommunications
systems and infrastructure in the United
States and to assist allies and strategic part-
ners in maximizing the security of next gen-
eration mobile telecommunications systems,
infrastructure, and software, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. COONS, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Ms. HARRIS, Mr. KAINE, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ, and
Mr. REED):
S. 894. A bill to authorize dedicated domes-
tic terrorism offices within the Department
of Homeland Security, the Department of
Justice, and the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion to analyze and monitor domestic ter-
rorist activity and require the Federal Gov-
ernment to take steps to prevent domestic
terrorism; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Ms.
STABENOW):
S. 895. A bill to provide for a permanent ex-
tension of the enforcement instruction on
supervision requirements for outpatient
therapeutic services in critical access and
small rural hospitals; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Ms. HIRONO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 896. A bill to amend the Ethics in Gov-
ernment Act of 1978 to provide for reform in
the operations of the Office of Government
Ethics, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. TILLIS, Ms. SMITH, Ms. ERNST,
and Mr. JONES):
S. 897. A bill to amend title 11, United
States Code, with respect to the definition of
‘‘family farmer’’; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and
Mr. SCHUMER):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.032 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2043
March 27, 2019
S. 898. A bill to designate the Manhattan
Campus of the New York Harbor Health Care
System of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs as the ‘‘Margaret Cochran Corbin Cam-
pus of the New York Harbor Health Care Sys-
tem’’; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr.
CARPER):
S. 899. A bill to limit the authority of the
President to modify duty rates for national
security reasons and to limit the authority
of the United States Trade Representative to
impose certain duties or import restrictions,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr.
TESTER):
S. 900. A bill to designate the community-
based outpatient clinic of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in Bozeman, Montana, as
the ‘‘Travis W. Atkins Department of Vet-
erans Affairs Clinic’’; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
CASEY, Mrs. CAPITO, and Mr. JONES):
S. 901. A bill to amend the Older Americans
Act of 1965 to support individuals with
younger onset Alzheimer’s disease; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr.
TESTER):
S. 902. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for the non-applica-
bility of non-Department of Veterans Affairs
covenants not to compete to the appoint-
ment of physicians in the Veterans Health
Administration, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. RISCH, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. COONS, Mrs.
CAPITO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, Mr. BENNET, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr.
PORTMAN, and Mr. GARDNER):
S. 903. A bill to direct the Secretary of En-
ergy to establish advanced nuclear goals,
provide for a versatile, reactor-based fast
neutron source, make available high-assay,
low-enriched uranium for research, develop-
ment, and demonstration of advanced nu-
clear reactor concepts, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. BENNET,
Mr. ISAKSON, and Mr. BRAUN):
S. 904. A bill to authorize the Department
of Labor’s voluntary protection program; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr. CASEY,
and Mr. LEAHY):
S. 905. A bill to amend the Older Americans
Act of 1965 to authorize a national network
of Statewide senior legal hotlines, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and
Mrs. CAPITO):
S. 906. A bill to improve the management
of driftnet fishing; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr.
PERDUE):
S. 907. A bill to preserve open competition
and Federal Government neutrality towards
the labor relations of Federal Government
contractors on Federal and federally funded
construction projects, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself and
Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 908. A bill to provide for an equitable
management of summer flounder based on
geographic, scientific, and economic data
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. SASSE (for himself, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
HAWLEY, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. CORNYN, Mr.
LEE, Mr. ROUNDS, and Mr. INHOFE):
S. 909. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, with respect to the judicial re-
view of agency interpretations of statutory
and regulatory provisions; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr.
SCHATZ):
S. 910. A bill to reauthorize and amend the
National Sea Grant College Program Act,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
TOOMEY):
S. 911. A bill to require the installation of
secondary cockpit barriers on existing air-
craft, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Ms. ERNST:
S. 912. A bill to require certain public hous-
ing agencies to absorb port-in housing choice
vouchers, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Mr. BRAUN:
S. 913. A bill to require group health plans
and health insurance issuers offering health
insurance coverage to disclose cost informa-
tion to enrollees in such plans or coverage;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Ms.
CANTWELL):
S. 914. A bill to reauthorize the Integrated
Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act
of 2009, to clarify the authority of the Ad-
ministrator of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration with respect to
post-storm assessments, and to require the
establishment of a National Water Center,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Ms.
WARREN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Mr.
SANDERS):
S. 915. A bill to prohibit public companies
from repurchasing their shares on the open
market, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. SMITH, and
Mr. KING):
S. 916. A bill to improve Federal efforts
with respect to the prevention of maternal
mortality, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. BOOK-
ER, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. JONES, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. SANDERS,
and Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 917. A bill to direct the Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce for Communications and
Information to prepare and submit periodic
reports to Congress on the role of tele-
communications in hate crimes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO):
S. 918. A bill to prohibit the President or a
Federal agency from constructing, oper-
ating, or offering wholesale or retail services
on broadband networks without authoriza-
tion from Congress, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Ms. SINEMA,
Mr. MARKEY, and Mr. WICKER):
S. 919. A bill to reduce regulatory burdens
and streamline processes related to commer-
cial space activities, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
ROMNEY):
S. 920. A bill to amend title II of the Social
Security Act to make available parental
leave benefits to parents following the birth
or adoption of a child, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. WARREN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. SMITH, Mr. SANDERS, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. MERKLEY,
and Ms. HIRONO):
S.J. Res. 15. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States relative to equal rights for
men and women; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. COONS, Mr. MERKLEY,
and Mr. BOOKER):
S. Res. 122. A resolution observing the 25th
Anniversary of the genocide in Rwanda; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. RISCH (for himself, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. TILLIS, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
JOHNSON, and Mr. MURPHY):
S. Res. 123. A resolution supporting the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization and rec-
ognizing its 70 years of accomplishments; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. PETERS, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr. MAR-
KEY, and Mr. SCHUMER):
S. Res. 124. A resolution condemning the
March 15, 2019, terrorist attacks in Christ-
church, New Zealand, offering sincere condo-
lences to all of the victims and their fami-
lies, and expressing and standing in soli-
darity with the people and Government of
New Zealand; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. BROWN, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
COONS, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. CARPER, Mr. JONES, Mr.
REED, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. HIRONO,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. UDALL, Ms.
WARREN, Ms. SMITH, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. DURBIN, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. PETERS, Mr. KAINE, Ms.
BALDWIN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
KING, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CASEY, Mr.
WYDEN, and Ms. MCSALLY):
S. Res. 125. A resolution designating March
2019 as ‘‘National Women’s History Month’’;
considered and agreed to.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
TESTER, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. JONES, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. KING, Ms. WARREN, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. CARPER, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
KAINE, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. SANDERS, Ms. BALDWIN, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. BENNET, Mr. REED, Mr.
BOOKER, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. HIRONO, Ms. ROSEN, Ms.
SINEMA, and Ms. HARRIS):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.029 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2044 March 27, 2019
S. Res. 126. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of the week of March 25
through March 29, 2019, as ‘‘Public Schools
Week’’; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. CAS-
SIDY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BROWN,
Ms. HASSAN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. CARPER,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. REED, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. KING, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. COLLINS, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MANCHIN,
Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, Mr. WICKER, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. TESTER, Mr. PETERS, Mr. BENNET,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and
Ms. WARREN):
S. Res. 127. A resolution recognizing the
contributions of AmeriCorps members and
alumni to the lives of the people of the
United States; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. CARDIN,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. LANKFORD):
S. Con. Res. 9. A concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that tax-ex-
empt fraternal benefit societies have histori-
cally provided and continue to provide crit-
ical benefits to the people and communities
of the United States; to the Committee on
Finance.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 16
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
16, a bill to amend title VII of the Tar-
iff Act of 1930 to provide for the treat-
ment of core seasonal industries af-
fected by antidumping or counter-
vailing duty investigations, and for
other purposes.
S. 164
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) and the Senator from
Arizona (Ms. SINEMA) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 164, a bill to amend title
10, United States Code, to remove the
prohibition on eligibility for TRICARE
Reserve Select of members of the re-
serve components of the Armed Forces
who are eligible to enroll in a health
benefits plan under chapter 89 of title
5, United States Code.
S. 175
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 175, a bill to improve agricul-
tural job opportunities, benefits, and
security for aliens in the United
States, and for other purposes.
S. 177
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 177, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small
Business Act to expand the availability
of employee stock ownership plans in S
corporations, and for other purposes.
S. 257
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 257, a bill to provide for rental as-
sistance for homeless or at-risk Indian
veterans, and for other purposes.
S. 323
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 323, a bill to direct the Sec-
retary of Education to establish the
Recognition Inspiring School Employ-
ees (RISE) Program recognizing excel-
lence exhibited by classified school em-
ployees providing services to students
in prekindergarten through high
school.
S. 365
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 365, a bill to amend section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962 to require
the Secretary of Defense to initiate in-
vestigations and to provide for congres-
sional disapproval of certain actions,
and for other purposes.
S. 373
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN), the Senator
from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH) and the
Senator from Washington (Mrs. MUR-
RAY) were added as cosponsors of S. 373,
a bill to provide for the retention and
service of transgender individuals in
the Armed Forces.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
479, a bill to revise section 48 of title 18,
United States Code, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 521
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Senator
from New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) were
added as cosponsors of S. 521, a bill to
amend title II of the Social Security
Act to repeal the Government pension
offset and windfall elimination provi-
sions.
S. 559
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 559, a bill to amend the Family
and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to pro-
vide leave because of the death of a son
or daughter.
S. 567
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT), the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) and the Senator
from Maine (Ms. COLLINS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 567, a bill clarifying
that it is United States policy to recog-
nize Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan
Heights.
S. 595
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 595, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for the coordination of pro-
grams to prevent and treat obesity,
and for other purposes.
S. 651
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 651, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the
age requirement with respect to eligi-
bility for qualified ABLE programs.
S. 665
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 665, a bill to reduce the number of
preventable deaths and injuries caused
by underride crashes, to improve motor
carrier and passenger motor vehicle
safety, and for other purposes.
S. 708
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 708, a bill to amend the Animal
Welfare Act to limit experimentation
on cats.
S. 726
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
726, a bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to ensure the
safety of cosmetics.
S. 741
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) and the Senator from
Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) were
added as cosponsors of S. 741, a bill to
amend the Public Health Service Act
to require group and individual health
insurance coverage and group health
plans to provide for cost sharing for
oral anticancer drugs on terms no less
favorable than the cost sharing pro-
vided for anticancer medications ad-
ministered by a health care provider.
S. 743
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 743, a bill to award a Con-
gressional Gold Medal to the soldiers of
the 5307th Composite Unit (Provi-
sional), commonly known as ‘‘Merrill’s
Marauders’’ , in recognition of their
bravery and outstanding service in the
jungles of Burma during World War II.
S. 750
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES), the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. BROWN), the Senator from West
Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO), the Senator
from Michigan (Ms. STABENOW), the
Senator from Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH), the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH), the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. WICKER) and the Senator
from Montana (Mr. TESTER) were added
as cosponsors of S. 750, a bill to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to
permanently extend the new markets
tax credit, and for other purposes.
S. 753
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 753, a bill to amend title
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.031 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2045
March 27, 2019
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
count a period of receipt of outpatient
observation services in a hospital to-
ward satisfying the 3-day inpatient
hospital requirement for coverage of
skilled nursing facility services under
Medicare.
S. 771
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) and the Senator from Mis-
souri (Mr. HAWLEY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 771, a bill to amend sec-
tion 21 of the Small Business Act to re-
quire cyber certification for small busi-
ness development center counselors,
and for other purposes.
S. 772
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 772, a bill to require an annual re-
port on the cybersecurity of the Small
Business Administration, and for other
purposes.
S. 785
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 785, a bill to improve mental
health care provided by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, and for other
purposes.
S. 816
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
816, a bill to amend the Natural Gas
Act to expedite approval of exports of
small volumes of natural gas, and for
other purposes.
S. 818
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
818, a bill to exempt certain 16- and 17-
year-old individuals employed in log-
ging operations from child labor laws.
S. 824
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) and the Senator from
Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS) were added as
cosponsors of S. 824, a bill to increase
the number of States that may conduct
Medicaid demonstration programs to
improve access to community mental
health services.
S. 851
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY), the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) and the Senator
from Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY) were added
as cosponsors of S. 851, a bill to direct
the Secretary of Labor to issue an oc-
cupational safety and health standard
that requires covered employers within
the health care and social service in-
dustries to develop and implement a
comprehensive workplace violence pre-
vention plan, and for other purposes.
S. 854
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL) and the Senator from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. CASEY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 854, a bill to require
human rights certifications for arms
sales, and for other purposes.
S. 862
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 862, a bill to repeal the sunset for
collateral requirements for Small Busi-
ness Administration disaster loans.
S. 865
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 865, a bill to amend the Oil Pollu-
tion Act of 1990 to establish an oil spill
response and prevention grant program
and provide for advances from the Oil
Spill Liability Trust Fund, to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to
extend and modify the application of
the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund fi-
nancing rate, and for other purposes.
S. 879
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 879, a bill to provide a process for
granting lawful permanent resident
status to aliens from certain countries
who meet specified eligibility require-
ments, and for other purposes.
S.J. RES. 14
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S.J. Res. 14, a joint resolution pro-
posing an amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States to require
that the Supreme Court of the United
States be composed of not more than 9
justices.
S. RES. 78
At the request of Mr. PERDUE, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. Res. 78, a resolution recognizing the
national debt as a threat to national
security.
S. RES. 85
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. Res. 85, a resolution recognizing the
100th anniversary of the founding of
Easterseals, a leading advocate and
service provider for children and adults
with disabilities, including veterans
and older adults, and their caregivers
and families.
S. RES. 112
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
names of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) and the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. MORAN) were added
as cosponsors of S. Res. 112, a resolu-
tion expressing the sense of the Senate
that the United States condemns all
forms of violence against children glob-
ally and recognizes the harmful im-
pacts of violence against children.
S. RES. 118
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were added
as cosponsors of S. Res. 118, a resolu-
tion recognizing the importance of pay-
ing tribute to those individuals who
have faithfully served and retired from
the Armed Forces of the United States,
designating April 18, 2019, as ‘‘Military
Retiree Appreciation Day’’ , and en-
couraging the people of the United
States to honor the past and continued
service of military retirees to their
local communities and the United
States.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN), the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN), the Senator from Wash-
ington (Ms. CANTWELL), the Senator
from Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH),
the Senator from New Hampshire (Ms.
HASSAN), the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) and the Senator
from Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 120, a
resolution opposing efforts to
delegitimize the State of Israel and the
Global Boycott, Divestment, and Sanc-
tions Movement targeting Israel.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and
Mr. COTTON):
S. 890. A bill to authorize the Ser-
geant at Arms to protect the personal
technology devices and accounts of
Senators and covered employees from
cyber attacks and hostile information
collection activities, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Rules and
Administration.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I,
along with my colleague Senator COT-
TON from Arkansas, am introducing the
Senate Cybersecurity Protection Act
to defend the integrity of American de-
mocracy by providing cybersecurity
protection for the personal accounts
and electronic devices of Senators and
and key members of their staff.
In 2016, hackers working for the Rus-
sian government broke into a range of
targets, including the network of the
Democratic National Committee and
the email account of Senator Hillary
Clinton’s presidential campaign man-
ager, John Podesta. These widely pub-
licized breaches are only the tip of the
iceberg. These hacks are widely known
today because the emails stolen from
these accounts were subsequently
weaponized and used as part of a cam-
paign to influence the outcome of sev-
eral elections—most publicly, the pres-
idential race between Donald Trump
and Hillary Clinton, but also U.S.
House of Representatives races in Illi-
nois, New Hampshire, New Mexico,
North Carolina, Ohio, and Pennsyl-
vania. Senator LINDSEY GRAHAM also
reported that his campaign’s email was
successfully compromised.
While the Russian hacks in 2016 were
a watershed moment, these are merely
the most visible and disruptive exam-
ples of foreign intelligence services
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.037 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2046 March 27, 2019
using offensive cyber capabilities to
target those involved in our political
process. Senior officials from the 2008
Obama and McCain presidential cam-
paigns have publicly confirmed that
both organizations were compromised
by hackers. In 2017, the media reported
that then-White House Chief of Staff
John Kelly’s personal cell phone had
been compromised, possibly for as long
as ten months before the malware was
discovered. And in 2018, media reports
revealed that the personal email ac-
counts of senior congressional staffers
had been targeted by the notorious
Russian hacking group ‘‘Fancy-Bear.’’
These and other events clearly dem-
onstrate the unique threats faced by
Senators and their staff. Unfortu-
nately, as I revealed in a letter to Sen-
ate leadership last year, the Sergeant
At Arms (SAA), which is responsible
for the Senate’s cybersecurity, in-
formed me that it currently lacks the
authority to use official Senate re-
sources to protect the personal devices
and accounts of Senators and key Sen-
ate staff, even when those staff are
being targeted by foreign governments.
Senators COTTON and I are not alone
in recognizing the seriousness of this
national security threat.
Last year, then-Director of the Na-
tional Security Agency Admiral Mi-
chael Rogers acknowledged in a letter
to me that personal devices and ac-
counts of senior U.S. government offi-
cials ‘‘remain prime targets for exploi-
tation.’’ Likewise, in written responses
to post-hearing questions from the
Senate Intelligence Committee last
year, Director of National Intelligence
Dan Coats wrote that ‘‘[t]he personal
accounts and devices of government of-
ficials can contain information that is
useful for our adversaries to target, ei-
ther directly or indirectly, these offi-
cials and the organizations with which
they are affiliated.’’ The Appropria-
tions Committee also noted last year
in its report accompanying the 2019
Legislative Branch Appropriations bill
that it ‘‘continues to be concerned that
Senators are being targeted for hack-
ing and cyber attacks, especially via
their personal devices and accounts.’’
Currently, Senators and staffers are
expected to protect their own devices
and accounts from foreign government
hackers. This is absurd. Senators and
the vast majority of their staff are not
cybersecurity experts, and certainly do
not have the training our resources to
defend themselves from sophisticated
foreign intelligence agencies. Eric
Rosenbach, who was formerly Chief of
Staff to Secretary of Defense Ash Car-
ter, has endorsed the bill we are intro-
ducing today, observing that ‘‘Senators
and their staff should not be expected
to go toe to toe with some of the most
sophisticated adversaries in cyber-
space; authorizing protection of per-
sonal accounts is a critical component
of our cyber defense efforts.’’ Likewise,
Bruce Schreier, a noted cybersecurity
expert has also endorsed the bill, stat-
ing that ‘‘[i]t is ludicrous to expect in-
dividual senators and their staff to to
defend themselves from spies and hack-
ers. Hostile foreign intelligence serv-
ices do not respect the arbitrary line
between work and personal technology.
As such, the U.S. government must ex-
tend its defensive cyber perimeter to
include legislators’ personal devices
and accounts.’’
Our bill would permit the SAA to
provide voluntary, opt-in cybersecurity
assistance to Senators and key Senate
staff to secure their personal devices
and accounts. Any Senate staffer would
be eligible to receive assistance, pro-
vided that the Senator employing them
determines that they are highly vul-
nerable to cyber attacks and informa-
tion collection because of their posi-
tion in the Senate.
There is precedent for extending cy-
bersecurity protection to the personal
devices of government officials. Sec-
tion 1645 of the 2017 National Defense
Authorization Act permits the Sec-
retary of Defense to provide personal
device cybersecurity assistance to offi-
cials whom the secretary ‘‘determines
to be highly vulnerable to cyber at-
tacks and hostile information collec-
tion activities because of the positions
occupied by such personnel in the De-
partment.’’ The Senate Cybersecurity
Protection Act is also similar to provi-
sions included in the intelligence au-
thorization bill approved by the Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence in
2018, which would permit the Director
of National Intelligence to protect the
personal devices and accounts of high-
risk staff in the intelligence commu-
nity.
Passage of this common sense, bipar-
tisan legislation would provide Sen-
ators and their staff with much-needed
protection for their personal accounts
and devices, and with them, the integ-
rity of American democracy. I thank
my colleague Senator COTTON for his
efforts on this bill, and hope the Senate
will promptly pass this vital legisla-
tion.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. COONS, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
KAINE, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ, and Mr.
REED):
S. 894. A bill to authorize dedicated
domestic terrorism offices within the
Department of Homeland Security, the
Department of Justice, and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation to analyze and
monitor domestic terrorist activity
and require the Federal Government to
take steps to prevent domestic ter-
rorism; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 894
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Domestic
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) White supremacists and other far-right-
wing extremists are the most significant do-
mestic terrorism threat facing the United
States.
(2) On February 22, 2019, a Trump Adminis-
tration United States Department of Justice
official wrote in a New York Times op-ed
that ‘‘white supremacy and far-right extre-
mism are among the greatest domestic-secu-
rity threats facing the United States. Re-
grettably, over the past 25 years, law en-
forcement, at both the Federal and State
levels, has been slow to respond. . . .Killings
committed by individuals and groups associ-
ated with far-right extremist groups have
risen significantly.’’.
(3) An April 2017 Government Account-
ability Office report on the significant, le-
thal threat posed by domestic violent ex-
tremists explained that ‘‘[s]ince September
12, 2001, the number of fatalities caused by
domestic violent extremists has ranged from
1 to 49 in a given year.’’ The report noted:
‘‘[F]atalities resulting from attacks by far
right wing violent extremists have exceeded
those caused by radical Islamist violent ex-
tremists in 10 of the 15 years, and were the
same in 3 of the years since September 12,
2001. Of the 85 violent extremist incidents
that resulted in death since September 12,
2001, far right wing violent extremist groups
were responsible for 62 (73 percent) while rad-
ical Islamist violent extremists were respon-
sible for 23 (27 percent).’’.
(4) An unclassified May 2017 joint intel-
ligence bulletin from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the Department of Home-
land Security found that ‘‘white supremacist
extremism poses [a] persistent threat of le-
thal violence,’’ and that White supremacists
‘‘were responsible for 49 homicides in 26 at-
tacks from 2000 to 2016 . . . more than any
other domestic extremist movement’’.
(5) Fatal terrorist attacks by far-right-
wing extremists include—
(A) the August 5, 2012, mass shooting at a
Sikh gurdwara in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, in
which a White supremacist shot and killed 6
members of the gurdwara;
(B) the April 13, 2014, mass shooting at a
Jewish community center and a Jewish as-
sisted living facility in Overland Park, Kan-
sas, in which a neo-Nazi shot and killed 3 ci-
vilians, including a 14-year-old teenager;
(C) the June 8, 2014, ambush in Las Vegas,
Nevada, in which 2 supporters of the far-
right-wing ‘‘patriot’’ movement shot and
killed 2 police officers and a civilian;
(D) the June 17, 2015, mass shooting at the
Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South
Carolina, in which a White supremacist shot
and killed 9 members of the church;
(E) the November 27, 2015, mass shooting at
a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado
Springs, Colorado, in which an anti-abortion
extremist shot and killed a police officer and
2 civilians;
(F) the March 20, 2017, murder of an Afri-
can-American man in New York City, alleg-
edly committed by a White supremacist who
reportedly traveled to New York ‘‘for the
purpose of killing black men’’;
(G) the May 26, 2017, attack in Portland,
Oregon, in which a White supremacist alleg-
edly murdered 2 men and injured a third
after the men defended 2 young women whom
the individual had targeted with anti-Mus-
lim hate speech;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.045 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2047
March 27, 2019
(H) the August 12, 2017, attack in Char-
lottesville, Virginia, in which a White su-
premacist killed one and injured nineteen
after driving his car through a crowd of indi-
viduals protesting a neo-Nazi rally, and of
which former Attorney General Jeff Sessions
said, ‘‘It does meet the definition of domestic
terrorism in our statute.’’;
(I) the July 2018 murder of an African-
American woman from Kansas City, Mis-
souri, allegedly committed by a White su-
premacist who reportedly bragged about
being a member of the Ku Klux Klan;
(J) the October 24, 2018, shooting in
Jeffersontown, Kentucky, in which a White
man allegedly murdered 2 African Americans
at a grocery store after first attempting to
enter a church with a predominantly Afri-
can-American congregation during a service;
and
(K) the October 27, 2018, mass shooting at
the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, in which a White nationalist
allegedly shot and killed 11 members of the
congregation.
(6) In November 2018, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation released its annual hate crime
incident report, which found that in 2017,
hate crimes increased by approximately 17
percent, including a 23-percent increase in
religion-based hate crimes, an 18-percent in-
crease in race-based crimes, and a 5-percent
increase in crimes directed against LGBT in-
dividuals. The total number of reported hate
crimes rose for the third consecutive year.
The previous year’s report found that in 2016,
hate crimes increased by almost 5 percent,
including a 19-percent rise in hate crimes
against American Muslims; additionally, of
the hate crimes motivated by religious bias
in 2016, 53 percent were anti-Semitic. Simi-
larly, the report analyzing 2015 data found
that hate crimes increased by 6 percent that
year. Much of the 2015 increase came from a
66-percent rise in attacks on American Mus-
lims and a 9-percent rise in attacks on Amer-
ican Jews. In all three reports, race-based
crimes were most numerous, and those
crimes most often targeted African Ameri-
cans.
(7) On March 15, 2019, a White nationalist
was arrested and charged with murder after
allegedly killing 50 Muslim worshippers and
injuring more than 40 in a massacre at the
Al Noor Mosque and Linwood Mosque in
Christchurch, New Zealand. The alleged
shooter posted a hate-filled, xenophobic
manifesto that detailed his White nation-
alist ideology before the massacre. Prime
Minister Jacinda Ardern labeled the mas-
sacre a terrorist attack.
(8) In January 2017, a right-wing extremist
who had expressed anti-Muslim views was
charged with murder for allegedly killing 6
people and injuring 19 in a shooting rampage
at a mosque in Quebec City, Canada. It was
the first-ever mass shooting at a mosque in
North America, and Prime Minister Trudeau
labeled it a terrorist attack.
(9) On February 15, 2019, Federal authori-
ties arrested U.S. Coast Guard Lieutenant
Christopher Paul Hasson, who was allegedly
planning to kill a number of prominent jour-
nalists, professors, judges, and ‘‘leftists in
general’’. In court filings, prosecutors de-
scribed Lieutenant Hasson as a ‘‘domestic
terrorist’’ who in an email ‘‘identified him-
self as a White Nationalist for over 30 years
and advocated for ‘focused violence’ in order
to establish a white homeland.’’.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act—
(1) the term ‘‘Director’’ means the Director
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
(2) the term ‘‘domestic terrorism’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 2331 of
title 18, United States Code, except that it
does not include acts perpetrated by individ-
uals associated with or inspired by—
(A) a foreign person or organization des-
ignated as a foreign terrorist organization
under section 219 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189);
(B) an individual or organization des-
ignated under Executive Order 13224 (50
U.S.C. 1701 note); or
(C) a state sponsor of terrorism as deter-
mined by the Secretary of State under sec-
tion 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of
1979 (50 U.S.C. 4605), section 40 of the Arms
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780), or sec-
tion 620A of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371);
(3) the term ‘‘Domestic Terrorism Execu-
tive Committee’’ means the committee with-
in the Department of Justice tasked with as-
sessing and sharing information about ongo-
ing domestic terrorism threats;
(4) the term ‘‘hate crime incident’’ means
an act described in section 245, 247, or 249 of
title 18, United States Code, or in section 901
of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C.
3631);
(5) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security; and
(6) the term ‘‘uniformed services’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 101(a) of
title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 4. OFFICES TO COMBAT DOMESTIC TER-
RORISM.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF OFFICES TO MONITOR,
ANALYZE, INVESTIGATE, AND PROSECUTE DO-
MESTIC TERRORISM.—
(1) DOMESTIC TERRORISM UNIT.—There is au-
thorized a Domestic Terrorism Unit in the
Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the De-
partment of Homeland Security, which shall
be responsible for monitoring and analyzing
domestic terrorism activity.
(2) DOMESTIC TERRORISM OFFICE.—There is
authorized a Domestic Terrorism Office in
the Counterterrorism Section of the Na-
tional Security Division of the Department
of Justice—
(A) which shall be responsible for inves-
tigating and prosecuting incidents of domes-
tic terrorism; and
(B) which shall be headed by the Domestic
Terrorism Counsel.
(3) DOMESTIC TERRORISM SECTION OF THE
FBI.—There is authorized a Domestic Ter-
rorism Section within the Counterterrorism
Division of the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, which shall be responsible for inves-
tigating domestic terrorism activity.
(4) STAFFING.—The Secretary, the Attor-
ney General, and the Director shall each en-
sure that the offices authorized under this
section in their respective agencies shall
have adequate staff to perform the required
duties.
(b) JOINT REPORT ON DOMESTIC TER-
RORISM.—
(1) ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, and each year thereafter, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, the Attorney
General, and the Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation shall submit a joint re-
port authored by the domestic terrorism of-
fices authorized under paragraphs (1), (2),
and (3) of subsection (a) to—
(A) the Committee on the Judiciary, the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs, and the Select Committee
on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on the Judiciary, the
Committee on Homeland Security, and the
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
of the House of Representatives.
(2) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A) an assessment of the domestic ter-
rorism threat posed by White supremacists
and neo-Nazis, including White supremacist
and neo-Nazi infiltration of Federal, State,
and local law enforcement agencies and the
uniformed services; and
(B)(i) in the first report, an analysis of in-
cidents or attempted incidents of domestic
terrorism that have occurred in the United
States since April 19, 1995; and
(ii) in each subsequent report, an analysis
of incidents or attempted incidents of do-
mestic terrorism that occurred in the United
States during the preceding year; and
(C) a quantitative analysis of domestic ter-
rorism for the preceding year, including the
number of—
(i) domestic terrorism related assessments
initiated by the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, including the number of assessments
from each classification and subcategory;
(ii) domestic terrorism-related preliminary
investigations initiated by the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, including the number
of preliminary investigations from each clas-
sification and subcategory, and how many
preliminary investigations resulted from as-
sessments;
(iii) domestic terrorism-related full inves-
tigations initiated by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, including the number of full
investigations from each classification and
subcategory, and how many full investiga-
tions resulted from preliminary investiga-
tions and assessments;
(iv) domestic terrorism-related incidents,
including the number of incidents from each
classification and subcategory, the number
of deaths and injuries resulting from each in-
cident, and a detailed explanation of each in-
cident;
(v) Federal domestic terrorism-related ar-
rests, including the number of arrests from
each classification and subcategory, and a
detailed explanation of each arrest;
(vi) Federal domestic terrorism-related in-
dictments, including the number of indict-
ments from each classification and sub-
category, and a detailed explanation of each
indictment;
(vii) Federal domestic terrorism-related
prosecutions, including the number of inci-
dents from each classification and sub-
category, and a detailed explanation of each
prosecution;
(viii) Federal domestic terrorism-related
convictions, including the number of convic-
tions from each classification and sub-
category, and a detailed explanation of each
conviction; and
(ix) Federal domestic terrorism-related
weapons recoveries, including the number of
each type of weapon and the number of weap-
ons from each classification and sub-
category.
(3) HATE CRIMES.—In compiling a joint re-
port under this subsection, the domestic ter-
rorism offices authorized under paragraphs
(1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a) shall, in con-
sultation with the Civil Rights Division of
the Department of Justice and the Civil
Rights Unit of the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation, review each hate crime incident re-
ported during the preceding year to deter-
mine whether the incident also constitutes a
domestic terrorism-related incident.
(4) CLASSIFICATION AND PUBLIC RELEASE.—
Each report submitted under paragraph (1)
shall be—
(A) unclassified, to the greatest extent pos-
sible, with a classified annex only if nec-
essary; and
(B) in the case of the unclassified portion
of the report, posted on the public websites
of the Department of Homeland Security,
the Department of Justice, and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
(c) DOMESTIC TERRORISM EXECUTIVE COM-
MITTEE.—There is authorized a Domestic
Terrorism Executive Committee, which
shall—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.042 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2048 March 27, 2019
(1) meet on a regular basis, and not less
regularly than 4 times each year, to coordi-
nate with United States Attorneys and other
key public safety officials across the country
to promote information sharing and ensure
an effective, responsive, and organized joint
effort to combat domestic terrorism; and
(2) be co-chaired by—
(A) the Domestic Terrorism Counsel au-
thorized under subsection (a)(2)(B);
(B) a United States Attorney or Assistant
United States Attorney;
(C) a member of the National Security Di-
vision of the Department of Justice; and
(D) a member of the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation.
(d) FOCUS ON GREATEST THREATS.—The do-
mestic terrorism offices authorized under
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a)
shall focus their limited resources on the
most significant domestic terrorism threats,
as determined by the number of domestic
terrorism-related incidents from each cat-
egory and subclassification in the joint re-
port for the preceding year required under
subsection (b).
SEC. 5. TRAINING TO COMBAT DOMESTIC TER-
RORISM.
(a) REQUIRED TRAINING AND RESOURCES.—
The Secretary, the Attorney General, and
the Director shall review the anti-terrorism
training and resource programs of their re-
spective agencies that are provided to Fed-
eral, State, local, and Tribal law enforce-
ment agencies, including the State and
Local Anti-Terrorism Program that is fund-
ed by the Bureau of Justice Assistance of the
Department of Justice, and ensure that such
programs include training and resources to
assist State, local, and Tribal law enforce-
ment agencies in understanding, detecting,
deterring, and investigating acts of domestic
terrorism and White supremacist and neo-
Nazi infiltration of law enforcement agen-
cies. The domestic-terrorism training shall
focus on the most significant domestic ter-
rorism threats, as determined by the quan-
titative analysis in the joint report required
under section 4(b).
(b) REQUIREMENT.—Any individual who pro-
vides domestic terrorism training required
under this section shall have—
(1) expertise in domestic terrorism; and
(2) relevant academic, law enforcement, or
other experience in matters related to do-
mestic terrorism.
(c) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act and once
each year thereafter, the Secretary, the At-
torney General, and the Director shall each
submit an annual report to the committees
of Congress described in section 4(b)(1) on the
domestic terrorism training implemented by
their respective agencies under this section,
which shall include copies of all training ma-
terials used and the names and qualifications
of the individuals who provide the training.
(2) CLASSIFICATION AND PUBLIC RELEASE.—
Each report submitted under paragraph (1)
shall be—
(A) unclassified, to the greatest extent pos-
sible, with a classified annex only if nec-
essary; and
(B) in the case of the unclassified portion
of each report, posted on the public website
of the Department of Homeland Security,
the Department of Justice, and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.
SEC. 6. COMBATTING DOMESTIC TERRORISM
THROUGH JOINT TERRORISM TASK
FORCES AND FUSION CENTERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The joint terrorism task
forces of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and State, local, and regional fusion centers,
as established under section 210A of the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
124h), shall each, in coordination with the
Domestic Terrorism Executive Committee
and the domestic terrorism offices author-
ized under paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of sec-
tion 4(a) of this Act—
(1) share intelligence to address domestic
terrorism activities;
(2) conduct an annual, intelligence-based
assessment of domestic terrorism activities
in their jurisdictions; and
(3) formulate and execute a plan to address
and combat domestic terrorism activities in
their jurisdictions.
(b) REQUIREMENT.—The activities required
under subsection (a) shall focus on the most
significant domestic terrorism threats, as
determined by the number of domestic ter-
rorism-related incidents from each category
and subclassification in the joint report for
the preceding year required under section
4(b).
SEC. 7. INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Attorney General,
the Director, the Secretary, and the Sec-
retary of Defense shall establish an inter-
agency task force to combat White suprema-
cist and neo-Nazi infiltration of the uni-
formed services.
SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Department of Justice, the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, the Department of
Homeland Security, and the Department of
Defense such sums as may be necessary to
carry out this Act.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and
Ms. STABENOW):
S. 895. A bill to provide for a perma-
nent extension of the enforcement in-
struction on supervision requirements
for outpatient therapeutic services in
critical access and small rural hos-
pitals; to the Committee on Finance.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 895
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Rural Hos-
pital Regulatory Relief Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PERMANENT EXTENSION OF ENFORCE-
MENT INSTRUCTION ON SUPER-
VISION REQUIREMENTS FOR OUT-
PATIENT THERAPEUTIC SERVICES
IN CRITICAL ACCESS AND SMALL
RURAL HOSPITALS.
Section 1834 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1395m) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
‘‘(x) PERMANENT EXTENSION OF ENFORCE-
MENT INSTRUCTION ON SUPERVISION REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR OUTPATIENT THERAPEUTIC SERV-
ICES IN CRITICAL ACCESS AND SMALL RURAL
HOSPITALS.—On and after the date of the en-
actment of this subsection, the Secretary
shall continue to apply the enforcement in-
struction described in the notice of the Cen-
ters for Medicare & Medicaid Services enti-
tled ‘Enforcement Instruction on Super-
vision Requirements for Outpatient Thera-
peutic Services in Critical Access and Small
Rural Hospitals for CY 2013’, dated November
1, 2012 (providing for an exception to the re-
statement and clarification under the final
rulemaking changes to the Medicare hospital
outpatient prospective payment system and
calendar year 2009 payment rates (published
in the Federal Register on November 18, 2008,
73 Fed. Reg. 68702 through 68704) with respect
to requirements for direct supervision by
physicians for therapeutic hospital out-
patient services) and extended by section 1 of
Public Law 113–198, section 1 of Public Law
114–112, section 16004(a) of the 21st Century
Cures Act (Public Law 114–255), and section
51007 of the Bipartisan Budget Act (Public
Law 115–123), and reinstated for calendar
years 2018 and 2019 under the final rule enti-
tled ‘Medicare Program: Hospital Outpatient
Prospective Payment and Ambulatory Sur-
gical Center Payment Systems and Quality
Reporting Programs’ published on December
14, 2017 (82 Fed. Reg. 59216).’’.
By Mr. KAINE (for himself and
Mr. CARPER):
S. 899. A bill to limit the authority of
the President to modify duty rates for
national security reasons and to limit
the authority of the United States
Trade Representative to impose certain
duties or import restrictions, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, today
Senator CARPER and I introduced the
Reclaiming Congressional Trade Au-
thority Act of 2019. Enacting this bill
would restore the role on Congress in
overseeing international trade matters.
I have been outspoken against the
abuse of executive authorities that
have been delegated to the President.
Congress has a Constitutional power to
oversee international trade. We have
recently seen an abuse of this power, as
with other executive authorities. This
bill would mandate expanded Congres-
sional involvement in international
trade decisions by requiring the Trump
Administration—and future Adminis-
trations—to further analyze, commu-
nicate, and justify tariff actions to
Congress. Congress would then review
new tariffs and if the Administration
used national security to justify the
tariffs’ need, Congress would be re-
quired to approve them.
I am advocating for my colleagues to
consider supporting this bill, especially
as the damaging effects of the ongoing
trade war continue. It’s time for Con-
gress to step in and act on our Con-
stitutional duty.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself and
Mr. TESTER):
S. 900. A bill to designate the commu-
nity-based outpatient clinic of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs in Boze-
man, Montana, as the ‘‘Travis W. At-
kins Department of Veterans Affairs
Clinic’’; to the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs.
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 900
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF TRAVIS W. ATKINS
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS CLINIC IN BOZEMAN, MON-
TANA.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The community-based
outpatient clinic of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs located at 300 North Willson
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.042 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2049
March 27, 2019
Avenue, Bozeman, Montana, shall after the
date of the enactment of this Act be known
and designated as the ‘‘Travis W. Atkins De-
partment of Veterans Affairs Clinic’’ or the
‘‘Travis W. Atkins VA Clinic’’.
(b) REFERENCE.—Any reference in any law,
regulation, map, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the commu-
nity-based outpatient clinic referred to in
subsection (a) shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the Travis W. Atkins Department
of Veterans Affairs Clinic.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself
and Mrs. CAPITO):
S. 906. A bill to improve the manage-
ment of driftnet fishing; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
am pleased to re-introduce the
‘‘Driftnet Modernization and Bycatch
Reduction Act.’’ This legislation would
update the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery
Conservation and Management Act to
phase out the use of harmful drift
gillnets and replace them with more
sustainable fishing gear. I would like
to thank my colleague, Senator CAP-
ITO, for once again co-leading this im-
portant bill.
Drift gillnets, which are approxi-
mately one to one and a half miles
long, are intended to catch swordfish
and thresher shark off the coast of
California. Tragically, nearly 60 other
species are frequently caught and
killed in the nets, including dolphins,
porpoises, whales, sea lions, and sea
turtles. These are known as bycatch.
While some of these species can be
sold, most are wastefully thrown back
into the ocean either dead or seriously
injured.
According to the National Marine
Fisheries Service, these harmful nets
account for 90% of whale and porpoise
species killed in West Coast Fisheries.
In the 1980s, Congress enacted legisla-
tion to end the domestic use of
driftnets approximately 1.5 miles or
longer. Under President George H.W.
Bush, the United States entered bind-
ing international agreements banning
such nets worldwide.
Driftnets are prohibited or are not
utilized off the United States’ Atlantic
and Gulf coasts as well as in Wash-
ington State, Oregon, Alaska, and Ha-
waii. Mexico permanently banned the
use of these nets in the Gulf of Cali-
fornia in 2017.
However, neither domestic nor inter-
national law currently includes the
drift gillnets used in Federal waters off
the coast of California to catch sword-
fish and thresher shark, despite their
significant impact on protected marine
life. This California-based fishery is
the last place in the United States
where these deadly driftnets are al-
lowed.
Last year, the California legislature
passed a bill, subsequently signed into
law by Governor Jerry Brown, to phase
out these large-mesh drift gillnets in
State waters and establish a buyout
program over a four-year period.
The State law requires the California
Department of Fish and Wildlife to es-
tablish a voluntary ‘‘permit transition
program’’ by March 2020 that will com-
pensate fishermen during this transi-
tion process. California has already
dedicated $1 million for the program
and another $1 million is being sought
through a public-private partnership.
Now that these nets are banned in
State waters, our legislation to ban the
nets in Federal waters is more timely
than ever. The ‘‘Driftnet Moderniza-
tion and Bycatch Reduction Act’’
would phase out the use of drift
gillnets over the five years after enact-
ment. The bill also authorizes the De-
partment of Commerce to assist fisher-
men in transitioning from driftnets to
more sustainable gear types, which
studies have shown actually increase
profitability.
Updated fishing gear that could re-
place driftnets is available and has
been successfully deployed in the At-
lantic Ocean and in trials in the Pacific
Ocean. Deep-set buoy gear, for exam-
ple, allows fishermen to more accu-
rately target swordfish and other mar-
ketable species in deep, cold water. The
gear alerts fishermen immediately
when they have fish on the line, so the
fish can be retrieved and delivered to
market quickly, thereby garnering a
higher price.
In a 2016 poll, California voters over-
whelmingly supported efforts to end
the use of drift gillnets to catch sword-
fish, with 87 percent of those surveyed
in a poll commissioned by The Pew
Charitable Trusts agreeing that fisher-
men should use less harmful gear.
Our bill enjoys support from a wide
range of commercial fishing compa-
nies, sportfishing groups, and environ-
mental organizations, including: the
American Sportfishing Association, the
International Game Fish Association,
Coastal Conservation Association of
California, Yamaha USA, Okaiwa Cor-
poration, the Pew Charitable Trusts,
Oceana, Sea Legacy, and Mission Blue.
Our ‘‘Driftnet Modernization and By-
catch Reduction Act’’ will protect val-
uable marine life unique to the West
Coast, including several endangered
species. This bill will also help fisher-
men to provide fresher, more profit-
able, and more sustainable seafood to
American consumers.
I look forward to working with my
colleagues to pass the ‘‘Driftnet Mod-
ernization and Bycatch Reduction
Act.’’ Thank you, Mr. President. I yield
the Floor.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself
and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 908. A bill to provide for an equi-
table management of summer flounder
based on geographic, scientific, and
economic data and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 908
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Fluke Fair-
ness Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Summer flounder is an important eco-
nomic fish stock for commercial and rec-
reational fishermen across the Northeast and
Mid-Atlantic United States.
(2) The Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Con-
servation and Management Act (16 U.S.C.
1801 et seq.) was reauthorized in 2006 and in-
stituted annual catch limits and account-
ability measures for important fish stocks.
(3) That reauthorization prompted fishery
managers to look at alternate management
schemes to rebuild depleted stocks like sum-
mer flounder.
(4) Summer flounder occur in both State
and Federal waters and are managed through
a joint fishery management plan between the
Council and the Commission.
(5) The Council and the Commission de-
cided that each State’s recreational and
commercial harvest limits for summer floun-
der would be based upon landings in previous
years.
(6) These historical landings were based on
flawed data sets that no longer provide fair-
ness or flexibility for fisheries managers to
allocate resources based on the best science.
(7) This allocation mechanism resulted in
an uneven split among the States along the
East Coast which is problematic.
(8) The fishery management plan for sum-
mer flounder does not account for regional
changes in the location of the fluke stock
even though the stock has moved further to
the north and changes in effort by anglers
along the East Coast.
(9) The States have been locked in a man-
agement system based on data collected
from 1981 to 1989, thus, the summer flounder
stock is not being managed using the best
available science and modern fishery man-
agement techniques.
(10) It is in the interest of the Federal Gov-
ernment to establish a new fishery manage-
ment plan for summer flounder that is based
on current geographic, scientific, and eco-
nomic realities.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries
Commission.
(2) COUNCIL.—The term ‘‘Council’’ means
the Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Coun-
cil established under section 302(a) of the
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(a)).
(3) NATIONAL STANDARDS.—The term ‘‘Na-
tional Standards’’ means the national stand-
ards for fishery conservation and manage-
ment set out in section 301(a) of the Magnu-
son-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Man-
agement Act (16 U.S.C. 1851(a)).
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Commerce.
(5) SUMMER FLOUNDER.—The term ‘‘summer
flounder’’ means the species Paralichthys
dentatus.
SEC. 4. SUMMER FLOUNDER MANAGEMENT RE-
FORM.
(a) FISHERY MANAGEMENT PLAN MODIFICA-
TION.—Not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Council shall sub-
mit to the Secretary, and the Secretary may
approve, a modified fishery management
plan for the commercial management of
summer flounder under title III of the Mag-
nuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1851 et seq.) or an
amendment to such plan that—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.048 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2050 March 27, 2019
(1) shall be based on the best scientific in-
formation available;
(2) establishes commercial quotas in direct
proportion to the distribution, abundance,
and location of summer flounder as reflected
by fishery independent surveys conducted by
the National Marine Fisheries Service and
State agencies;
(3) considers regional, coastwide, or other
management measures for summer flounder
that comply with the National Standards;
and
(4) prohibits the establishment of commer-
cial catch quotas for summer flounder on a
State-by-State basis using historical land-
ings data that does not reflect the status of
the summer flounder stock, based on the
most recent scientific information.
(b) CONSULTATION WITH THE COMMISSION.—
In preparing the modified fishery manage-
ment plan or an amendment to such a plan
as described in subsection (a), the Council
shall consult with the Commission to ensure
consistent management throughout the
range of the summer flounder.
(c) FAILURE TO SUBMIT PLAN.—If the Coun-
cil fails to submit a modified fishery man-
agement plan or an amendment to such a
plan as described in subsection (a) that may
be approved by the Secretary, the Secretary
shall prepare and consider such a modified
plan or amendment.
SEC. 5. REPORT.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
approval under section 4 of a modified fish-
ery management plan for the commercial
management of summer flounder or an
amendment to such plan, the Comptroller
General of the United States shall submit to
Congress a report on the implementation of
such modified plan or amendment that in-
cludes an assessment of whether such imple-
mentation complies with the National
Standards.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. BROWN, Mr. SANDERS, Ms.
SMITH, and Mr. KING):
S. 916. A bill to improve Federal ef-
forts with respect to the prevention of
maternal mortality, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 916
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Mothers and
Offspring Mortality and Morbidity Aware-
ness Act’’ or the ‘‘MOMMA’s Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Every year, across the United States,
4,000,000 women give birth, about 700 women
suffer fatal complications during pregnancy,
while giving birth or during the postpartum
period, and 70,000 women suffer near-fatal,
partum-related complications.
(2) The maternal mortality rate is often
used as a proxy to measure the overall
health of a population. While the infant mor-
tality rate in the United States has reached
its lowest point, the risk of death for women
in the United States during pregnancy,
childbirth, or the postpartum period is high-
er than such risk in many other developed
nations. The estimated maternal mortality
rate (per 100,000 live births) for the 48 contig-
uous States and Washington, DC increased
from 18.8 percent in 2000 to 23.8 percent in
2014 to 26.6 percent in 2018. This estimated
rate is on par with such rate for under-
developed nations such as Iraq and Afghani-
stan.
(3) International studies estimate the 2015
maternal mortality rate in the United States
as 26.4 per 100,000 live births, which is almost
twice the 2015 World Health Organization es-
timation of 14 per 100,000 live births.
(4) It is estimated that more than 60 per-
cent of maternal deaths in the United States
are preventable.
(5) According to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, the maternal mor-
tality rate varies drastically for women by
race and ethnicity. There are 12.7 deaths per
100,000 live births for White women, 43.5
deaths per 100,000 live births for African-
American women, and 14.4 deaths per 100,000
live births for women of other ethnicities.
While maternal mortality disparately im-
pacts African-American women, this urgent
public health crisis traverses race, ethnicity,
socioeconomic status, educational back-
ground, and geography.
(6) African-American women are 3 to 4
times more likely to die from causes related
to pregnancy and childbirth compared to
non-Hispanic White women.
(7) The findings described in paragraphs (1)
through (6) are of major concern to research-
ers, academics, members of the business
community, and providers across the obstet-
rical continuum represented by organiza-
tions such as March of Dimes; the
Preeclampsia Foundation; the American Col-
lege of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; the
Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine; the As-
sociation of Women’s Health, Obstetric, and
Neonatal Nurses; the California Maternal
Quality Care Collaborative; Black Women’s
Health Imperative; the National Birth Eq-
uity Collaborative; Black Mamas Matter Al-
liance; EverThrive Illinois; the National As-
sociation of Certified Professional Midwives;
PCOS Challenge: The National Polycystic
Ovary Sundrome Association; and the Amer-
ican College of Nurse Midwives.
(8) Hemorrhage, cardiovascular and coro-
nary conditions, cardiomyopathy, infection,
embolism, mental health conditions,
preeclampsia and eclampsia, polycystic
ovary syndrome, infection and sepsis, and
anesthesia complications are the predomi-
nant medical causes of maternal-related
deaths and complications. Most of these con-
ditions are largely preventable or manage-
able.
(9) Oral health is an important part of
perinatal health. Reducing bacteria in a
woman’s mouth during pregnancy can sig-
nificantly reduce her risk of developing oral
diseases and spreading decay-causing bac-
teria to her baby. Moreover, some evidence
suggests that women with periodontal dis-
ease during pregnancy could be at greater
risk for poor birth outcomes, such as pre-ec-
lampsia, pre-term birth, and low birth
weight. Furthermore, a woman’s oral health
during pregnancy is a good predictor of her
newborn’s oral health, and since mothers can
unintentionally spread oral bacteria to their
babies, putting their children at higher risk
for tooth decay, prevention efforts should
happen even before children are born, as a
matter of pre-pregnancy health and prenatal
care during pregnancy.
(10) The United States has not been able to
submit a formal maternal mortality rate to
international data repositories since 2007.
Thus, no official maternal mortality rate ex-
ists for the United States. There can be no
maternal mortality rate without stream-
lining maternal mortality-related data from
the State level and extrapolating such data
to the Federal level.
(11) In the United States, death reporting
and analysis is a State function rather than
a Federal process. States report all deaths—
including maternal deaths—on a semi-vol-
untary basis, without standardization across
States. While the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention has the capacity and system
for collecting death-related data based on
death certificates, these data are not suffi-
ciently reported by States in an organized
and standard format across States such that
the Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion is able to identify causes of maternal
death and best practices for the prevention
of such death.
(12) Vital statistics systems often under-
estimate maternal mortality and are insuffi-
cient data sources from which to derive a
full scope of medical and social determinant
factors contributing to maternal deaths.
While the addition of pregnancy checkboxes
on death certificates since 2003 have likely
improved States’ abilities to identify preg-
nancy-related deaths, they are not generally
completed by obstetrical providers or per-
sons trained to recognize pregnancy-related
mortality. Thus, these vital forms may be
missing information or may capture incon-
sistent data. Due to varying maternal mor-
tality-related analyses, lack of reliability,
and granularity in data, current maternal
mortality informatics do not fully encap-
sulate the myriad medical and socially de-
terminant factors that contribute to such
high maternal mortality rates within the
United States compared to other developed
nations. Lack of standardization of data and
data sharing across States and between Fed-
eral entities, health networks, and research
institutions keep the Nation in the dark
about ways to prevent maternal deaths.
(13) Having reliable and valid State data
aggregated at the Federal level are critical
to the Nation’s ability to quell surges in ma-
ternal death and imperative for researchers
to identify long-lasting interventions.
(14) Leaders in maternal wellness highly
recommend that maternal deaths be inves-
tigated at the State level first, and that
standardized, streamlined, de-identified data
regarding maternal deaths be sent annually
to the Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention. Such data standardization and col-
lection would be similar in operation and ef-
fect to the National Program of Cancer Reg-
istries of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention and akin to the Confidential
Enquiry in Maternal Deaths Programme in
the United Kingdom. Such a maternal mor-
talities and morbidities registry and surveil-
lance system would help providers, academi-
cians, lawmakers, and the public to address
questions concerning the types of, causes of,
and best practices to thwart, pregnancy-re-
lated or pregnancy-associated mortality and
morbidity.
(15) The United Nations’ Millennium De-
velopment Goal 5a aimed to reduce by 75 per-
cent, between 1990 and 2015, the maternal
mortality rate, yet this metric has not been
achieved. In fact, the maternal mortality
rate in the United States has been estimated
to have more than doubled between 2000 and
2014. Yet, because national data are not fully
available, the United States does not have an
official maternal mortality rate.
(16) Many States have struggled to estab-
lish or maintain Maternal Mortality Review
Committees (referred to in this section as
‘‘MMRC’’). On the State level, MMRCs have
lagged because States have not had the re-
sources to mount local reviews. State-level
reviews are necessary as only the State de-
partments of health have the authority to
request medical records, autopsy reports,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.052 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2051
March 27, 2019
and police reports critical to the function of
the MMRC.
(17) The United Kingdom regards maternal
deaths as a health systems failure and a na-
tional committee of obstetrics experts re-
view each maternal death or near-fatal
childbirth complication. Such committee
also establishes the predominant course of
maternal-related deaths from conditions
such as preeclampsia. Consequently, the
United Kingdom has been able to reduce its
incidence of preeclampsia to less than one in
10,000 women—its lowest rate since 1952.
(18) The United States has no comparable,
coordinated Federal process by which to re-
view cases of maternal mortality, systems
failures, or best practices. Many States have
active MMRCs and leverage their work to
impact maternal wellness. For example, the
State of California has worked extensively
with their State health departments, health
and hospital systems, and research collabo-
rative organizations, including the Cali-
fornia Maternal Quality Care Collaborative
and the Alliance for Innovation on Maternal
Health, to establish MMRCs, wherein such
State has determined the most prevalent
causes of maternal mortality and recorded
and shared data with providers and research-
ers, who have developed and implemented
safety bundles and care protocols related to
preeclampsia, maternal hemorrhage, and the
like. In this way, the State of California has
been able to leverage its maternal mortality
review board system, generate data, and
apply those data to effect changes in mater-
nal care-related protocol. To date, the State
of California has reduced its maternal mor-
tality rate, which is now comparable to the
low rates of the United Kingdom.
(19) Hospitals and health systems across
the United States lack standardization of
emergency obstetrical protocols before, dur-
ing, and after delivery. Consequently, many
providers are delayed in recognizing critical
signs indicating maternal distress that
quickly escalate into fatal or near-fatal
incidences. Moreover, any attempt to ad-
dress an obstetrical emergency that does not
consider both clinical and public health ap-
proaches falls woefully under the mark of ex-
cellent care delivery. State-based maternal
quality collaborative organizations, such as
the California Maternal Quality Care Col-
laborative or entities participating in the
Alliance for Innovation on Maternal Health
(AIM), have formed obstetrical protocols,
tool kits, and other resources to improve
system care and response as they relate to
maternal complications and warning signs
for such conditions as maternal hemorrhage,
hypertension, and preeclampsia.
(20) The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention reports that nearly half of all
maternal deaths occur in the immediate
postpartum period—the 42 days following a
pregnancy—whereas more than one-third of
pregnancy-related or pregnancy-associated
deaths occur while a person is still pregnant.
Yet, for women eligible for the Medicaid pro-
gram on the basis of pregnancy, such Med-
icaid coverage lapses at the end of the month
on which the 60th postpartum day lands.
(21) The experience of serious traumatic
events, such as being exposed to domestic vi-
olence, substance use disorder, or pervasive
racism, can over-activate the body’s stress-
response system. Known as toxic stress, the
repetition of high-doses of cortisol to the
brain, can harm healthy neurological devel-
opment, which can have cascading physical
and mental health consequences, as docu-
mented in the Adverse Childhood Experi-
ences study of the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention.
(22) A growing body of evidence-based re-
search has shown the correlation between
the stress associated with one’s race—the
stress of racism—and one’s birthing out-
comes. The stress of sex and race discrimina-
tion and institutional racism has been dem-
onstrated to contribute to a higher risk of
maternal mortality, irrespective of one’s
gestational age, maternal age, socio-
economic status, or individual-level health
risk factors, including poverty, limited ac-
cess to prenatal care, and poor physical and
mental health (although these are not nomi-
nal factors). African-American women re-
main the most at risk for pregnancy-associ-
ated or pregnancy-related causes of death.
When it comes to preeclampsia, for example,
which is related to obesity, African-Amer-
ican women of normal weight remain the
most at risk of dying during the perinatal
period compared to non-African-American
obese women.
(23) The rising maternal mortality rate in
the United States is driven predominantly
by the disproportionately high rates of Afri-
can-American maternal mortality.
(24) African-American women are 3 to 4
times more likely to die from pregnancy or
maternal-related distress than are White
women, yielding one of the greatest and
most disconcerting racial disparities in pub-
lic health.
(25) Compared to women from other racial
and ethnic demographics, African-American
women across the socioeconomic spectrum
experience prolonged, unrelenting stress re-
lated to racial and gender discrimination,
contributing to higher rates of maternal
mortality, giving birth to low-weight babies,
and experiencing pre-term birth. Racism is a
risk-factor for these aforementioned experi-
ences. This cumulative stress often extends
across the life course and is situated in ev-
eryday spaces where African-American
women establish livelihood. Structural bar-
riers, lack of access to care, and genetic pre-
dispositions to health vulnerabilities exacer-
bate African-American women’s likelihood
to experience poor or fatal birthing out-
comes, but do not fully account for the great
disparity.
(26) African-American women are twice as
likely to experience postpartum depression,
and disproportionately higher rates of
preeclampsia compared to White women.
(27) Racism is deeply ingrained in United
States systems, including in health care de-
livery systems between patients and pro-
viders, often resulting in disparate treat-
ment for pain, irreverence for cultural norms
with respect to health, and dismissiveness.
Research has demonstrated that patients re-
spond more warmly and adhere to medical
treatment plans at a higher degree with pro-
viders of the same race or ethnicity or with
providers with great ability to exercise em-
pathy. However, the provider pool is not
primed with many people of color, nor are
providers (whether student-doctors in train-
ing or licensed practitioners) consistently
required to undergo implicit bias, cultural
competency, or empathy training on a con-
sistent, on-going basis.
SEC. 3. IMPROVING FEDERAL EFFORTS WITH RE-
SPECT TO PREVENTION OF MATER-
NAL MORTALITY.
(a) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR STATES
WITH RESPECT TO REPORTING MATERNAL MOR-
TALITY.—Not later than one year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Director
of the Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention (referred to in this section as the
‘‘Director’’), in consultation with the Admin-
istrator of the Health Resources and Serv-
ices Administration, shall provide technical
assistance to States that elect to report
comprehensive data on maternal mortality,
including oral, mental, and breastfeeding
health information, for the purpose of en-
couraging uniformity in the reporting of
such data and to encourage the sharing of
such data among the respective States.
(b) BEST PRACTICES RELATING TO PREVEN-
TION OF MATERNAL MORTALITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this Act—
(A) the Director, in consultation with rel-
evant patient and provider groups, shall
issue best practices to State maternal mor-
tality review committees on how best to
identify and review maternal mortality
cases, taking into account any data made
available by States relating to maternal
mortality, including data on oral, mental,
and breastfeeding health, and utilization of
any emergency services; and
(B) the Director, working in collaboration
with the Health Resources and Services Ad-
ministration, shall issue best practices to
hospitals, State professional society groups,
and perinatal quality collaboratives on how
best to prevent maternal mortality.
(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For purposes of carrying out this subsection,
there is authorized to be appropriated
$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through
2023.
(c) ALLIANCE FOR INNOVATION ON MATERNAL
HEALTH GRANT PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services (re-
ferred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’), acting through the Associate Ad-
ministrator of the Maternal and Child
Health Bureau of the Health Resources and
Services Administration, shall establish a
grant program to be known as the Alliance
for Innovation on Maternal Health Grant
Program (referred to in this subsection as
‘‘AIM’’) under which the Secretary shall
award grants to eligible entities for the pur-
pose of—
(A) directing widespread adoption and im-
plementation of maternal safety bundles
through collaborative State-based teams;
and
(B) collecting and analyzing process, struc-
ture, and outcome data to drive continuous
improvement in the implementation of such
safety bundles by such State-based teams
with the ultimate goal of eliminating pre-
ventable maternal mortality and severe ma-
ternal morbidity in the United States.
(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—In order to be eligi-
ble for a grant under paragraph (1), an entity
shall—
(A) submit to the Secretary an application
at such time, in such manner, and con-
taining such information as the Secretary
may require; and
(B) demonstrate in such application that
the entity is an interdisciplinary, multi-
stakeholder, national organization with a
national data-driven maternal safety and
quality improvement initiative based on im-
plementation approaches that have been
proven to improve maternal safety and out-
comes in the United States.
(3) USE OF FUNDS.—An eligible entity that
receives a grant under paragraph (1) shall
use such grant funds—
(A) to develop and implement, through a
robust, multi-stakeholder process, maternal
safety bundles to assist States and health
care systems in aligning national, State, and
hospital-level quality improvement efforts
to improve maternal health outcomes, spe-
cifically the reduction of maternal mortality
and severe maternal morbidity;
(B) to ensure, in developing and imple-
menting maternal safety bundles under sub-
paragraph (A), that such maternal safety
bundles—
(i) satisfy the quality improvement needs
of a State or health care system by factoring
in the results and findings of relevant data
reviews, such as reviews conducted by a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.054 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2052 March 27, 2019
State maternal mortality review committee;
and
(ii) address topics such as—
(I) obstetric hemorrhage;
(II) maternal mental health;
(III) the maternal venous system;
(IV) obstetric care for women with sub-
stance use disorders, including opioid use
disorder;
(V) postpartum care basics for maternal
safety;
(VI) reduction of peripartum racial and
ethnic disparities;
(VII) reduction of primary caesarean birth;
(VIII) severe hypertension in pregnancy;
(IX) severe maternal morbidity reviews;
(X) support after a severe maternal mor-
bidity event;
(XI) thromboembolism;
(XII) optimization of support for
breastfeeding; and
(XIII) maternal oral health; and
(C) to provide ongoing technical assistance
at the national and State levels to support
implementation of maternal safety bundles
under subparagraph (A).
(4) MATERNAL SAFETY BUNDLE DEFINED.—
For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘‘maternal safety bundle’’ means standard-
ized, evidence-informed processes for mater-
nal health care.
(5) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For purposes of carrying out this subsection,
there is authorized to be appropriated
$10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023.
(d) FUNDING FOR STATE-BASED PERINATAL
QUALITY COLLABORATIVES DEVELOPMENT AND
SUSTAINABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services (re-
ferred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’), acting through the Division of Re-
productive Health of the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, shall establish a
grant program to be known as the State-
Based Perinatal Quality Collaborative grant
program under which the Secretary awards
grants to eligible entities for the purpose of
development and sustainability of perinatal
quality collaboratives in every State, the
District of Columbia, and eligible territories,
in order to measurably improve perinatal
care and perinatal health outcomes for preg-
nant and postpartum women and their in-
fants.
(2) GRANT AMOUNTS.—Grants awarded
under this subsection shall be in amounts
not to exceed $250,000 per year, for the dura-
tion of the grant period.
(3) STATE-BASED PERINATAL QUALITY COL-
LABORATIVE DEFINED.—For purposes of this
subsection, the term ‘‘State-based perinatal
quality collaborative’’ means a network of
multidisciplinary teams that—
(A) work to improve measurable outcomes
for maternal and infant health by advancing
evidence-informed clinical practices using
quality improvement principles;
(B) work with hospital-based or outpatient
facility-based clinical teams, experts, and
stakeholders, including patients and fami-
lies, to spread best practices and optimize re-
sources to improve perinatal care and out-
comes;
(C) employ strategies that include the use
of the collaborative learning model to pro-
vide opportunities for hospitals and clinical
teams to collaborate on improvement strate-
gies, rapid-response data to provide timely
feedback to hospital and other clinical teams
to track progress, and quality improvement
science to provide support and coaching to
hospital and clinical teams; and
(D) have the goal of improving population-
level outcomes in maternal and infant
health.
(4) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For purposes of carrying out this subsection,
there is authorized to be appropriated
$14,000,000 per year for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024.
(e) EXPANSION OF MEDICAID AND CHIP COV-
ERAGE FOR PREGNANT AND POSTPARTUM
WOMEN.—
(1) REQUIRING COVERAGE OF ORAL HEALTH
SERVICES FOR PREGNANT AND POSTPARTUM
WOMEN.—
(A) MEDICAID.—Section 1905 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d) is amended—
(i) in subsection (a)(4)—
(I) by striking ‘‘; and (D)’’ and inserting ‘‘;
(D)’’; and
(II) by inserting ‘‘; and (E) oral health serv-
ices for pregnant and postpartum women (as
defined in subsection (ee))’’ after ‘‘subsection
(bb))’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(ee) ORAL HEALTH SERVICES FOR PREG-
NANT AND POSTPARTUM WOMEN.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this
title, the term ‘oral health services for preg-
nant and postpartum women’ means dental
services necessary to prevent disease and
promote oral health, restore oral structures
to health and function, and treat emergency
conditions that are furnished to a woman
during pregnancy (or during the 1-year pe-
riod beginning on the last day of the preg-
nancy).
‘‘(2) COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS.—To satisfy
the requirement to provide oral health serv-
ices for pregnant and postpartum women, a
State shall, at a minimum, provide coverage
for preventive, diagnostic, periodontal, and
restorative care consistent with rec-
ommendations for perinatal oral health care
and dental care during pregnancy from the
American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry
and the American College of Obstetricians
and Gynecologists.’’.
(B) CHIP.—Section 2103(c)(5)(A) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397cc(c)(5)(A)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘or a targeted low-in-
come pregnant woman’’ after ‘‘targeted low-
income child’’.
(2) EXTENDING MEDICAID COVERAGE FOR
PREGNANT AND POSTPARTUM WOMEN.—Section
1902 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1396a) is amended—
(A) in subsection (e)—
(i) in paragraph (5)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘(including oral health
services for pregnant and postpartum women
(as defined in section 1905(ee))’’ after
‘‘postpartum medical assistance under the
plan’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘60-day’’ and inserting ‘‘1-
year’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘60-day’’
and inserting ‘‘1-year’’; and
(B) in subsection (l)(1)(A), by striking ‘‘60-
day’’ and inserting ‘‘1-year’’.
(3) EXTENDING MEDICAID COVERAGE FOR LAW-
FUL RESIDENTS.—Section 1903(v)(4)(A) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(v)(4)(A))
is amended by striking ‘‘60-day’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘1-year’’.
(4) EXTENDING CHIP COVERAGE FOR PREG-
NANT AND POSTPARTUM WOMEN.—Section
2112(d)(2)(A) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1397ll(d)(2)(A)) is amended by striking
‘‘60-day’’ and inserting ‘‘1-year’’.
(5) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—
(A) MEDICAID.—Section 1902(l) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(l)) is amended
by adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(5) During the period that begins on the
date of enactment of this paragraph and ends
on the date that is five years after such date
of enactment, as a condition for receiving
any Federal payments under section 1903(a)
for calendar quarters occurring during such
period, a State shall not have in effect, with
respect to women who are eligible for med-
ical assistance under the State plan or under
a waiver of such plan on the basis of being
pregnant or having been pregnant, eligibility
standards, methodologies, or procedures
under the State plan or waiver that are more
restrictive than the eligibility standards,
methodologies, or procedures, respectively,
under such plan or waiver that are in effect
on the date of enactment of this para-
graph.’’.
(B) CHIP.—Section 2105(d) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1397ee(d)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(4) IN ELIGIBILITY STANDARDS FOR TAR-
GETED LOW-INCOME PREGNANT WOMEN.—Dur-
ing the period that begins on the date of en-
actment of this paragraph and ends on the
date that is five years after such date of en-
actment, as a condition of receiving pay-
ments under subsection (a) and section
1903(a), a State that elects to provide assist-
ance to women on the basis of being preg-
nant (including pregnancy-related assistance
provided to targeted low-income pregnant
women (as defined in section 2112(d)), preg-
nancy-related assistance provided to women
who are eligible for such assistance through
application of section 1902(v)(4)(A)(i) under
section 2107(e)(1), or any other assistance
under the State child health plan (or a waiv-
er of such plan) which is provided to women
on the basis of being pregnant) shall not
have in effect, with respect to such women,
eligibility standards, methodologies, or pro-
cedures under such plan (or waiver) that are
more restrictive than the eligibility stand-
ards, methodologies, or procedures, respec-
tively, under such plan (or waiver) that are
in effect on the date of enactment of this
paragraph.’’.
(6) INFORMATION ON BENEFITS.—The Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services shall
make publicly available on the Internet
website of the Department of Health and
Human Services, information regarding ben-
efits available to pregnant and postpartum
women and under the Medicaid program and
the Children’s Health Insurance Program, in-
cluding information on—
(A) benefits that States are required to
provide to pregnant and postpartum women
under such programs;
(B) optional benefits that States may pro-
vide to pregnant and postpartum women
under such programs; and
(C) the availability of different kinds of
benefits for pregnant and postpartum
women, including oral health and mental
health benefits, under such programs.
(7) FEDERAL FUNDING FOR COST OF EXTENDED
MEDICAID AND CHIP COVERAGE FOR
POSTPARTUM WOMEN.—
(A) MEDICAID.—Section 1905 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d), as amended by
paragraph (1), is further amended—
(i) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘and (aa)’’
and inserting ‘‘(aa), and (ff)’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ff) INCREASED FMAP FOR EXTENDED MED-
ICAL ASSISTANCE FOR POSTPARTUM WOMEN.—
Notwithstanding subsection (b), the Federal
medical assistance percentage for a State,
with respect to amounts expended by such
State for medical assistance for a woman
who is eligible for such assistance on the
basis of being pregnant or having been preg-
nant that is provided during the 305-day pe-
riod that begins on the 60/th/ day after the
last day of her pregnancy (including any
such assistance provided during the month
in which such period ends), shall be equal
to—
‘‘(1) 100 percent for the first 20 calendar
quarters during which this subsection is in
effect; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.054 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2053
March 27, 2019
‘‘(2) 90 percent for calendar quarters there-
after.’’.
(B) CHIP.—Section 2105(c) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1397ee(c)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(12) ENHANCED PAYMENT FOR EXTENDED AS-
SISTANCE PROVIDED TO PREGNANT WOMEN.—
Notwithstanding subsection (b), the en-
hanced FMAP, with respect to payments
under subsection (a) for expenditures under
the State child health plan (or a waiver of
such plan) for assistance provided under the
plan (or waiver) to a woman who is eligible
for such assistance on the basis of being
pregnant (including pregnancy-related as-
sistance provided to a targeted low-income
pregnant woman (as defined in section
2112(d)), pregnancy-related assistance pro-
vided to a woman who is eligible for such as-
sistance through application of section
1902(v)(4)(A)(i) under section 2107(e)(1), or
any other assistance under the plan (or waiv-
er) provided to a woman who is eligible for
such assistance on the basis of being preg-
nant) during the 305-day period that begins
on the 60th day after the last day of her preg-
nancy (including any such assistance pro-
vided during the month in which such period
ends), shall be equal to—
‘‘(A) 100 percent for the first 20 calendar
quarters during which this paragraph is in
effect; and
‘‘(B) 90 percent for calendar quarters there-
after.’’.
(8) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the amendments made by this sub-
section shall take effect on the first day of
the first calendar quarter that begins on or
after the date that is one year after the date
of enactment of this Act.
(B) EXCEPTION FOR STATE LEGISLATION.—In
the case of a State plan under title XIX of
the Social Security Act or a State child
health plan under title XXI of such Act that
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
determines requires State legislation in
order for the respective plan to meet any re-
quirement imposed by amendments made by
this subsection, the respective plan shall not
be regarded as failing to comply with the re-
quirements of such title solely on the basis
of its failure to meet such an additional re-
quirement before the first day of the first
calendar quarter beginning after the close of
the first regular session of the State legisla-
ture that begins after the date of enactment
of this Act. For purposes of the previous sen-
tence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year
legislative session, each year of the session
shall be considered to be a separate regular
session of the State legislature.
(f) REGIONAL CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE.—
Part P of title III of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act is amended by adding at the end the
following new section:
‘‘SEC. 399V–7. REGIONAL CENTERS OF EXCEL-
LENCE ADDRESSING IMPLICIT BIAS
AND CULTURAL COMPETENCY IN PA-
TIENT-PROVIDER INTERACTIONS
EDUCATION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this section,
the Secretary, in consultation with such
other agency heads as the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate, shall award cooperative
agreements for the establishment or support
of regional centers of excellence addressing
implicit bias and cultural competency in pa-
tient-provider interactions education for the
purpose of enhancing and improving how
health care professionals are educated in im-
plicit bias and delivering culturally com-
petent health care.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBILITY.—To be eligible to receive
a cooperative agreement under subsection
(a), an entity shall—
‘‘(1) be a public or other nonprofit entity
specified by the Secretary that provides edu-
cational and training opportunities for stu-
dents and health care professionals, which
may be a health system, teaching hospital,
community health center, medical school,
school of public health, dental school, social
work school, school of professional psy-
chology, or any other health professional
school or program at an institution of higher
education (as defined in section 101 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965) focused on the
prevention, treatment, or recovery of health
conditions that contribute to maternal mor-
tality and the prevention of maternal mor-
tality and severe maternal morbidity;
‘‘(2) demonstrate community engagement
and participation, such as through partner-
ships with home visiting and case manage-
ment programs; and
‘‘(3) provide to the Secretary such informa-
tion, at such time and in such manner, as the
Secretary may require.
‘‘(c) DIVERSITY.—In awarding a cooperative
agreement under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary shall take into account any regional
differences among eligible entities and make
an effort to ensure geographic diversity
among award recipients.
‘‘(d) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION.—
‘‘(1) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary
shall make publicly available on the internet
website of the Department of Health and
Human Services information submitted to
the Secretary under subsection (b)(3).
‘‘(2) EVALUATION.—The Secretary shall
evaluate each regional center of excellence
established or supported pursuant to sub-
section (a) and disseminate the findings re-
sulting from each such evaluation to the ap-
propriate public and private entities.
‘‘(3) DISTRIBUTION.—The Secretary shall
share evaluations and overall findings with
State departments of health and other rel-
evant State level offices to inform State and
local best practices.
‘‘(e) MATERNAL MORTALITY DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘maternal mortality’
means death of a woman that occurs during
pregnancy or within the one-year period fol-
lowing the end of such pregnancy.
‘‘(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For purposes of carrying out this section,
there is authorized to be appropriated
$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through
2023.’’.
(g) SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PRO-
GRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN.—
Section 17(d)(3)(A)(ii) of the Child Nutrition
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(d)(3)(A)(ii)) is
amended—
(1) by striking the clause designation and
heading and all that follows through ‘‘A
State’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(ii) WOMEN.—
‘‘(I) BREASTFEEDING WOMEN.—A State’’;
(2) in subclause (I) (as so designated), by
striking ‘‘1 year’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘earlier’’ and inserting ‘‘2 years
postpartum’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(II) POSTPARTUM WOMEN.—A State may
elect to certify a postpartum woman for a
period of 2 years.’’.
(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MATERNAL MORTALITY.—The term ‘‘ma-
ternal mortality’’ means death of a woman
that occurs during pregnancy or within the
one-year period following the end of such
pregnancy.
(2) SEVERE MATERNAL MORBIDITY.—The
term ‘‘severe maternal morbidity’’ includes
unexpected outcomes of labor and delivery
that result in significant short-term or long-
term consequences to a woman’s health.
SEC. 4. INCREASING EXCISE TAXES ON CIGA-
RETTES AND ESTABLISHING EXCISE
TAX EQUITY AMONG ALL TOBACCO
PRODUCT TAX RATES.
(a) TAX PARITY FOR ROLL-YOUR-OWN TO-
BACCO.—Section 5701(g) of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
‘‘$24.78’’ and inserting ‘‘$49.56’’.
(b) TAX PARITY FOR PIPE TOBACCO.—Sec-
tion 5701(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended by striking ‘‘$2.8311 cents’’
and inserting ‘‘$49.56’’.
(c) TAX PARITY FOR SMOKELESS TOBACCO.—
(1) Section 5701(e) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘$1.51’’
and inserting ‘‘$26.84’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘50.33
cents’’ and inserting ‘‘$10.74’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) SMOKELESS TOBACCO SOLD IN DISCRETE
SINGLE-USE UNITS.—On discrete single-use
units, $100.66 per thousand.’’.
(2) Section 5702(m) of such Code is amend-
ed—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘or chew-
ing tobacco’’ and inserting ‘‘, chewing to-
bacco, or discrete single-use unit’’;
(B) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by inserting
‘‘that is not a discrete single-use unit’’ be-
fore the period in each such paragraph; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) DISCRETE SINGLE-USE UNIT.—The term
‘discrete single-use unit’ means any product
containing tobacco that—
‘‘(A) is not intended to be smoked; and
‘‘(B) is in the form of a lozenge, tablet, pill,
pouch, dissolvable strip, or other discrete
single-use or single-dose unit.’’.
(d) TAX PARITY FOR SMALL CIGARS.—Para-
graph (1) of section 5701(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking
‘‘$50.33’’ and inserting ‘‘$100.66’’.
(e) TAX PARITY FOR LARGE CIGARS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (2) of section
5701(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
is amended by striking ‘‘52.75 percent’’ and
all that follows through the period and in-
serting the following: ‘‘$49.56 per pound and a
proportionate tax at the like rate on all frac-
tional parts of a pound but not less than
10.066 cents per cigar.’’.
(2) GUIDANCE.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury, or the Secretary’s delegate, may issue
guidance regarding the appropriate method
for determining the weight of large cigars for
purposes of calculating the applicable tax
under section 5701(a)(2) of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986.
(f) TAX PARITY FOR ROLL-YOUR-OWN TO-
BACCO AND CERTAIN PROCESSED TOBACCO.—
Subsection (o) of section 5702 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting
‘‘, and includes processed tobacco that is re-
moved for delivery or delivered to a person
other than a person with a permit provided
under section 5713, but does not include re-
movals of processed tobacco for exportation’’
after ‘‘wrappers thereof’’.
(g) CLARIFYING TAX RATE FOR OTHER TO-
BACCO PRODUCTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 5701 of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(i) OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS.—Any prod-
uct not otherwise described under this sec-
tion that has been determined to be a to-
bacco product by the Food and Drug Admin-
istration through its authorities under the
Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco
Control Act shall be taxed at a level of tax
equivalent to the tax rate for cigarettes on
an estimated per use basis as determined by
the Secretary.’’.
(2) ESTABLISHING PER USE BASIS.—For pur-
poses of section 5701(i) of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986, not later than 12 months
after the later of the date of the enactment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.054 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2054 March 27, 2019
of this Act or the date that a product has
been determined to be a tobacco product by
the Food and Drug Administration, the Sec-
retary of the Treasury (or the Secretary of
the Treasury’s delegate) shall issue final reg-
ulations establishing the level of tax for such
product that is equivalent to the tax rate for
cigarettes on an estimated per use basis.
(h) CLARIFYING DEFINITION OF TOBACCO
PRODUCTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (c) of section
5702 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(c) TOBACCO PRODUCTS.—The term ‘to-
bacco products’ means—
‘‘(1) cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco,
pipe tobacco, and roll-your-own tobacco, and
‘‘(2) any other product subject to tax pur-
suant to section 5701(i).’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Subsection
(d) of section 5702 of such Code is amended by
striking ‘‘cigars, cigarettes, smokeless to-
bacco, pipe tobacco, or roll-your-own to-
bacco’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘tobacco products’’.
(i) INCREASING TAX ON CIGARETTES.—
(1) SMALL CIGARETTES.—Section 5701(b)(1)
of such Code is amended by striking ‘‘$50.33’’
and inserting ‘‘$100.66’’.
(2) LARGE CIGARETTES.—Section 5701(b)(2)
of such Code is amended by striking
‘‘$105.69’’ and inserting ‘‘$211.38’’.
(j) TAX RATES ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION.—
Section 5701 of such Code, as amended by
subsection (g), is amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
‘‘(j) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any cal-
endar year beginning after 2018, the dollar
amounts provided under this chapter shall
each be increased by an amount equal to—
‘‘(A) such dollar amount, multiplied by
‘‘(B) the cost-of-living adjustment deter-
mined under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar
year, determined by substituting ‘calendar
year 2017’ for ‘calendar year 2016’ in subpara-
graph (A)(ii) thereof.
‘‘(2) ROUNDING.—If any amount as adjusted
under paragraph (1) is not a multiple of $0.01,
such amount shall be rounded to the next
highest multiple of $0.01.’’.
(k) FLOOR STOCKS TAXES.—
(1) IMPOSITION OF TAX.—On tobacco prod-
ucts manufactured in or imported into the
United States which are removed before any
tax increase date and held on such date for
sale by any person, there is hereby imposed
a tax in an amount equal to the excess of—
(A) the tax which would be imposed under
section 5701 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 on the article if the article had been re-
moved on such date, over
(B) the prior tax (if any) imposed under
section 5701 of such Code on such article.
(2) CREDIT AGAINST TAX.—Each person shall
be allowed as a credit against the taxes im-
posed by paragraph (1) an amount equal to
$500. Such credit shall not exceed the
amount of taxes imposed by paragraph (1) on
such date for which such person is liable.
(3) LIABILITY FOR TAX AND METHOD OF PAY-
MENT.—
(A) LIABILITY FOR TAX.—A person holding
tobacco products on any tax increase date to
which any tax imposed by paragraph (1) ap-
plies shall be liable for such tax.
(B) METHOD OF PAYMENT.—The tax imposed
by paragraph (1) shall be paid in such man-
ner as the Secretary shall prescribe by regu-
lations.
(C) TIME FOR PAYMENT.—The tax imposed
by paragraph (1) shall be paid on or before
the date that is 120 days after the effective
date of the tax rate increase.
(4) ARTICLES IN FOREIGN TRADE ZONES.—
Notwithstanding the Act of June 18, 1934
(commonly known as the Foreign Trade
Zone Act, 48 Stat. 998, 19 U.S.C. 81a et seq.),
or any other provision of law, any article
which is located in a foreign trade zone on
any tax increase date shall be subject to the
tax imposed by paragraph (1) if—
(A) internal revenue taxes have been deter-
mined, or customs duties liquidated, with re-
spect to such article before such date pursu-
ant to a request made under the 1st proviso
of section 3(a) of such Act, or
(B) such article is held on such date under
the supervision of an officer of the United
States Customs and Border Protection of the
Department of Homeland Security pursuant
to the 2d proviso of such section 3(a).
(5) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sub-
section—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any term used in this
subsection which is also used in section 5702
of such Code shall have the same meaning as
such term has in such section.
(B) TAX INCREASE DATE.—The term ‘‘tax in-
crease date’’ means the effective date of any
increase in any tobacco product excise tax
rate pursuant to the amendments made by
this section (other than subsection (j) there-
of).
(C) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the Treasury or the
Secretary’s delegate.
(6) CONTROLLED GROUPS.—Rules similar to
the rules of section 5061(e)(3) of such Code
shall apply for purposes of this subsection.
(7) OTHER LAWS APPLICABLE.—All provi-
sions of law, including penalties, applicable
with respect to the taxes imposed by section
5701 of such Code shall, insofar as applicable
and not inconsistent with the provisions of
this subsection, apply to the floor stocks
taxes imposed by paragraph (1), to the same
extent as if such taxes were imposed by such
section 5701. The Secretary may treat any
person who bore the ultimate burden of the
tax imposed by paragraph (1) as the person
to whom a credit or refund under such provi-
sions may be allowed or made.
(l) EFFECTIVE DATES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraphs (2) through (4), the amendments
made by this section shall apply to articles
removed (as defined in section 5702(j) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986) after the last
day of the month which includes the date of
the enactment of this Act.
(2) DISCRETE SINGLE-USE UNITS AND PROC-
ESSED TOBACCO.—The amendments made by
subsections (c)(1)(C), (c)(2), and (f) shall
apply to articles removed (as defined in sec-
tion 5702(j) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986) after the date that is 6 months after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(3) LARGE CIGARS.—The amendments made
by subsection (e) shall apply to articles re-
moved after December 31, 2019.
(4) OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS.—The amend-
ments made by subsection (g)(1) shall apply
to products removed after the last day of the
month which includes the date that the Sec-
retary of the Treasury (or the Secretary of
the Treasury’s delegate) issues final regula-
tions establishing the level of tax for such
product.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 122—OBSERV-
ING THE 25TH ANNIVERSARY OF
THE GENOCIDE IN RWANDA
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. COONS, Mr. MERKLEY, and
Mr. BOOKER) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 122
Whereas 25 years ago, between April and
June 1994, an estimated 800,000 Rwandans,
most of them members of the minority Tutsi
community along with some politically mod-
erate Hutus, were killed in an organized
campaign of genocide;
Whereas up to 2,000,000 people fled Rwanda
as refugees, 1,000,000 were internally dis-
placed, and of the survivors, 75,000 were chil-
dren who lost one or both parents;
Whereas the United Nations Assistance
Mission for Rwanda was dramatically scaled
back as the genocide occurred, with the
United States and other nations failing to
stop the killings;
Whereas the genocide forced Rwandans to
confront core issues of ethnic and national
identity, justice, peace, reconciliation, and
security;
Whereas the people and Government of
Rwanda have taken steps to foster peace and
reconciliation;
Whereas Rwanda’s position on the United
Nations Development Program Human De-
velopment Index continues to steadily im-
prove, although the nation remains one of
the world’s poorest, positioned at 158 out of
189 countries and territories requiring con-
tinued development assistance and support;
and
Whereas the people and Government of the
United States support the people of Rwanda
in their aspirations for continued economic
growth, improved food security, better
health outcomes, protection of biodiversity,
and fully accountable governance: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) solemnly observes the 25th Anniversary
of the genocide in Rwanda, which began on
April 6, 1994;
(2) recognizes the failure of the inter-
national community, including the United
States, to provide urgent assistance in pre-
venting and stopping the genocide;
(3) reaffirms that the people of the United
States will continue to stand with the people
of Rwanda in their ongoing journey towards
reconciliation, peace, and open, inclusive,
and accountable governance;
(4) reaffirms its commitment to the Con-
vention on the Prevention and Punishment
of the Crime of Genocide, done at Paris De-
cember 9, 1948;
(5) supports ongoing efforts to educate the
people of the United States, and around the
world, about the genocide in Rwanda, hoping
to prevent the commission of any such fu-
ture occurrences in Rwanda or elsewhere;
(6) commits to continuing efforts to
strengthen and support Rwandan, United
States, and other international institutions
and tribunals working to bring to justice
those responsible for the genocide; and
(7) calls on the United States Government
and the international community to seize on
the occasion of this anniversary to focus at-
tention on the future of Rwanda, cooperating
to prevent and respond to genocide and
crimes against humanity in nations across
the globe, and to support the people of Rwan-
da so that they may—
(A) be free from future ethnic violence;
(B) experience full civil and human rights,
without fear of violence or intimidation;
(C) peacefully resolve disputes; and
(D) benefit from sustained economic
growth and development, which improves the
health, prosperity and standard of living of
all.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.054 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2055
March 27, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 123—SUP-
PORTING THE NORTH ATLANTIC
TREATY ORGANIZATION AND
RECOGNIZING ITS 70 YEARS OF
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Mr. RISCH (for himself, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. TILLIS, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
JOHNSON, and Mr. MURPHY) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. RES. 123
Resolved,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
The Senate makes the following findings:
(1) The North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion (NATO) was founded on April 4, 1949, to
‘‘safeguard the freedom, common heritage
and civilisation of [its] peoples, founded on
the principles of democracy, individual lib-
erty and the rule of law’’.
(2) The United States Senate approved the
North Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on July 21,
1949, and the United States Government ac-
ceded to membership in NATO on August 24,
1949.
(3) NATO is a community of democracies
that acts collectively to promote freedom,
stability, and peace around the globe.
(4) NATO has continued to welcome into
its membership those nations that have
evinced a desire to partake in the alliance’s
commitment to settle international disputes
peaceably, strengthen their free institutions,
promote conditions of stability and well-
being, and seek to eliminate conflict in their
international economic policies, and which
are dedicated to maintaining and developing
their capacity to resist armed attack.
(5) The sustained commitment of NATO to
mutual defense has made possible the demo-
cratic and economic transformation of Cen-
tral and Eastern Europe.
(6) Lasting stability and security in Europe
requires the further military, economic, and
political integration of emerging democ-
racies into existing European and trans-
atlantic structures.
(7) NATO serves as a force multiplier,
whose command structures, training institu-
tions, and multilateral exercises have gen-
erated unprecedented multinational con-
tributions to United States national security
priorities and enabled European and Cana-
dian soldiers to fight side-by-side with mem-
bers of the United States Armed Forces.
(8) The allies invoked NATO’s Article 5 col-
lective defense clause and offered military
assistance to the United States in respond-
ing to the attacks of September 11, 2001.
(9) NATO member nations stood in support
of the United States after it was attacked on
September 11, 2001, sending tens of thousands
troops to fight alongside American soldiers
in Afghanistan.
(10) NATO is currently involved in several
operations benefiting United States national
security, including Operation Resolute Sup-
port in Afghanistan, NATO’s Kosovo Force
(KFOR), Operation Sea Guardian in the Med-
iterranean Sea (maritime situational aware-
ness, counter-terrorism at sea, and support
to capacity-building), the capacity-building
NATO Mission Iraq, support for African
Union missions, and air policing missions in
the member and nonmember nations of East-
ern Europe.
(11) NATO members have stood against
Russian aggression in Eastern Europe, have
supported United States sanctions on that
country and imposed their own, have re-
sponded, as noted in the NATO Brussels
Summit Declaration of 2018, ‘‘to the deterio-
rated security environment by enhancing
our deterrence and defence posture, includ-
ing by a forward presence in the eastern part
of the Alliance,’’ and have asserted that
‘‘there can be no return to ‘business as usual’
until there is a clear, constructive change in
Russia’s actions that demonstrates compli-
ance with international law and its inter-
national obligations and responsibilities’’.
(12) The NATO Wales Summit Declaration
of 2014 pledged, ‘‘Allies currently meeting
the NATO guideline to spend a minimum of
2% of their Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
on defence will aim to continue to do so. . .
Allies whose current proportion of GDP
spent on defence is below this level will: halt
any decline in defence expenditure; aim to
increase defence expenditure in real terms as
GDP grows; aim to move towards the 2%
guideline within a decade with a view to
meeting their NATO Capability Targets and
filling NATO’s capability shortfalls.’’.
(13) Twenty-two NATO nations have in-
creased their military spending since the
Wales Declaration of 2014.
(14) The NATO Brussels Summit Declara-
tion of 2018 stated, ‘‘We reaffirm our unwav-
ering commitment to all aspects of the
Defence Investment Pledge agreed at the 2014
Wales Summit, and to submit credible na-
tional plans on its implementation, includ-
ing the spending guidelines for 2024, planned
capabilities, and contributions. Fair burden
sharing underpins the Alliance’s cohesion,
solidarity, credibility, and ability to fulfil
our Article 3 and Article 5 commitments. We
welcome the considerable progress made
since the Wales Summit with four consecu-
tive years of real growth in non-US defence
expenditure. All Allies have started to in-
crease the amount they spend on defence in
real terms and some two-thirds of Allies
have national plans in place to spend 2% of
their Gross Domestic Product on defence by
2024. More than half of Allies are spending
more than 20% of their defence expenditures
on major equipment, including related re-
search and development, and, according to
their national plans, 24 Allies will meet the
20% guideline by 2024. Allies are delivering
more of the heavier, high-end capabilities we
require and are improving the readiness,
deployability, sustainability, and interoper-
ability of their forces.’’.
(15) NATO Secretary General Jens
Stoltenberg has stated, ‘‘By the end of next
year, NATO allies will add . . . 100 billion
extra U.S. dollars toward defense.’’.
(16) Allies who have recently acceded to
NATO are amongst the highest per capita
contributors to NATO missions.
(17) At the Bucharest Summit of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization in April 2008,
the Heads of State and Government of the
member countries of NATO declared,
‘‘NATO’s ongoing enlargement process has
been an historic success in advancing sta-
bility and cooperation and bringing us closer
to our common goal of a Europe whole and
free, united in peace, democracy and com-
mon values. NATO’s door will remain open
to European democracies willing and able to
assume the responsibilities and obligations
of membership, in accordance with Article 10
of the Washington Treaty. We reiterate that
decisions on enlargement are for NATO itself
to make.’’.
(18) Vice President Mike Pence in June 2017
reiterated that the United States ‘‘commit-
ment [to NATO] is unwavering’’ and that
‘‘NATO’s open door must always remain so’’.
(19) The Governments, leaders, and par-
liaments of Greece and the Republic of North
Macedonia have ended their dispute and rati-
fied the Prespa Agreement, resolving a long-
standing bilateral dispute and establishing a
strategic partnership between the two coun-
tries and clearing the way for North Macedo-
nia’s accession to NATO.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF THE SENATE.
The Senate—
(1) lauds NATO for its 70-year maintenance
of the alliance and recognizes its singular
contributions to maintaining the safety, se-
curity, and democratic systems of its mem-
bers;
(2) calls on NATO member states to con-
tinue to fully meet their Wales pledges, more
fully share the security burden by increasing
their defense spending with a focus on meet-
ing capabilities targets, enhancing inter-
operability, improving readiness, and mod-
ernization to respond to the threats that
face the alliance on each of its flanks;
(3) stands in robust support of those NATO
members who spend two percent or more of
their GDPs on defense, acknowledges the
four countries that have met that goal since
2014, and strongly encourages the remainder
to strive to quickly reach that goal;
(4) affirms that the Senate stands ready to
consider, if all applicable criteria are satis-
fied, the Republic of North Macedonia’s ap-
plication to join NATO;
(5) backs the White House’s 2017 affirma-
tion that the United States ‘‘stand[s] firmly
behind Article 5’’ of the NATO Treaty;
(6) welcomes former Secretary of Defense
James Mattis’ efforts to encourage signifi-
cant NATO reforms, especially regarding
modernization, readiness, command struc-
ture adaptation, military mobility, and im-
proving NATO’s speed of decisionmaking to
ensure the alliance remains fit for purpose;
and
(7) reaffirms the commitment of the
United States to NATO’s mission, and its be-
lief that NATO is the most successful secu-
rity alliance in our Nation’s history and one
that will continue to be a cornerstone of
United States security.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 124—CON-
DEMNING THE MARCH 15, 2019,
TERRORIST ATTACKS IN CHRIST-
CHURCH, NEW ZEALAND, OFFER-
ING SINCERE CONDOLENCES TO
ALL OF THE VICTIMS AND THEIR
FAMILIES, AND EXPRESSING
AND STANDING IN SOLIDARITY
WITH THE PEOPLE AND GOVERN-
MENT OF NEW ZEALAND
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. PETERS, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr. MARKEY,
and Mr. SCHUMER) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions:
S. RES. 124
Whereas, on March 15, 2019, an armed white
supremacist murdered 50 Muslims and in-
jured dozens more at the Al Noor and
Linwood mosques in Christchurch, New Zea-
land;
Whereas Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern
has said that ‘‘[i]t is clear that this can now
only be described as a terrorist attack,’’ not-
ing that many of the victims could be mi-
grants or refugees, and pronouncing it ‘‘one
of New Zealand’s darkest days’’;
Whereas the people of New Zealand are
grieving following the terrorist attacks,
which targeted and killed innocent men,
women, and children;
Whereas the people of the United States
and New Zealand stood shoulder-to-shoulder
and shared spilled blood in the struggles of
the 20th century to combat fascism, racism,
and other extremist ideologies;
Whereas New Zealand is among the closest
allies of the United States;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.055 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2056 March 27, 2019
Whereas New Zealand is a diverse nation
with a proud tradition of immigration with
more than 200 ethnicities and 160 languages,
and the strength and vibrancy of New Zea-
land are enhanced by the diverse religious
beliefs and tolerance of its citizens, includ-
ing followers of all major religions, including
Islam, Christianity, and Judaism;
Whereas the suspect in the Christchurch
killings is a self-described immigrant-hating
white supremacist who used a helmet-
mounted camera to broadcast live video of
the slaughter in an apparent effort to insti-
gate further white supremacist, anti-Muslim,
and anti-immigrant violence;
Whereas, over the past several years, there
has been a disturbing increase in white su-
premacist violence around the globe, with
dozens of people of faith murdered, including
in their places of worship;
Whereas the scourge of white nationalism
around the world must be condemned un-
equivocally; and
Whereas the reprehensible attacks at the
Al Noor and Linwood mosques have no place
in a peaceful, civilized, tolerant world: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) condemns the horrific terrorist attacks
on the Al Noor and Linwood mosques in
Christchurch, New Zealand;
(2) expresses its deepest condolences to the
victims of those attacks and their families;
(3) expresses solidarity with the people of
New Zealand, including the Islamic commu-
nity of New Zealand;
(4) recognizes the threat posed by white su-
premacist terrorism and recommits United
States leadership in building more inclusive,
diverse, and tolerant societies; and
(5) calls upon the United States Govern-
ment to redouble its efforts, using all avail-
able and appropriate tools, to combat the
spread of white supremacist terrorism.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 125—DESIG-
NATING MARCH 2019 AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL WOMEN’S HISTORY
MONTH’’
Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. BROWN, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
COONS, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. JONES, Mr. REED, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Ms. HIRONO, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. UDALL, Ms. WARREN, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. DURBIN,
Ms. STABENOW, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. KAINE, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms.
CANTWELL, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. HEINRICH,
Ms. ROSEN, Mr. KING, Mr. CARDIN, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. WYDEN, and Ms. MCSALLY)
submitted the following resolution;
which was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 125
Whereas National Women’s History Month
recognizes and spreads awareness of the im-
portance of women in the history of the
United States;
Whereas, throughout the history of the
United States, whether in the home, their
workplace, school, the courts, or in wartime,
women have fought for themselves, their
families, and all people of the United States;
Whereas, even from the early days of the
history of the United States, Abigail Adams
urged her husband to ‘‘Remember the ladies’’
when representatives met for the Conti-
nental Congress in 1776;
Whereas women were particularly impor-
tant in the establishment of early chari-
table, philanthropic, and cultural institu-
tions in the United States;
Whereas women led the efforts to secure
suffrage and equal opportunity for women,
and also served in the abolitionist move-
ment, the emancipation movement, labor
movements, civil rights movements, and
other causes to create a more fair and just
society for all;
Whereas suffragists wrote, marched, were
arrested, and ultimately succeeded in
achieving the enactment of—
(1) the 19th Amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States, section 1 of which
provides that ‘‘The right of citizens of the
United States to vote shall not be denied or
abridged by the United States or by any
state on account of sex’’; and
(2) the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C.
10301 et seq.), which extended the protection
of the right to vote to women of color and
language minorities;
Whereas, in 2019, the United States cele-
brates the 100th anniversary of Congress pro-
posing the 19th Amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States, which guarantees
women the constitutional right to vote;
Whereas women have been and continue to
be leaders in the forefront of social change
efforts, business, science, government, math,
art, literature, music, film, athletics, and
more;
Whereas women now represent approxi-
mately half of the workforce of the United
States;
Whereas women once were routinely barred
from attending medical schools of the United
States, but now are enrolling in medical
schools of the United States at higher num-
bers than men;
Whereas women previously were turned
away from law school, but now represent ap-
proximately half of law students in the
United States;
Whereas women have been vital to the mis-
sion of the Armed Forces since the American
Revolution, serving in volunteer and enlisted
positions, with more than 200,000 active-duty
servicewomen and 2,000,000 veterans rep-
resenting every branch of service;
Whereas more than 10,000,000 women own
businesses in the United States;
Whereas Jeannette Rankin of Montana was
the first woman elected to the House of Rep-
resentatives in 1916 and Hattie Wyatt Cara-
way of Arkansas was the first woman elected
to the United States Senate in 1932;
Whereas Margaret Chase Smith of Maine
was the first woman to serve in both houses
of Congress;
Whereas a record number of women were
elected to public office in the 2018 midterm
elections;
Whereas, in the 116th Congress, a record 25
women serve as United States Senators, and
102 women serve in the House of Representa-
tives;
Whereas President Jimmy Carter issued
the first Presidential Proclamation desig-
nating March 2 through 8, 1980, as ‘‘National
Women’s History Week’’;
Whereas, in 1987, a bipartisan group of Sen-
ators introduced the first joint resolution to
pass Congress designating ‘‘Women’s History
Month’’;
Whereas President Ronald Reagan issued
the first ‘‘Women’s History Month’’ Presi-
dential Proclamation in 1987; and
Whereas, despite the advancements of
women in the United States, much remains
to be done to ensure that women realize
their full potential as equal members of soci-
ety in the United States: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates March 2019 as ‘‘National
Women’s History Month’’;
(2) recognizes the celebration of ‘‘National
Women’s History Month’’ as a time to reflect
on the many notable contributions that
women have made to the United States; and
(3) urges the people of the United States to
observe ‘‘National Women’s History Month’’
with appropriate programs and activities.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today in honor of Women’s History
Month to recognize the tremendous
achievements women have made for
the United States and pay tribute to
their tireless efforts to fight for them-
selves, their families, and all Ameri-
cans.
We have set aside this month for over
30 years to give us the opportunity to
not only reflect on the past and ob-
serve the many accomplishments of
American women, but to also inspire
the next generation of women leaders.
I look upon the great courage our
foremothers have displayed with great
admiration and continue to personally
be inspired by those who blazed the
trail for women like me.
When I first came to Washington in
1992, they called it the ‘‘Year of the
Woman.’’ Only two other women were
serving in the Senate, and four women
had just been elected to the chamber,
myself included. Today, a quarter of
the Senate is represented by women
and a record 102 women serve in the
House of Representatives, including
the first woman speaker. I am proud of
the progress we’ve made and hopeful
we will continue to build on that mo-
mentum toward full equality..
Even at record levels, though, the
number of women in Congress falls far
short of the 51 percent of our Nation’s
population that are women. I have
great hope in the next generations of
women to rise up and help lead the way
in building a better California and
United States.
As in government, women have been
and continue to be leaders in major so-
cial change efforts in our Nation. The
business world has been transformed by
powerful women at the table, as have
science, music, film, athletics, lit-
erature, and much more. Today, there
are more than 10 million women owned
American businesses and half of our
workforce is made up of women.
Enrollment numbers at medical and
law schools are now almost evenly split
between men and women. Our women
warriors serve in critical roles in the
U.S. Armed Forces, with more than
200,000 active-duty servicewomen
proudly serving and a growing number
of women veterans representing every
branch of service.
Women who have selflessly answered
the call to duty have served their Na-
tion with honor, courage, and distinc-
tion. I have the utmost respect for the
dignity and valor they exhibit and they
are commended.
As a United States Senator proudly
representing California, I ask you to
join me in celebrating the stories and
greatness of American women who ac-
complished the unprecedented and
honor their legacies by continuing to
defend the rights they worked so hard
to achieve. Thank you Mr. President
and I yield the floor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.056 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2057
March 27, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 126—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF THE WEEK OF
MARCH 25 THROUGH MARCH 29,
2019, AS ‘‘PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WEEK’’
Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
TESTER, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. JONES, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. KING, Ms. WARREN, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. CARPER, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. KAINE,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
SANDERS, Ms. BALDWIN, Mrs. SHAHEEN,
Mr. BENNET, Mr. REED, Mr. BOOKER,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms.
HIRONO, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. SINEMA, and
Ms. HARRIS) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 126
Whereas public education is a significant
institution in a 21st-century democracy;
Whereas the public schools in the United
States are where students come to be edu-
cated about the values and beliefs that hold
the people of the United States together as a
nation;
Whereas public schools prepare young peo-
ple of the United States to contribute to the
society, economy, and citizenry of the coun-
try;
Whereas 90 percent of children in the
United States attend public schools;
Whereas local, State, and Federal law-
makers should prioritize support for
strengthening the public schools of the
United States and empower superintendents,
principals, and other school leaders to imple-
ment, manage, and lead school districts and
schools in partnership with educators, par-
ents, and other local education stakeholders;
Whereas local, State, and Federal law-
makers should support services and pro-
grams such as counseling, extracurricular
activities, and mental health supports that
are critical to help students engage in learn-
ing;
Whereas public schools should foster inclu-
sive, safe, and high-quality environments
where children can learn to think critically,
problem solve, and build relationships;
Whereas public schools should provide an
environment in which all students can have
the opportunity to succeed beginning in
their earliest years, regardless of who they
are or where they live;
Whereas Congress should support efforts to
advance equal opportunity and excellence in
public education and to implement contin-
uous improvement and evidence-based prac-
tices;
Whereas every child should receive an edu-
cation that helps the child reach the child’s
full potential and to attend schools that
offer a high-quality educational experience;
Whereas Federal funding, in addition to
local and State funds, supports the access of
students to inviting classrooms, well-pre-
pared educators, and services to support
healthy students, such as nutrition and after
school programs;
Whereas teachers, paraprofessionals, and
principals should provide a well-rounded edu-
cation and strive to create joy in learning;
Whereas superintendents, principals, other
school leaders, teachers, paraprofessionals,
and parents make public schools vital com-
ponents of communities and are working
hard to improve educational outcomes for
children across the country; and
Whereas the week of March 25 through
March 29, 2019, would be an appropriate pe-
riod to designate as ‘‘Public Schools Week’’:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate supports the des-
ignation of the week of March 25 through
March 29, 2019, as ‘‘Public Schools Week’’.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 127—RECOG-
NIZING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF
AMERICORPS MEMBERS AND
ALUMNI TO THE LIVES OF THE
PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES
Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr. CASSIDY,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BROWN, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. CARPER, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. REED, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
KING, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Ms. COLLINS, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. WICKER, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. TESTER, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. BENNET, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, and Ms. WARREN) submitted the
following resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 127
Whereas, since its inception in 1994, the
AmeriCorps national service program has
proven to be a highly effective way—
(1) to engage the people of the United
States in meeting a wide range of local and
national needs; and
(2) to promote the ethics of service and vol-
unteerism;
Whereas, since 1994, more than 1,000,000 in-
dividuals have taken the AmeriCorps pledge
to ‘‘get things done for America’’ by becom-
ing AmeriCorps members;
Whereas, each year, AmeriCorps, in coordi-
nation with State service commissions, pro-
vides opportunities for approximately 75,000
individuals across the United States to give
back in an intensive way to communities,
States, Tribal nations, and the United
States;
Whereas AmeriCorps members have served
more than 1,500,000,000 hours nationwide,
helping—
(1) to improve the lives of the most vulner-
able people of the United States;
(2) to protect the environment;
(3) to contribute to public safety;
(4) to respond to disasters;
(5) to strengthen the educational system of
the United States; and
(6) to expand economic opportunity;
Whereas, since 1994, more than
$9,200,000,000 in AmeriCorps funds have been
invested in nonprofit, community, edu-
cational, and faith-based groups, and those
funds leverage hundreds of millions of dol-
lars in outside funding and in-kind donations
each year;
Whereas AmeriCorps members recruit and
supervise millions of community volunteers,
demonstrating the value of AmeriCorps as a
powerful force for encouraging people to be-
come involved in volunteering and commu-
nity service;
Whereas AmeriCorps members serve at
more than 20,000 locations across the United
States, including at nonprofit organizations,
schools, and faith-based and community or-
ganizations;
Whereas AmeriCorps National Civilian
Community Corps campuses in the States of
Mississippi, Maryland, Iowa, California, and
Colorado strengthen communities and de-
velop future leaders through team-based
service;
Whereas AmeriCorps members nationwide,
in return for the service of those members,
have earned more than $3,700,000,000 to use to
further their own educational advancement
at colleges and universities across the
United States;
Whereas AmeriCorps members, after their
terms of service with AmeriCorps end, have
been more likely to remain engaged in their
communities as volunteers, teachers, and
nonprofit professionals than the average in-
dividual;
Whereas AmeriCorps is a proven pathway
to employment, providing members with val-
uable career skills, experience, and contacts
to prepare them for the 21st century work-
force and to help close the skills gap in the
United States;
Whereas, in 2009, Congress passed the bi-
partisan Serve America Act (Public Law 111–
13; 123 Stat. 1460), which authorized the ex-
pansion of national service, expanded oppor-
tunities to serve, increased efficiency and ac-
countability, and strengthened the capacity
of organizations and communities to solve
problems;
Whereas national service programs have
engaged millions of people in the United
States in results-driven service in the most
vulnerable communities of the United
States, providing hope and help to individ-
uals with economic and social needs;
Whereas national service and volunteerism
demonstrate the best of the spirit of the
United States, with people turning toward
problems and working together to find com-
munity solutions; and
Whereas AmeriCorps Week, observed in
2019 from March 10 through March 16, is an
appropriate time for the people of the United
States—
(1) to salute current and former
AmeriCorps members for their positive im-
pact on the lives of people in the United
States;
(2) to thank the community partners of
AmeriCorps for making the program pos-
sible; and
(3) to encourage more people in the United
States to become involved in service and vol-
unteering: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) encourages the people of the United
States to join in a national effort—
(A) to salute AmeriCorps members and
alumni; and
(B) to raise awareness about the impor-
tance of national and community service;
(2) acknowledges the significant accom-
plishments of the members, alumni, and
community partners of AmeriCorps;
(3) recognizes the important contributions
made by AmeriCorps members and alumni to
the lives of the people of the United States;
and
(4) encourages individuals of all ages to
consider opportunities to serve in
AmeriCorps.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 9—EXPRESSING THE SENSE
OF CONGRESS THAT TAX-EX-
EMPT FRATERNAL BENEFIT SO-
CIETIES HAVE HISTORICALLY
PROVIDED AND CONTINUE TO
PROVIDE CRITICAL BENEFITS TO
THE PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES
OF THE UNITED STATES
Mr. ROBERTS (for himself, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. CARDIN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. LANKFORD) sub-
mitted the following concurrent resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Finance:
S. CON. RES. 9
Whereas the fraternal benefit societies of
the United States are longstanding mutual
aid organizations created more than a cen-
tury ago to serve the needs of communities
and provide for the payment of life, health,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.059 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2058 March 27, 2019
accident, and other benefits to their mem-
bers;
Whereas fraternal benefit societies rep-
resent a successful, modern-day model under
which individuals come together with a com-
mon purpose to collectively provide chari-
table and other beneficial activities for soci-
ety;
Whereas fraternal benefit societies operate
under a chapter system, creating a nation-
wide infrastructure, combined with local en-
ergy and knowledge, which positions fra-
ternal benefit societies to most efficiently
address unmet needs in communities, many
of which the government cannot address;
Whereas the fraternal benefit society
model represents one of the largest member-
volunteer networks in the United States,
with approximately 8,000,000 people of the
United States belonging to more than 25,000
local chapters across the country;
Whereas research has shown that the value
of the work of fraternal benefit societies to
society is more than $3,800,000,000 per year,
accounting for charitable giving, educational
programs, and volunteer activities, as well
as important social capital that strengthens
the fabric, safety, and quality of life in thou-
sands of local communities in the United
States;
Whereas, in 1909, Congress recognized the
value of fraternal benefit societies and ex-
empted those organizations from taxation,
as later codified in section 501(c)(8) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986;
Whereas fraternal benefit societies have
adapted since 1909 to better serve the evolv-
ing needs of their members and the public;
Whereas the efforts of fraternal benefit so-
cieties to help people of the United States
save money and be financially secure re-
lieves pressure on government safety net
programs; and
Whereas Congress recognizes that fraternal
benefit societies have served their original
purpose for more than a century, helping
countless individuals, families, and commu-
nities through fraternal member activities:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That it is the sense
of Congress that—
(1) the fraternal benefit society model is a
successful private sector economic and social
support system that helps meet needs that
would otherwise go unmet;
(2) the provision of payment for life,
health, accident, or other benefits to the
members of fraternal benefit societies in ac-
cordance with section 501(c)(8) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is necessary to sup-
port the charitable and fraternal activities
of the volunteer chapters within the commu-
nities of fraternal benefit societies;
(3) fraternal benefit societies have adapted
since 1909 to better serve their members and
the public; and
(4) the exemption from taxation under sec-
tion 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 of fraternal benefit societies continues
to generate significant returns to the United
States, and the work of fraternal benefit so-
cieties should continue to be promoted.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 203. Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 201
submitted by Mr. SHELBY and intended to be
proposed to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 204. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Ms. WARREN, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. MARKEY, and Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 201 submitted
by Mr. SHELBY and intended to be proposed
to the bill H.R. 268, supra; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 205. Mr. LEAHY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 submitted by Mr. SHELBY and in-
tended to be proposed to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 206. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
BURR) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 207. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
BURR) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 208. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
BURR) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 209. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
BURR) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 210. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
BURR) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 268,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 211. Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr. BURR,
Mr. CORNYN, and Mr. CRUZ) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 submitted by Mr. SHELBY
and intended to be proposed to the bill H.R.
268, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 212. Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. TILLIS,
Mr. BURR, and Mr. KENNEDY) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 submitted by Mr. SHELBY
and intended to be proposed to the bill H.R.
268, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 203. Ms. HARRIS (for herself and
Mrs. FEINSTEIN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 submitted by Mr.
SHELBY and intended to be proposed to
the bill H.R. 268, making supplemental
appropriations for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes; which was ordered to lie on
the table; as follows:
On page 55, line 20, insert after ‘‘Sec-
retary:’’ the following: ‘‘Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this heading, $150,000,000 shall be allocated to
meet unmet infrastructure needs for grant-
ees that received allocations for disasters
that occurred in 2017 under this heading of
division B of Public Law 115–56 and title XI
of Public Law 115–123:’’.
SA 204. Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for him-
self, Ms. WARREN, Mr. SANDERS, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MARKEY,
and Mrs. GILLIBRAND) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 submitted by Mr.
SHELBY and intended to be proposed to
the bill H.R. 268, making supplemental
appropriations for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes; which was ordered to lie on
the table; as follows:
At the end of title V of division A, add the
following:
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 501. (a) IN GENERAL.—The Federal
share of assistance provided for DR–4336–PR,
DR–4339–PR, DR–4340–USVI and DR–4335–
USVI under sections 403, 406 and 407 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170b and
5173) shall be 100 percent of the eligible costs
under such sections.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—The Federal share pro-
vided by subsection (a) shall apply to dis-
aster assistance applied for before, on, or
after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 502. The Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency shall pro-
vide assistance, pursuant to section 428 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.), for critical services as defined in sec-
tion 406 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act for the
duration of the recovery for incidents DR–
4404, DR–4396, and DR–4398 to—
(1) replace or restore the function of a fa-
cility or system to industry standards with-
out regard to the pre-disaster condition of
the facility or system; and
(2) replace or restore components of the fa-
cility or system not damaged by the disaster
where necessary to fully effectuate the re-
placement or restoration of disaster-dam-
aged components to restore the function of
the facility or system to industry standards.
SA 205. Mr. LEAHY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 201 submitted by Mr.
SHELBY and intended to be proposed to
the bill H.R. 268, making supplemental
appropriations for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes; which was ordered to lie on
the table; as follows:
Strike all after page 55, line 6
through page 62, line 6 and insert the
following:
‘‘(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
‘‘For an additional amount for ‘Commu-
nity Development Fund’, $1,491,000,000 to re-
main available until expended, for necessary
expenses for activities authorized under title
I of the Housing and Community Develop-
ment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
sulting from a major disaster that occurred
in 2018 (except as otherwise provided under
this heading) pursuant to the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided,
That funds shall be awarded directly to the
State, unit of general local government, or
Indian tribe (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 102 of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974) at the discretion of
the Secretary: Provided further, That of the
amounts made available under this heading
the Secretary shall allocate an amount nec-
essary to address unmet needs for restora-
tion of infrastructure for grantees that re-
ceived allocations for disasters that occurred
in 2017 under this heading of division B of
Public Law 115–56 and title XI of subdivision
1 of division B of Public Law 115–123: Provided
further, That of the amounts provided in the
previous proviso, the Secretary’s determina-
tion of unmet needs for restoration of infra-
structure shall not take into account mitiga-
tion-specific allocations: Provided further,
That any funds made available under this
heading and under the same heading in Pub-
lic Law 115–254 that remain available, after
the funds under such headings have been al-
located for necessary expenses for activities
authorized under such headings, shall be al-
located to grantees receiving awards for dis-
asters that occurred in 2018, for mitigation
activities in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas resulting from a major disaster
that occurred in 2018: Provided further, That
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.061 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2059
March 27, 2019
allocations under the previous proviso shall
be made in the same proportion that the
amount of funds each grantee received or
will receive under this heading for unmet
needs related to disasters that occurred in
2018 and the same heading in division I of
Public Law 115–254 bears to the amount of all
funds provided to all grantees that received
allocations for disasters that occurred in
2018: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under the text preceding the
first proviso under this heading and under
the same heading in Public Law 115–254, the
Secretary shall allocate to all such grantees
an aggregate amount not less than 33 per-
cent of the sum of such amounts of funds
within 120 days after the enactment of this
Act based on the best available data, and
shall allocate no less than 100 percent of
such funds by no later than 180 days after the
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall not prohibit the use of
funds made available under this heading and
the same heading in Public Law 115–254 for
non-Federal share as authorized by section
105(a)(9) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)):
Provided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading, grantees may
establish grant programs to assist small
businesses for working capital purposes to
aid in recovery: Provided further, That as a
condition of making any grant, the Sec-
retary shall certify in advance that such
grantee has in place proficient financial con-
trols and procurement processes and has es-
tablished adequate procedures to prevent
any duplication of benefits as defined by sec-
tion 312 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5155), to ensure timely expenditure of
funds, to maintain comprehensive websites
regarding all disaster recovery activities as-
sisted with these funds, and to detect and
prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds: Pro-
vided further, That with respect to any such
duplication of benefits, the Secretary shall
act in accordance with section 1210 of Public
Law 115–254 (132 Stat. 3442) and section 312 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155):
Provided further, That the Secretary shall re-
quire grantees to maintain on a public
website information containing common re-
porting criteria established by the Depart-
ment that permits individuals and entities
awaiting assistance and the general public to
see how all grant funds are used, including
copies of all relevant procurement docu-
ments, grantee administrative contracts and
details of ongoing procurement processes, as
determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That prior to the obligation of funds a
grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary
for approval detailing the proposed use of all
funds, including criteria for eligibility and
how the use of these funds will address long-
term recovery and restoration of infrastruc-
ture and housing, economic revitalization,
and mitigation in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas: Provided further, That such
funds may not be used for activities reim-
bursed by, or for which funds have been made
available by, the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency or the Army Corps of Engi-
neers, in excess of the authorized amount of
the project or its components: Provided fur-
ther, That funds allocated under this heading
shall not be considered relevant to the non-
disaster formula allocations made pursuant
to section 106 of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Pro-
vided further, That a State, unit of general
local government, or Indian tribe may use up
to 5 percent of its allocation for administra-
tive costs: Provided further, That the first
proviso under this heading in the Supple-
mental Appropriations for Disaster Relief
Requirements Act, 2018 (division I of Public
Law 115–254) is amended by striking ‘State or
unit of general local government’ and insert-
ing ‘State, unit of general local government,
or Indian tribe (as such term is defined in
section 102 of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’:
Provided further, That the sixth proviso
under this heading in the Supplemental Ap-
propriations for Disaster Relief Require-
ments Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law 115–
254) is amended by striking ‘State or subdivi-
sion thereof’ and inserting ‘State, unit of
general local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’: Provided further, That
in administering the funds under this head-
ing, the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment may waive, or specify alternative
requirements for, any provision of any stat-
ute or regulation that the Secretary admin-
isters in connection with the obligation by
the Secretary or the use by the recipient of
these funds (except for requirements related
to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor
standards, and the environment), if the Sec-
retary finds that good cause exists for the
waiver or alternative requirement and such
waiver or alternative requirement would not
be inconsistent with the overall purpose of
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, re-
cipients of funds provided under this heading
that use such funds to supplement Federal
assistance provided under section 402, 403,
404, 406, 407, 408 (c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may
adopt, without review or public comment,
any environmental review, approval, or per-
mit performed by a Federal agency, and such
adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of
the recipient with respect to such environ-
mental review, approval or permit: Provided
further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)),
the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request
for release of funds and certification, imme-
diately approve the release of funds for an
activity or project assisted under this head-
ing if the recipient has adopted an environ-
mental review, approval or permit under the
preceding proviso or the activity or project
is categorically excluded from review under
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall publish via notice
in the Federal Register any waiver, or alter-
native requirement, to any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers pursu-
ant to title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days
before the effective date of such waiver or al-
ternative requirement: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, up to $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for capacity building and technical as-
sistance, including assistance on contracting
and procurement processes, to support
States, units of general local government, or
Indian tribes (and their subrecipients) that
receive allocations pursuant to this heading,
received disaster recovery allocations under
the same heading in Public Law 115–254, or
may receive similar allocations for disaster
recovery in future appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate,
to ‘Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment—Program Office Salaries and Ex-
penses—Community Planning and Develop-
ment’ for necessary costs, including informa-
tion technology costs, of administering and
overseeing the obligation and expenditure of
amounts under this heading: Provided further,
That the amount specified in the preceding
proviso shall be combined with funds appro-
priated under the same heading and for the
same purpose in Public Law 115–254 and the
aggregate of such amounts shall be available
for any of the same such purposes specified
under this heading or the same heading in
Public Law 115–254 without limitation: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.’’;
(2) at the appropriate place under title X,
insert the following:
‘‘SEC. ll. Of all amounts made available
for mitigation activities under the heading
‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’ in
Public Law 115–123, the Secretary shall pub-
lish in the Federal Register the allocations
to all eligible grantees, and the necessary ad-
ministrative requirements applicable to such
allocations within 90 days after enactment of
this Act;
‘‘(1) For any plans or amendments address-
ing the use of any funds provided under Pub-
lic Law 115–123 and received by the Secretary
prior to December 22, 2018, the Secretary
shall review pending amendments within 15
days of enactment of this Act and pending
plans within 30 days of enactment of this
Act;
‘‘(2) After the date of this Act, the Sec-
retary may not apply the statutory waiver
or alternative requirement authority pro-
vided by Public Law 115–123 to extend or oth-
erwise alter existing statutory and regu-
latory provisions governing the timeline for
review of required grantee plans.’’;
(3) at the appropriate place under title VI,
insert the following new paragraph:
‘‘In addition, for an additional amount for
‘State and Tribal Assistance Grants’,
$250,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $130,500,000 shall be for cap-
italization grants for the Clean Water State
Revolving Funds under title VI of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act, and of
which $119,500,000 shall be for capitalization
grants under section 1452 of the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act: Provided, That notwith-
standing section 604(a) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act and section
1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking Water Act,
funds appropriated herein shall be provided
to States or Territories in EPA Regions 2, 4
and 6 in amounts determined by the Admin-
istrator for wastewater and drinking water
treatment works and facilities impacted by
Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria: Pro-
vided further, That, for Region 2, such funds
allocated from funds appropriated herein
shall not be subject to the matching or cost
share requirements of sections 602(b)(2),
602(b)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act nor the matching requirements of
section 1452(e) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act: Provided further, That, for Region 2, not-
withstanding the requirements of section
603(i) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act and section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, each State and Territory shall
use the full amount of its capitalization
grants allocated from funds appropriated
herein to provide additional subsidization to
eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness
of principal, negative interest loans or
grants or any combination of these: Provided
further, That, for Regions 4 and 6, notwith-
standing the requirements of section 603(i) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, for the funds allocated, each State shall
use not less than 20 percent but not more
than 30 percent amount of its capitalization
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.065 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2060 March 27, 2019
grants allocated from funds appropriated
herein to provide additional subsidization to
eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness
of principal, negative interest loans or
grants or any combination of these: Provided
further, That the Administrator shall retain
$37,300,000 of the funds appropriated herein
for grants to any state or territory that has
not established a water pollution control re-
volving fund pursuant to title VI of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act or section
1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act for
drinking water facilities and waste water
treatment plants impacted by Hurricanes
Irma and Maria: Provided further, That the
funds appropriated herein shall only be used
for eligible projects whose purpose is to re-
duce flood damage risk and vulnerability or
to enhance resiliency to rapid hydrologic
change or a natural disaster at treatment
works as defined by section 212 of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act or any eli-
gible facilities under section 1452 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act, and for other eligible
tasks at such treatment works or facilities
necessary to further such purposes: Provided
further, That, for Region 2, notwithstanding
section 603(d)(2) of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act and section 1452(f)(2) of the
Safe Drinking Water Act, funds allocated
from funds appropriated herein may be used
to make loans or to buy, refinance or re-
structure the debt obligations of eligible re-
cipients only where such debt was incurred
on or after September 20, 2017: Provided fur-
ther, That the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency may retain up to
$1,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein for
management and oversight: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.’’; and
(4) at the appropriate place under title VII,
insert the following:
‘‘GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
‘‘SEC. ll. (a) Section 1108(g)(5) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1308(g)(5)) is
amended—
‘‘(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘and
(E)’ and inserting ‘(E), and (F)’;
‘‘(2) in subparagraph (C), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by striking ‘and (E)’ and in-
serting ‘and (F)’;
‘‘(3) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as
subparagraph (F);
‘‘(4) by inserting after subparagraph (D),
the following:
‘‘ ‘(E) Subject to subparagraph (F), for the
period beginning January 1, 2019, and ending
September 30, 2019, the amount of the in-
crease otherwise provided under subpara-
graph (A) for the Northern Mariana Islands
shall be further increased by $36,000,000.’; and
‘‘(5) in subparagraph (F) (as redesignated
by paragraph (3) of this section)—
‘‘(A) by striking ‘title XIX, during’and in-
serting ‘‘title XIX—
‘‘ ‘(i) during’;
‘‘(B) by striking ‘and (D)’ and inserting ‘,
(D), and (E)’;
‘‘(C) by striking ‘and the Virgin Islands’
each place it appears and inserting ‘, the Vir-
gin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Is-
lands’;
‘‘(D) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘; and’; and
‘‘(E) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘ ‘(ii) for the period beginning January 1,
2019, and ending September 30, 2019, with re-
spect to payments to Guam and American
Samoa from the additional funds provided
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall
increase the Federal medical assistance per-
centage or other rate that would otherwise
apply to such payments to 100 percent.’.
‘‘(b) The amounts provided by the amend-
ments made by subsection (a) are designated
by the Congress as being for an emergency
requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.’’.
SA 206. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and
Mr. BURR) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 55, line 7, strike ‘‘$1,060,000,000’’
and insert ‘‘$2,940,000,000’’.
SA 207. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and
Mr. BURR) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 20, line 5, strike ‘‘$740,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$1,500,000,000’’.
SA 208. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and
Mr. BURR) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 19, line 11, strike ‘‘$35,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$96,000,000’’.
SA 209. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and
Mr. BURR) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 18, line 5, strike ‘‘$200,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$1,180,000,000’’.
SA 210. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and
Mr. BURR) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 18, line 5, strike ‘‘$200,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$1,180,000,000’’.
On page 19, line 11, strike ‘‘$35,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$96,000,000’’.
On page 20, line 5, strike ‘‘$740,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$1,500,000,000’’.
On page 55, line 7, strike ‘‘$1,060,000,000’’
and insert ‘‘$2,940,000,000’’.
SA 211. Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr.
BURR, Mr. CORNYN, and Mr. CRUZ) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 201 sub-
mitted by Mr. SHELBY and intended to
be proposed to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. AUTHORITY TO BEGIN PLANNING AND
CONSTRUCTION OF CERTAIN HAZ-
ARD MITIGATION PROJECTS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘Administrator’’ means the
Administrator of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency;
(2) the term ‘‘covered project’’ means a
project—
(A) that will result in protection to prop-
erty; and
(B) for which an entity initiated planning
or construction before or after requesting as-
sistance for the project under a hazard miti-
gation grant program; and
(3) the term ‘‘hazard mitigation grant pro-
gram’’ means—
(A) the predisaster hazard mitigation grant
program authorized under section 203 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133);
(B) the hazard mitigation grant program
authorized under section 404 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c); and
(C) the flood mitigation assistance pro-
gram authorized under section 1366 of the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 4104c).
(b) ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE FOR INITI-
ATED PROJECTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, an entity seeking
hazard mitigation assistance under a hazard
mitigation grant program shall be eligible to
receive such assistance for a covered project
if the entity—
(A) complies with all other eligibility re-
quirements of the hazard mitigation grant
program; and
(B) complies with all Federal planning and
building requirements for the project.
(2) COSTS INCURRED.—An entity seeking
hazard mitigation assistance under a hazard
mitigation grant program shall be respon-
sible for any project costs incurred by the
entity for a covered project if the covered
project is not awarded, or is determined to
be ineligible for, assistance.
(c) APPLICABILITY.—This section shall
apply to any application for hazard mitiga-
tion assistance for a covered project sub-
mitted on or after January 1, 2016.
SA 212. Mr. CORNYN (for himself,
Mr. CRUZ, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. BURR, and Mr. KENNEDY)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 201 sub-
mitted by Mr. SHELBY and intended to
be proposed to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll01. For all amounts made avail-
able for mitigation activities under the
heading ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban
Development—Community Planning and De-
velopment—Community Development Fund’’
in Public Law 115–123, the Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development shall, not later
than 90 days after enactment of this Act,
publish in the Federal Register the alloca-
tions made to all eligible grantees and the
necessary administrative requirements ap-
plicable to those allocations.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
have 9 requests for committees to meet
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.065 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2061
March 27, 2019
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, March 27, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing ‘‘Our
blue economy, success and opportuni-
ties.’’
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, March 27, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled
‘‘Chairman’s housing reform outline,
part II.’’
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday,
March 27, 2019, at 10 a m., to conduct a
hearing on the following nominations:
Robert A. Destro, of Virginia, to be As-
sistant Secretary for Democracy,
Human Rights, and Labor, Keith
Krach, of California, to be an Under
Secretary (Economic Growth, Energy,
and the Environment), to be United
States Alternate Governor of the Euro-
pean Bank for Reconstruction and De-
velopment, and to be United States Al-
ternate Governor of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment, and United States Alternate
Governor of the Inter-American Devel-
opment Bank, and David Stilwell, of
Hawaii, to be an Assistant Secretary
(East Asian and Pacific Affairs), all of
the Department of State.
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
The Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, March 27, 2019, at 10:30 a.m., to
conduct a hearing entitled, ‘‘Annual
oversight of the Smithsonian Institu-
tions.’’
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
The Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, March 27, 2019, at 2:30
p.m., to conduct a business meeting on
pending legislation.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON SEAPOWER
The Subcommittee on Seapower of
the Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, March 27,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC FORCES
The Subcommittee on Strategic
Forces of the Committee on Armed
Services is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, March 27, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to con-
duct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON AVIATION, OPERATIONS,
SAFETY, AND SECURITY
The Subcommittee on Aviation, Op-
erations, Safety, and Security of the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, March 27, 2019, at 3 p.m., to
conduct a hearing entitled, ‘‘Oversight
of commercial aviation.’’
SUBCOMMITTEE ON WATER AND POWER
The Subcommittee on Water and
Power of the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, March 27, 2019, at 2.30
p.m., to conduct a hearing.
f
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, as
in executive session, I ask unanimous
consent that at 1:30 p.m. on Thursday,
March 28, the Senate proceed to execu-
tive session and consideration of Exec-
utive Calendar No. 9; further, that
there be 15 minutes of debate equally
divided and that following the use or
yielding back of time, the Senate vote
on the nomination with no intervening
action or debate; that if confirmed, the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table, the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action, and the Senate re-
sume legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 297
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk,
and I ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The lead-
er is correct.
The clerk will read the bill by title
for the first time.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 297) to extend the Federal rec-
ognition to the Little Shell Tribe of Chip-
pewa Indians of Montana, and for other pur-
poses.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I now ask for a
second reading and, in order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to my own
request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will re-
ceive a second reading on the next leg-
islative day.
f
HIDDEN FIGURES CONGRESSIONAL
GOLD MEDAL ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S. 590 and the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 590) to award Congressional Gold
Medals to Katherine Johnson and Dr. Chris-
tine Darden, to posthumously award Con-
gressional Gold Medals to Dorothy Vaughan
and Mary Jackson, and to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to honor all of the women
who contributed to the success of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion during the Space Race.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent the bill be considered read a
third time and passed and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 590) was ordered to be en-
grossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed, as follows:
S. 590
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Hidden Fig-
ures Congressional Gold Medal Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) In 1935, the National Advisory Com-
mittee for Aeronautics (referred to in this
section as ‘‘NACA’’) hired 5 women to serve
as the first ‘‘computer pool’’ at the Langley
Memorial Aeronautical Laboratory where
those women took on work making calcula-
tions that male engineers had made pre-
viously.
(2) During the 1940s, NACA began recruit-
ing African-American women to work as
computers and initially separated those
women from their White counterparts in a
group known as the ‘‘West Area Computers’’
where the women were restricted to seg-
regated dining and bathroom facilities.
(3) Katherine Johnson was born on August
26, 1918, in White Sulphur Springs, West Vir-
ginia.
(4) In 1953, Katherine Johnson began her
career in aeronautics as a computer in the
segregated West Area Computing unit de-
scribed in paragraph (2).
(5) As a member of the Flight Research Di-
vision, Katherine Johnson analyzed data
from flight tests. After NACA was reformu-
lated into the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (referred to in this
section as ‘‘NASA’’), Katherine Johnson—
(A) calculated the trajectory for Alan
Shepard’s Freedom 7 mission in 1961, which
was the first human spaceflight by an indi-
vidual from the United States;
(B) co-authored a report that provided the
equations for describing orbital spaceflight
with a specified landing point, which made
her the first woman to be recognized as an
author of a report from the Flight Research
Division;
(C) was asked to verify the calculations
when electronic computers at NASA were
used to calculate the orbit for John Glenn’s
Friendship 7 mission; and
(D) provided calculations for NASA
throughout her career, including for the
Apollo missions.
(6) Katherine Johnson retired from NASA
in 1986.
(7) Dr. Christine Darden was born on Sep-
tember 10, 1942, in Monroe, North Carolina.
(8) In 1962, Dr. Christine Darden graduated
from Hampton Institute with a B.S. in Math-
ematics and a teaching credential.
(9) Dr. Christine Darden attended Virginia
State University where she studied aerosol
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.067 S27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2062 March 27, 2019
physics and earned an M.S. in Applied Math-
ematics.
(10) Dr. Christine Darden began her career
in aeronautics in 1967 as a data analyst at
NASA’s Langley Research Center (referred
to in this section as ‘‘Langley’’) before being
promoted to aerospace engineer in 1973. Her
work in this position resulted in the produc-
tion of low-boom sonic effects, which revolu-
tionized aerodynamics design.
(11) Dr. Christine Darden completed her
education by earning a Ph.D. in Mechanical
Engineering from George Washington Uni-
versity in 1983.
(12) While working at NASA, Dr. Christine
Darden—
(A) was appointed to be the leader of the
Sonic Boom Team, which worked on designs
to minimize the effects of sonic booms by
testing wing and nose designs for supersonic
aircraft;
(B) wrote more than 50 articles on aero-
nautics design; and
(C) became the first African American to
be promoted to a position in the Senior Ex-
ecutive Service at Langley.
(13) Dorothy Vaughan was born on Sep-
tember 20, 1910, in Kansas City, Missouri.
(14) Dorothy Vaughan began working for
NACA in 1943. Dorothy Vaughan—
(A) started at NACA as a member of the
West Area Computing unit;
(B) was promoted to be the head of the
West Area Computing unit, becoming
NACA’s first African-American supervisor, a
position that she held for 9 years; and
(C) became an expert programmer in
FORTRAN as a member of NASA’s Analysis
and Computation Division.
(15) Dorothy Vaughan retired from NASA
in 1971 and died on November 10, 2008.
(16) Mary Jackson was born on April 9,
1921, in Hampton, Virginia.
(17) Mary Jackson started her career at
NACA in 1951, working as a computer as a
member of the West Area Computing unit.
(18) After petitioning the city of Hampton
to allow her to take graduate-level courses
in math and physics at night at the all-
White Hampton High School, Mary Jackson
was able to complete the required training to
become an engineer, making her NASA’s
first female African-American engineer.
(19) Mary Jackson—
(A) while at NACA and NASA—
(i) worked in the Theoretical Aero-
dynamics Branch of the Subsonic-Transonic
Aerodynamics Division at Langley where she
analyzed wind tunnel and aircraft flight
data; and
(ii) published a dozen technical papers that
focused on the boundary layer of air around
airplanes; and
(B) after 21 years working as an engineer
at NASA, transitioned to a new job as
Langley’s Federal Women’s Program Man-
ager where she worked to improve the pros-
pects of NASA’s female mathematicians, en-
gineers, and scientists.
(20) Mary Jackson retired from NASA in
1985 and died in 2005.
(21) These 4 women, along with the other
African-American women in NASA’s West
Area Computing unit, were integral to the
success of the early space program. The sto-
ries of these 4 women exemplify the experi-
ences of hundreds of women who worked as
computers, mathematicians, and engineers
at NACA beginning in the 1930s and the
handmade calculations that they made
played an integral role in—
(A) aircraft testing during World War II;
(B) supersonic flight research;
(C) sending the Voyager probes to explore
the solar system; and
(D) the United States landing the first man
on the lunar surface.
SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDALS.
(a) PRESENTATION AUTHORIZED.—The
Speaker of the House of Representatives and
the President pro tempore of the Senate
shall make appropriate arrangements for the
presentation, on behalf of Congress, of 5 gold
medals of appropriate design as follows:
(1) One gold medal to Katherine Johnson in
recognition of her service to the United
States as a mathematician.
(2) One gold medal to Dr. Christine Darden
for her service to the United States as an
aeronautical engineer.
(3) In recognition of their service to the
United States during the Space Race—
(A) 1 gold medal commemorating the life
of Dorothy Vaughan; and
(B) 1 gold medal commemorating the life of
Mary Jackson.
(4) One gold medal in recognition of all
women who served as computers, mathe-
maticians, and engineers at the National Ad-
visory Committee for Aeronautics and the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion between the 1930s and the 1970s (referred
to in this section as ‘‘recognized women’’).
(b) DESIGN AND STRIKING.—For the purpose
of the awards under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary of the Treasury (referred to in this
Act as the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall strike each
gold medal described in that subsection with
suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions,
to be determined by the Secretary.
(c) TRANSFER OF CERTAIN MEDALS AFTER
PRESENTATION.—
(1) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—After the award of the
gold medal commemorating the life of Doro-
thy Vaughan under subsection (a)(3)(A) and
the award of the gold medal in recognition of
recognized women under subsection (a)(4),
those medals shall be given to the Smithso-
nian Institution where the medals shall be—
(i) available for display, as appropriate;
and
(ii) made available for research.
(B) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the Smithsonian Institution
should make the gold medals received under
subparagraph (A) available for—
(i) display, particularly at the National
Museum of African American History and
Culture; or
(ii) loan, as appropriate, so that the medals
may be displayed elsewhere.
(2) TRANSFER TO FAMILY.—After the award
of the gold medal in honor of Mary Jackson
under subsection (a)(3)(B), the medal shall be
given to her granddaughter, Wanda Jackson.
SEC. 4. DUPLICATE MEDALS.
Under regulations that the Secretary may
promulgate, the Secretary may strike and
sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medals
struck under this Act, at a price sufficient to
cover the cost of the medals, including labor,
materials, dies, use of machinery, and over-
head expenses.
SEC. 5. STATUS OF MEDALS.
(a) NATIONAL MEDALS.—The medals struck
under this Act are national medals for pur-
poses of chapter 51 of title 31, United States
Code.
(b) NUMISMATIC ITEMS.—For purposes of
sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United
States Code, all medals struck under this
Act shall be considered to be numismatic
items.
SEC. 6. AUTHORITY TO USE FUND AMOUNTS;
PROCEEDS OF SALE.
(a) AUTHORITY TO USE FUND AMOUNTS.—
There is authorized to be charged against the
United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund
such amounts as may be necessary to pay for
the costs of the medals struck under this
Act.
(b) PROCEEDS OF SALE.—Amounts received
from the sale of duplicate bronze medals au-
thorized under section 4 shall be deposited
into the United States Mint Public Enter-
prise Fund.
f
RESOLUTIONS SUBMITTED TODAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate now proceed to the en bloc consid-
eration of the following Senate resolu-
tions which were submitted earlier
today: S. Res. 125, S. Res. 126, and S.
Res. 127.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolutions
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolutions be agreed
to, the preambles be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table, all en
bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolutions were agreed to.
The preambles were agreed to.
(The resolutions, with their pre-
ambles, are printed in today’s RECORD
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, MARCH
28, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Thursday, March
28; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate resume con-
sideration of the motion to proceed to
H.R. 268.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the previous order.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:33 p.m.,
adjourned until Thursday, March 28,
2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:09 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR6.010 S27MRPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E357
March 27, 2019
CONGRATULATING BLAIR OAKS
HIGH SCHOOL FOR WINNING THE
2018 MISSOURI CLASS 2 STATE
FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to ask my colleagues to join me in
congratulating the Blair Oaks Falcons Football
team for winning the 2018 Missouri Class 2
State Football Championship.
With a perfect record of 15–0, the Blair
Oaks Falcons Football team and coaching
staff should be commended for all of their
hard work throughout this past year and for
bringing home the state championship to their
school and community.
Please join me in congratulating the coach-
ing staff: Ted LePage; assistant coaches:
Kevin Alewine, Lerone Briggs, John Butler,
Mike Cook, Josh Linnenbrink, Mason Swisher,
Andrew Terpstra; manager: Ben Stockman;
and the players: Kamron Morriss, Jayden
Purdy, Nolan Hair, Gavin Wekenborg, Seth
DeWesplore, Cade Stockman, Zach Herigon,
Cobi Marble, Carson Prenger, Sam
Luebbering, Jake Closser, Ian Nolph, Braydan
Pritchett, Riley Lentz, Cadon Garber, Levi
Haney, Josh Bischoff, Hayden Ellis, Adam
Hughes, Zach Goeller, Trinity Scott, Griffin
Herst, Kyler Griep, Adam Jurgensmeyer,
Collin Branum, Jordan Keesler, Nico Canale,
Conner Wilson, Nolan Atnip, John Benward,
Zack Wilbers, Carson Bax, Cale Willson,
Caleb Buechter, James Thomson, Austin
Lange, Corban Bonnett, Shane Gillmore, An-
drew Luebbering, Rylee Niekamp, Benner
Thomas, Ayden Chouinard, Isaiah Prenger,
Grant Laune, and Marcus Edler on their dedi-
cation to the game and focus throughout the
season.
I ask you to join me in recognizing the Blair
Oaks Falcons Football team for a job well
done.
f
HONORING RUTH WOLFE JOHNSON
HON. GREG PENCE
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor my friend, Ruth Johnson, who recently
passed away at the age of 86 in Columbus,
Indiana.
Born in Sullivan County, Ruth was the
eighth child of Ora and Ann Wolfe. She at-
tended Indiana State University and then went
to work at Shell Oil Company. Ruth met—and
later married—Dick Johnson, who had pur-
chased a Shell distributorship in Columbus.
Ruth and Dick worked together to grow the
Johnson Oil Company.
Ruth played an integral role in the Colum-
bus community and throughout the State of In-
diana. Ruth’s extraordinary civic leadership in-
cluded service through many social organiza-
tions including PEO, Harrison Lake Garden
Club and the Monday literary club. Ruth ac-
tively supported Indiana University and served
on the advisory boards for the School of Arts
and Sciences and Jacobs School of Music.
Ruth and Dick were part of a small group
that cofounded Fairlawn Presbyterian Church
in 1961. She and Dick donated property for
the Salvation Army to build a support center,
sponsored the Johnson Center for Entrepre-
neurship at I.U., the Johnson Distinguished
Guest Artist series at the Columbus Phil-
harmonic, and publication of ‘‘The Birds of In-
diana’’ by Bill Zimmerman.
The Pence family knew Ruth for many years
and considered her a close friend. Ruth was
a generous person who will be remembered
fondly and greatly missed.
Ruth is survived by her children, Jenny
Johnson of Nashville, Rick Johnson (Alice) of
Columbus; two grandchildren, Richard ‘‘Ricky’’
Loomis Johnson III and Ann ‘‘Annie’’ Elizabeth
Johnson.
May god rest her soul and bring comfort to
her family and friends as we mourn her loss
and celebrate her life here on earth.
f
RECOGNIZING MASON DAUGHERTY
AND ELI SCOTT
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Mason Daugherty and Eli Scott
from McKinney, Texas on winning the 2019
C–SPAN video documentary competition.
Their documentary, ‘‘What it Means to be
American: Citizen Accountability in Govern-
ment’’ highlights how the United States Con-
stitution intended to instill power within the
American people and how corruption within
our system of government diverts that power
away from individuals.
Like these impressive 11th graders from
Imagine International Academy of North
Texas, I too believe power must rest with we
the people. Working together, we can bring
about real change in Washington.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
in the House of Representatives join me today
in congratulating Mason Daugherty and Eli
Scott on their achievement.
f
CODY MAIER
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Cody Maier
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Cody Maier is a student at Arvada High
School and received this award because his
determination and hard work have allowed him
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Cody Maier
is exemplary of the type of achievement that
can be attained with hard work and persever-
ance. It is essential students at all levels strive
to make the most of their education and de-
velop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Cody Maier for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
INTRODUCTION OF DUI REPORTING
ACT OF 2019
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in support of the DUI Reporting Act, a bill I in-
troduced today with my colleague, STEVE
CHABOT, along with the support of Mothers
Against Drunk Driving.
If enacted, this bill would address the loop-
hole in our nation’s drunk-driving laws that en-
ables repeat DUI offenders to be charged and
tried as first-time offenders because of incon-
sistent reporting.
Currently, when police make a drunk driving
arrest, they don’t always have access to infor-
mation about all of the driver’s previous ar-
rests for driving under the influence.
The reason is because not all police depart-
ments report DUI arrests to either the National
Crime Information Center, or ‘‘NCIC’’ for short,
or the Next Generation Identification database,
or ‘‘NGI,’’ which are the national crime data-
bases that can be made instantly available to
police right from their patrol cars.
The consequences of this lack of reporting
can prove tragic. Just a few years ago there
was a terrible accident in northern Mississippi,
just outside of my Congressional District. Two
teenagers from Memphis were killed when the
car they were driving was struck by a drunk
driver who had accrued seven DUI charges
since 2008 and had been allowed to plead
guilty five times to a first-offense DUI.
When the law enforcement officer ran the
suspect’s driving record in the national data-
base, his past DUI convictions never showed
up.
This is shameful. A DUI somewhere should
be recognized as a DUI anywhere. It should
not matter where you were caught driving
drunk. If you drive drunk, previous offenses
should be recorded and penalties should in-
crease so innocent lives can be saved.
The accrual of multiple first-time DUI of-
fenses is unconscionable and must be ended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K27MR8.001 E27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E358 March 27, 2019
Our bill will save lives by enacting common-
sense, bipartisan reforms to harmonize report-
ing standards for DUI offenses across the
states.
I urge my colleagues to help pass it quickly.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE SUP-
PORTING CHILDREN OF THE NA-
TIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE
ACT
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, according
to the U.S. Department of Education, more
than 80 percent of military-connected children
attend public schools. In 2011, the Govern-
ment Accountability Office reported that data
concerning the academic outcomes of these
students was limited. In response, Congress
passed the Every Student Succeeds Act,
which included the military student identifier to
require that public schools identify and report
on the academic outcomes of military-con-
nected students.
However, the military student identifier only
includes children with a parent who is on ac-
tive-duty in the Armed Forces. Children whose
parents serve in the National Guard or Re-
serve Components are excluded from the mili-
tary student identifier unless that parent
serves full-time. These children still face
unique challenges and stressors as members
of the National Guard and Reserves often de-
ploy within their respective state in response
to state emergencies, directives, or while in
training.
Therefore, the Supporting Children of the
National Guard and Reserve Act expands the
military student identifier to include children of
the National Guard and Reserves.
This simple and straightforward change will
provide invaluable data for educators, parents,
and policymakers to understand the academic
outcomes of all military-connected students.
f
CIERRA MARTINEZ
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Cierra Mar-
tinez for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Cierra Martinez is a student at Jefferson Jr/
Sr. and received this award because her de-
termination and hard work have allowed her to
overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Cierra Mar-
tinez is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Cierra Martinez for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
IN HONOR OF CHESTER ELKIN
HON. ANDY BARR
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. BARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of a special man, Mr. Chester
Elkin, of Madison County, Kentucky. Mr. Elkin
is part of a special group of heroes that
served our nation during World War II.
Mr. Elkin was born in the small community
of Wallaceton in 1919. He served in the Army
Air Corps from 1941 to 1946. Mr. Elkin was
assigned to an airbase on Ie Jima Island, Oki-
nawa, where he led the development of a run-
way for landing our aircraft. At the war’s end,
he was chosen to be in charge of receiving
Japanese aircraft and their pilots as they sur-
rendered. Mr. Elkin earned the American The-
ater Medal, American Defense Medal, Asiatic
Pacific Theater Medal with 2 bronze stars,
Good Conduct Ribbon, and the Victory Medal
for his service in the war.
Mr. Elkin was a civic minded person from a
young age and worked to benefit his commu-
nity. While still in high school, he became the
driver of his community’s first school bus. At
the age of 17, he opened a general store so
local citizens would not have to travel to get
needed supplies. He later bought property in
and around Berea, enabling him to provide nu-
merous new businesses and create jobs. He
served on many committees and civic organi-
zations for the Berea community. He was a
part owner in Renfro Valley Entertainment,
which draws visitors from all over the world.
He has been an active member of the
Wallaceton Baptist Church since he was a
teenager. He has been a member of the
American Legion Post 50 in Berea for many
years. For 30 years, he served as County
Game Warden. Mr. Elkin’s involvement over
many years resulted in improvements to the
quality of life in Berea.
Mr. Elkin and his fellow veterans are true
heroes. As members of the ‘‘Greatest Genera-
tion,’’ they willingly served to protect and de-
fend the freedoms that we enjoy today. I am
humbled to honor the service of Mr. Chester
Elkin before the United States Congress.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ROSS SPANO
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I was not
present for votes on March 5 through 6, 2019
due to an illness. Had I been present, I would
have voted Yea on Roll Call No. 104; Yea on
Roll Call No. 105; Nay on Roll Call No. 106;
and Nay on Roll Call No. 107.
f
MIGUEL MAY
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Miguel May
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Miguel May is a student at Arvada High
School and received this award because his
determination and hard work have allowed him
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Miguel May
is exemplary of the type of achievement that
can be attained with hard work and persever-
ance. It is essential students at all levels strive
to make the most of their education and de-
velop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Miguel May for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
CONGRATULATING THE RECIPI-
ENTS OF THE 2019 H.E.B. ISD
AWARDS OF EXCELLENCE
HON. KENNY MARCHANT
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. MARCHANT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate thirty-three outstanding
students from the Hurst-Euless-Bedford Inde-
pendent School District who have been award-
ed the district’s Awards of Excellence for the
2018–2019 school year.
The following students have been selected
to receive this award due to their meritorious
achievements within their respected dis-
ciplines. These students possess unique tal-
ents and experiences that have enabled their
tremendous success within a diverse field of
subjects, which include visual and performing
arts, business and industry, science, mathe-
matics, and communications, to name just a
few.
Jack Alcorn, Troy Curtsinger, Davonia
Williams, Jerry Manyvanh, Tristen Strawn,
Alina Yoo, Martha Hernandez, Shakyria
Bagley, Zachary Campbell, Khusbu Dalal,
Jenna French, Alexa Hassell, Lauren Hill,
Erin Millican, Mason Ornelas, Beverlyn
Osoro, Nicholas Pena, Isabela Ponce, Coleen
Roche, Haley Sawatis, Lauren Adams, Hadee
Al Hassanawi, Eric Carlsen, Chloe Crane,
Samuel Cusack, Jordan Edwards, Timothy
Harris, Dylan Hurt, Nicholas Munoz, Aaron
Norgaard, Jake Peters, Allan Stevens, Nel-
son Tran.
Through their hard work and dedication,
these young men and women have built a
strong foundation on which to continue their
growth and education.
In addition to recognizing the students, I
would like to take this opportunity to thank the
fine educators who have worked to ensure the
needs of these students are met and their tal-
ents are nurtured. It is with great pleasure that
I recognize the following teachers from Hurst
Hills Elementary, Central Junior High, L.D.
Bell, Buinger CTE Academy, KEYS, and Trin-
ity High School for their unwavering support of
these students:
Lauren Allen, Carolyn Allen, Jo Ann
Antinone, Ricky Balthrop, Jennifer
Brockman, Tammy Brown, Richard
Campanaro, Mario Casanova, Kathleen
Chase, Trasa Cobern, Amanda Collins, Ken-
neth Davis, Christine Davis, Michael Dean,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR8.001 E27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E359
March 27, 2019
Blanca Diaz, Logan Douglass, Kendal Fries,
Cherie Gibson, Paul Gibson, Candace Harris,
Catherine Kazyaka, Sarah Keith, Laurel
Kuepker, Van Mathews, Allen Matthews,
Karen McCurdy, Joseph Mendenhall, Court-
ney Miller, Jennifer Muirhead, Ann Nadeau,
Louise Payblas, Vandana Rajpurohit, David
Rawls.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to recognize
these outstanding students and teachers on
this monumental achievement. I ask all my
distinguished colleagues to join me in con-
gratulating the recipients of the 2019 HEB ISD
Awards of Excellence.
f
JAKE McBRYDE
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Jake McBryde
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Jake McBryde is a student at North Arvada
Middle School and received this award be-
cause his determination and hard work have
allowed him to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Jake
McBryde is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Jake
McBryde for winning the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award. I have
no doubt he will exhibit the same dedication
and character in all of his future accomplish-
ments.
f
HONORING DUANA BREMER
HON. SEAN P. DUFFY
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. DUFFY. Madam Speaker, I proudly rise
today to honor Duana Bremer, Director of Sal-
vation Army’s St. Croix and Polk County Wis-
consin programs.
Duana has dedicated her life to serving the
most vulnerable among us. I have seen the in-
credible work she does day in and day out,
serving families in our community by showing
them the path to personal growth and sustain-
ability. Her commitment and experience
makes her an invaluable asset to our work as
legislators. Duana testified before the House
Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing
and Insurance on May 17, 2018 at a hearing
titled, ‘‘An Overview of Homelessness in
America,’’ in which she provided valuable in-
sight into what the homeless experience is like
for those living in rural areas such as Wis-
consin.
With the help of Duana, the Family Self-Suf-
ficiency Act and the Housing Choice Voucher
Mobility Demonstration Act have been signed
into law. Both of these pieces of legislation will
help break the multi-generational cycle of pov-
erty in our communities.
It’s easy to see the value of Duana’s leader-
ship in the fight against homelessness. All you
need to do is talk to her team around her. The
staff and volunteers at Grace Place describe
her as, ‘‘a fantastic leader and a champion for
those in need. Her efforts to secure funding
and bring programs into rural communities that
will help the most vulnerable are truly inspir-
ing. She never gives up and her tireless ef-
forts are an inspiration.’’
Duana truly is an inspiration. And on behalf
of the residents of Wisconsin’s 7th Congres-
sional District, I would like to thank Duana
Bremer, for her selfless commitment to fami-
lies in need.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 100 LADIES OF
DEERING
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of the 100 Ladies of
Deering, a philanthropic women’s organization
dedicated to preserving the Deering Estate, a
pillar of South Florida history. As Women’s
History Month comes to an end, I am proud to
honor the 100 Ladies of Deering for carrying
on the long tradition of Miami women working
tirelessly on behalf of our community.
Listed on the National Register of Historic
Places, the Deering Estate is the 1920’s era
Miami home of Charles Deering, an industri-
alist, preservationist, and environmentalist.
The work of the 100 Ladies of Deering is vital
to the preservation the Estate, and more
broadly, to keeping our South Florida commu-
nity connected to our shared history.
The 100 Ladies of Deering are deeply in-
volved in the maintenance of the Deering Es-
tate, including the Stone House, Richmond
Cottage, outbuildings, grounds, and natural
areas. Today, visitors can explore these sites
as they would have appeared when Charles
Deering occupied the Estate in the 1920’s.
The 100 Ladies of Deering provide resources
and assistance for the 444-acre Estate’s his-
toric furnishings. They preserve original ob-
jects in their original settings, recreate the
scenes of daily life on the Estate, and create
a period setting for original objects. As anyone
who has visited can attest, the furnishings
evoke a powerful experience of time and
space while providing witness to past events
and personalities.
The 100 Ladies of Deering exemplify ex-
traordinary dedication to the South Florida
community. I am pleased to celebrate their
achievements as community leaders, philan-
thropists, and Miami women.
f
HONORING THE LOWVILLE AMER-
ICAN LEGION POST 162 ON THEIR
CENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the American Legion as a
whole and specifically, The Lowville American
Legion Post 162 on their 100th anniversary.
The American Legion was chartered by
Congress in September 1919 after members
of the American Expeditionary Force, who
fought in World War I, convened to create an
organization to represent veterans of that con-
flict. Today, the American Legion focuses on
serving veterans, current service members
children and communities with a membership
numbering over two million from 13,000 posts
worldwide. The American Legion, under the
leadership of its National Commander Brett
Reistad, continues to grow and advocate on
behalf of those who have served our nation
with honor and distinction.
One of the very first posts to come into ex-
istence in the months following the creation of
the American Legion was the Lowville Amer-
ican Legion Post 162. The National organiza-
tion came into existence in March 1919 and
the Lowville post was founded just three
months later, in June. Since then, they have
been a leading post, sending members to
serve on national, state, and district commit-
tees. They have made an indelible impact on
the Lowville community over the past century
and I wish them continued success. On behalf
of New York’s 21st District, I want to congratu-
late them on this milestone and thank them for
their century-long tradition of service.
f
NOZYONNA McCALL
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Nozyonna
McCall for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Nozyonna McCall is a student at Jefferson
Jr/Sr. and received this award because her
determination and hard work have allowed her
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Nozyonna
McCall is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Nozyonna McCall for winning the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award. I have no doubt she will exhibit the
same dedication and character in all of her fu-
ture accomplishments.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF FLORIDA B. THOMAS
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and legacy of Mrs. Flor-
ida B. Thomas. Florida was a selfless member
of her community and spent her life serving
others. She was a woman of strong values
and always worked to help her community
through her church and her jobs as a teacher
and librarian.
Florida was born in Tallahassee, Florida in
1938. She attended Florida A&M University
where she received her Bachelor of Science
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A27MR8.005 E27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E360 March 27, 2019
degree in Library Science, before continuing
her education at the University of South Flor-
ida where she received a Master’s in Adminis-
tration and Supervision.
She served for 59 years at Greater Friend-
ship Missionary Baptist Church, where she
was on the finance committee and served as
a choir member and secretary. In addition to
serving at her church, Florida worked for 40
years as a teacher within the Hendry County
School System. After retiring from teaching,
Florida felt she could still serve her community
so she began working as a full-time librarian
at the Harlem Library where she worked until
she retired in 2014.
Throughout her career, Florida was recog-
nized again and again for her hard work and
dedication to those around her. She was the
first black librarian in the state of Florida within
the integrated school system and was named
‘‘Children Intermediate School (CIS) Teacher
of the Year’’ in 1987. She was also an active
member of The Order of the Eastern Star fra-
ternity. In May, 2017 the Harlem Community
Library was re-named in her honor, and now
serves the community as the Florida B. Thom-
as Library. And, just last year, she was hon-
ored with The Heritage Award for 2018.
Madam Speaker, Florida Thomas was a
champion for her community and she posi-
tively impacted the lives of many in Harlem
and surrounding communities. I extend my
deepest condolences to her husband, Melvin,
and the rest of her friends and family during
this extremely difficult time. Florida Thomas
was a blessing to our community and I am
proud to honor her memory today. She will be
dearly missed.
f
IN HONOR OF THE 25TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE NEW HAMPSHIRE
POLICE ASSOCIATION PIPES AND
DRUMS
HON. CHRIS PAPPAS
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PAPPAS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the New Hampshire Police Asso-
ciation Pipes and Drums as they celebrate
their 25th anniversary. In October of 1994,
New Hampshire State Police Sergeant James
Noyes was shot and killed during a standoff
with an armed barricaded subject. Inspired by
the Boston Police Gaelic Column’s perform-
ance at Sergeant Noyes’s funeral, members of
the New Hampshire Police Association set out
to create a pipes and drums band of their
own. Coming together from various police de-
partments across the state, a small group was
assembled in December of 1994 and made its
official debut in 1996 during the New Hamp-
shire Police memorial in Concord.
Ever since, this distinguished band has
grown in size and notoriety. We gather to cel-
ebrate a quarter century of this effort, and to
acknowledge and honor the life of Sergeant
James Noyes and of every New Hampshire
law enforcement officer who has been trag-
ically killed in the line of duty.
Sergeant Noyes’s sacrifice is a humbling re-
minder about the acute danger our brave po-
lice officers face each day as they put their
lives on the line to keep our communities safe.
Their service deserves our appreciation and
our undying support. In order to truly honor
their service and sacrifice, we need to do
more than pay lip service to their effort. As
elected leaders, we have a responsibility to
fight for additional resources that allow them
to do their jobs effectively for the rest of us.
In order to properly serve New Hampshire’s
First District and pay appropriate respect to
the services we are lucky to receive from our
New Hampshire police officers, I am com-
mitted to fighting on their behalf in Congress,
to guarantee that our law enforcement officials
have the resources they need to combat the
opioid crisis, keep our streets safe, and pro-
tect our communities from harm.
Congratulations to the New Hampshire Po-
lice Association Pipes and Drums on 25 years
of excellence. It is my honor to serve them as
the Representative of New Hampshire’s First
Congressional District.
f
KENDALL McCOY
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Kendall
McCoy for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Kendall McCoy is a student at The Manning
School and received this award because her
determination and hard work have allowed her
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Kendall
McCoy is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Ken-
dall McCoy for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
f
RECOGNIZING VICKI HAUGEN’S 37
YEARS AT VERMILION ADVAN-
TAGE
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Vicki Haugen, who took over
leadership of Vermilion Advantage 37 years
ago.
Vermilion Advantage is the lead economic
development office for Vermilion County, Illi-
nois. Vicki began her tenure at Vermilion Ad-
vantage during a time when the business envi-
ronment in Danville and Vermilion County was
in turmoil. Major businesses, which had con-
tributed for many years to the financial and
economic health of the community, were leav-
ing or considering doing so. Rather than be
defeated by these setbacks, Vicki enlisted
other community leaders to pull together and
develop a coordinated plan to keep the losses
to a minimum and attract replacements for
those business that left.
Vicki saw early on that if the community was
to survive and prosper, the political, business,
education, and community leaders would need
to work together. This became the focus of
Vermilion Advantage. More than simply an ad-
vocate for the community, Vicki had a com-
prehensive vision focused on creating the next
generation of community leaders and a skilled
and educated workforce, diversifying the eco-
nomic base of the county, and developing a
cooperative environment between labor and
management, to name just a few of her initia-
tives.
A major component of what Vicki has done
is sell outside companies to the advantages of
locating their operations in Vermilion County.
Doing this for several decades has likely made
Vicki the most informed and effective cham-
pion of Vermilion County. Her steady efforts
over the past 37 years has had an inestimable
impact on the community that she cares so
much for.
Indeed, Vicki’s efforts are a labor of love.
She grew up in Vermilion County, graduated
from Danville High School, and lives in the
community she helped remake. Her tireless ef-
forts, mental toughness, professionalism, and
unshakable faith that Vermilion County was
worth trying to save has made a difference
worthy of recognition.
Madam Speaker, it is my pleasure and
honor to rise today to recognize Vicki Haugen
and to thank her for her leadership of
Vermilion Advantage for these past 37 years.
That leadership, by the way, has led to the
creation of well over four thousand full-time
jobs and counting. I wish Vicki all the best and
Vermilion Advantage continued success.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KATIE PORTER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Ms. PORTER. Madam Speaker, I was un-
able to be present for votes on Monday,
March 25, 2019. Had I been present, I would
have vote YES on Roll Call vote 126.
f
LEAH MENDOZA
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Leah Men-
doza for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Leah Mendoza is a student at Mandalay
Middle School and received this award be-
cause her determination and hard work have
allowed her to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Leah Men-
doza is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Leah
Mendoza for winning the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award. I have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A27MR8.009 E27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E361
March 27, 2019
no doubt she will exhibit the same dedication
and character in all of her future accomplish-
ments.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF BELOVED
CAPITAL REGION EDUCATOR ER-
NEST D. STECK
HON. PAUL TONKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. TONKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the legacy of beloved community
leader, veteran and educator Ernest D. Steck
who passed away in February.
Mr. Steck was a symbol of virtue and dis-
cipline to many in our Capital Region Our
community owes him a debt of gratitude for
his commitment to educating and shaping the
minds of the young men under his tutelage,
both in his history classroom and on the foot-
ball field.
Ernest was born in Rock Island, Illinois and
grew up in Chicago and Brooklyn during the
Great Depression He enlisted and served in
the U.S. Army during World War II and fought
in the Pacific Theater. After the war, he went
back to school to earn his undergraduate and
advanced degrees in physical education at the
University of Iowa.
After brief stints teaching in Bridgeport, Con-
necticut and Providence, Rhode Island, Ernest
moved to Albany and brought his love of
teaching to the Albany Academy, where he
taught from 1953 to 1991. He also coached
football, basketball, track, and tennis Each dis-
cipline provided a welcome opportunity for Er-
nest to share the principles that guided his life:
the importance of hard work, discipline, and
integrity. These earned him the respect of his
colleagues and students. Classrooms were
known to fall silent before he arrived while stu-
dents waited eagerly for him to speak.
Ernest’s legacy of service earned him a pro-
motion to athletic director and a spot in the
Capital Region Hall of Fame in August of
2014. If not reminding his teams that ‘‘cool
heads win games,’’ he could be found virtually
silent on the sidelines He believed in allowing
the students to call their own plays, giving
them a chance to develop team unity and
trust. His creative approaches worked time
and time again. In 1970, the Albany Academy
football team won the State Championship for
small high schools. He led a record-achieving
championship streak until 1982. Students he
coached referred to themselves as ‘‘Ernie’s
Boys,’’ a moniker that denoted their respect
and appreciation Even to people who never
stepped foot on a court or entered an arena,
Ernest was legendary.
Above all, Ernest was a proud family man
His legacy lives on in his sons David and Phil-
lip and grandchildren Kaylee, James, Alex-
andra, and Aaron He was laid to rest in late
February alongside his wife Roselyn. To those
who knew him, loved him, and were made
better by his presence, I offer my sincere con-
dolences.
May we all take inspiration from the incred-
ible service and courage of Ernest Steck and
honor his legacy for years to come.
WOMEN’S HISTORY MONTH
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
to commemorate Women’s History Month.
I want to offer a special mention for the U.S.
House of Representatives women firsts:
Congresswoman Jeanette Rankin of Mon-
tana who was the first elected woman member
of the House of Representatives;
Congresswoman Patsy Mink of Hawaii was
the first woman of color and the first Asian
American woman elected to Congress;
Congresswoman Shirley Anita Chisholm of
New York who was the first African-American
Congresswoman member of the House of
Representatives; and
Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen whom
we have the honor of working with is the first
Hispanic woman elected to serve in Congress.
National Women’s History Month’s roots go
back to March 8, 1857, when women from
New York City factories staged a protest over
working conditions.
International Women’s Day was first ob-
served in 1909.
In 1981, Congress passed a law authorizing
the President to proclaim March 7, 1982 as
‘‘Women’s History Week.’’ It was a modest be-
ginning, but very significant to women be-
cause it started a societal and cultural change
in how women—and especially young girls
saw themselves within the American story.
In 1987, Congress expanded the week to a
month. Every year since, Congress has
passed a resolution for Women’s History
Month, and the President has issued a procla-
mation.
This month we recognize Women’s History
Month by noting the fundamental role women
have played in shaping America’s history. But
I say to you that a month is not enough to
make known the significant contributions of
women to the success of the United States of
America.
We taught our girls about Rose the Riveter
who represented the millions of American
women who went to work on assembly lines to
manufacture tanks, planes, and weapons for
the defense of this nation during World War II.
We have many American Women heroes in
the STEM area like: Sally Kristen Ride, the
first woman sent into space; Eileen Marie Col-
lins, the first woman space shuttle pilot; and
Grace Murray Hopper an American computer
scientist and United States Navy rear admiral.
Admiral Hopper developed the first compiler
for a computer programming language, which
made it possible to program computers with-
out using punch cards.
The Shriver Report, ‘‘A Woman’s Nation
Pushes Back from the Brink:’’ Some Rec-
ommended Steps for Government Businesses,
and Women reported on the economic health
of the average American woman.
Today, women make up half the U.S. work-
force, but the average full time working
woman earns only 77 percent of what the av-
erage full time working man makes.
And that is why the House must pass H.R.
7, the Paycheck Fairness Act, when it comes
to the floor for debate and vote.
There are many women in the State of
Texas and in the city of Houston who have
made significant contributions to the American
story:
Congresswoman Barbara Jordan of Texas
was the first African American woman elected
to the House of Representatives;
Kathryn ‘‘Kathy’’ Whitmire was the first
woman elected to serve in Houston City gov-
ernment; and
Mae Carol Jemison, the first African Amer-
ican woman astronaut.
These many accomplishments does not
mean there is not more that needs to be done.
There is still a long way for women to go
according the Shriver Report.
Women are more than 50 percent of the
population and more than 50 percent of the
votes.
A woman working full time, all year at a
minimum-wage job, or a job close to the min-
imum wage, will not be able to bring her family
above the poverty line.
Families need an income closer to 200 per-
cent of the federal poverty threshold to escape
the brink.
In the Shriver Report’s survey:
73 percent of Americans said that in order
to raise the incomes of working women and
their families, they strongly favor the govern-
ment ensuring that women get equal pay for
equal work;
79 percent of Americans said the govern-
ment should expand access to high-quality, af-
fordable childcare for working families;
Almost 60 percent of Americans said
women raising children on their own face tre-
mendous challenges and should be helped fi-
nancially by government, employers, and com-
munities; and
If we are going to win the war on poverty
we must wage and win the war of discrimina-
tion of women in the workforce.
Pay inequality is not just a women’s issue—
it is a family income equality issue.
In 2012, Texas’ ranked second among the
50 states among with workers earning at or
below the federal minimum wage.
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics of the 6.1 million workers are paid hour-
ly rates in Texas in 2012,
In Texas 282,000 earned exactly the pre-
vailing federal minimum wage of $7.25 per
hour, while 170,000 earned less.
From 2011 to 2012, the number of Texas
workers who earned at or below the federal
minimum wage was 7.5 percent. The percent-
age of workers earning less than the federal
minimum 2012 was 2.8 percent, while the
share earning exactly the minimum wage was
4.7 percent.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
help celebrate Women’s History month by be-
coming cosponsors of H.R. 863.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE OF BILLY
MARTIN
HON. TRENT KELLY
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate the life of Billy Martin,
who passed away on Sunday, January 27th at
the age of 52.
Billy, a native of Gulfport, Mississippi, grad-
uated from Gulfport High School and attended
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K27MR8.010 E27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E362 March 27, 2019
Gulf Coast Community College. He went on to
be an ice cream delivery driver for Blue Bell
Ice Cream for over ten years. It was during
this time that he began investing in the lives
of young adults at Resurrection Life Worship
Center in Picayune, Mississippi. After his time
at Blue Bell, he accepted a full-time position at
RLM serving as the administrator for over ten
years. It was in this role that Bill’s heart of
service out shined all those around him.
In a world where everyone seems to be
dead set on self-promotion and self-advance-
ment, Billy found his joy in serving others. In
a world where people are going to extreme
lengths to draw attention to themselves, Billy
went the extra mile to draw attention to others.
In a world where it’s common to see people
broadcast their own accomplishments, Billy
was a megaphone for the achievements and
good qualities of others. In a time when every-
one wants to see their dreams fulfilled, Billy
saw fit to spend his time helping fulfill the
dreams of others.
Billy’s life is one that should be celebrated
and remembered. His legacy of obedience to
God and selfless service to others lives on in
all the lives he touched.
Left to cherish his memory are his wife and
best friend of 17 years, Jameye Hickman Mar-
tin of Picayune, his mother, Shirley Martin; his
siblings, Randy (Karen) Martin and Terri
(Tony) Zbysinski, of the Mississippi Gulf
Coast; his brothers-in-law, Rev. Allen (Amy)
Hickman of Picayune and Andrew (Karen)
Hickman of Brookhaven, 17 nephews and
nieces and 9 great-nephews and great-nieces.
f
HONORING BELOVED ALBANY
RESTAURANT LOMBARDO’S
HON. PAUL TONKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. TONKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to bid a fond farewell to Lombardo’s, a historic
Albany, New York restaurant that was a be-
loved community staple for nearly a century
until its close earlier this year.
Charley Salvatore Lombardo opened what
would become this legendary family restaurant
in 1919 after making the journey to the United
States from Southern Italy. For decades,
Lombardo’s weathered the changing land-
scape of the Albany area, generation after
generation, never wavering in its service to
neighbors and cherished ability to bring people
together.
Whether looking for a bite to eat or a brief
respite from the demands of daily life,
Lombardo’s provided a hub of connection and
familiarity for the surrounding area. Many Al-
bany residents chose this establishment as
the setting to celebrate their milestones, from
birthdays to anniversaries to reunions. Artists
and authors found inspiration behind its doors.
Local entrepreneurs cite Lombardo’s as a
model that guided their ventures.
Lombardo’s memorable Art Deco design
and tiled floors saw their last public visitors in
December of 2018, but the spirit of the estab-
lishment lives on in the stories and memories
of its owners, its many servers and staffs, pa-
trons and friends. Thank you to everyone who
made Lombardo’s such a special place for our
community.
THOMAS MILLS
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Thomas Mills
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Thomas Mills is a student at Three Creeks
K–8 and received this award because his de-
termination and hard work have allowed him
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Thomas
Mills is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Thomas Mills for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
CONGRATULATING KAZAKHSTAN
ON THEIR PRESIDENTIAL TRAN-
SITION
HON. STEVE CHABOT
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. CHABOT. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the historic March 19 announce-
ment by former Kazakhstan President, Mr.
Nursultan Nazarbayev, who voluntarily and
peacefully resigned from his position as Presi-
dent and as the Head of State.
Kazakhstan’s Constitution was prepared for
such a scenario and calls for the Chairperson
of the Senate of the Parliament to step in and
take on the roles and responsibilities for the
remainder of the President’s term. This transi-
tion process, which will usher in the Chairman
of the Senate, Mr. Kassym-Jomart Tokayev,
as Head of State, is moving forward peacefully
and with little to no disruption, as all parties in-
volved remain committed to Kazakhstan’s fur-
ther development and prosperity, as well as
serving as a stabilizing force in the region. Ad-
ditionally, I call on President Tokayev to carry
out the reforms necessary to hold free and fair
elections in 2020, so that the people of
Kazakhstan can continue to strengthen their
democratic institutions.
For almost 30 years, Kazakhstan and the
United States have worked diligently to build a
strategic partnership based on mutual trust
and cooperation on important issues such as
economic investment, security, and cultural
exchanges. Both Kazakhstan and the United
States have made clear that this strategic
partnership and friendship will continue to
grow and expand under a new Head of State.
I applaud President Nazarbayev for his work
to create a strong and lasting relationship with
the United States. In 2018, the U.S. and
Kazakhstan signed numerous economic
agreements that have paved the way for more
than 700 American companies to invest over
$3.7 million in the last year alone. These in-
vestments support jobs and provide an eco-
nomic boost for both of our economies. In
partnership with American companies,
Kazakhstan launched the Astana International
Financial Center (AIFC) in 2018, which serves
as a trading and financing platform for foreign
and domestic investors, allowing Kazakhstan
to grow as a major financial hub in the region.
Kazakhstan and the United States have also
been constructive partners in promoting secu-
rity and stability around the world. Our two na-
tions work together closely to support peace in
Afghanistan and Central Asia through the
Strategic Partnership Dialogue, joint-military
efforts, and the C5+1 multilateral meetings.
Additionally, President Nazarbayev was instru-
mental in Kazakhstan being the first Central
Asian country to be elected to the United Na-
tions National Security Council, providing a
voice for the people of the region on a global
stage.
The United States welcomes this peaceful
transition of power in Kazakhstan as it re-
mains a reliable and trusted partner in Central
Asia and I congratulate Mr. Kassym-Jomart
Tokayev on his new role.
f
STEFAN MOE
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Stefan Moe
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Stefan Moe is a student at Drake Middle
School and received this award because his
determination and hard work have allowed him
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Stefan Moe
is exemplary of the type of achievement that
can be attained with hard work and persever-
ance. It is essential students at all levels strive
to make the most of their education and de-
velop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Ste-
fan Moe for winning the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award. I have
no doubt he will exhibit the same dedication
and character in all of his future accomplish-
ments.
f
HONORING ROY BENAVIDEZ
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and recognize Master Sergeant Roy
Benavidez.
My district is proud to claim as one of our
own Master Sergeant Roy Benavidez, a Medal
of Honor recipient who is among the most dis-
tinguished heroes in American history. On the
occasion of the Roy P. Benavidez Memorial
Highway Dedication, I would like to recognize
once more a man who exemplified courage,
sacrifice, and unbreakable determination.
Sergeant Benavidez, of El Campo, Texas,
was orphaned at a young age and dropped
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A27MR8.015 E27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E363
March 27, 2019
out of middle school to support his family be-
fore answering the call to service in Vietnam.
He recovered from a land mine injury to be-
come a Green Beret, and when a call for help
came in, he voluntarily boarded a rescue heli-
copter and put his own life on the line to save
his fellow soldiers.
Sergeant Benavidez was shot in the head
and the leg but continued working to load the
wounded onto the helicopter. As the helicopter
took off, the pilot was killed, and the helicopter
crashed. Sergeant Benavidez heroically car-
ried his wounded comrades off the helicopter
and spent what he described as ‘‘six hours in
hell’’ returning fire, calling in airstrikes, caring
for the wounded, and even recovering classi-
fied documents. He was shot multiple times,
bayoneted, clubbed, and hit by fragments from
a grenade, before finally dragging the soldiers
he came to rescue onto a second evacuation
helicopter. He saved the lives of at least eight
men.
In 1981, Sergeant Benavidez received the
Medal of Honor from President Reagan, who
noted that ‘‘if the story of his heroism were a
movie script, you would not believe it.’’ His
Medal of Honor citation declared that his
‘‘fearless personal leadership, tenacious devo-
tion to duty, and extremely valorous actions in
the face of overwhelming odds were in keep-
ing with the highest traditions of the military
service.’’
But his challenges were not over. Two years
later, he received notice that his disability ben-
efits were to be cut off, despite shrapnel in his
heart and constant pain. So he went before
Congress on behalf of his fellow veterans,
asking ‘‘if they can do this to me, what will
they do to all the others?’’ Thanks to the ef-
forts of Sergeant Benavidez, the President be-
came personally involved in the situation, and
the Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices announced reforms to the review process.
He devoted the rest of his life to service,
speaking to students about the importance of
education and inspiring American troops
around the world.
Sergeant Benavidez was a model of bravery
and selfless sacrifice, and it is right and fitting
to recognize his heroism by dedicating the
Roy P. Benavidez Memorial Highway in his
honor. May this highway serve not only as a
memorial to a great man but as an inspiration
to his fellow Texans to live with the same spirit
of courage and service.
f
JOSEPH MOLINARO
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Joseph
Molinaro for receiving the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Joseph Molinaro is a student at Drake Mid-
dle School and received this award because
his determination and hard work have allowed
him to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Joseph
Molinaro is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Jo-
seph Molinaro for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
March 28, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
APRIL 2
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of General Tod D. Wolters, USAF,
for reappointment to the grade of gen-
eral and to be Commander, United
States European Command and Su-
preme Allied Commander Europe, and
General Stephen J. Townsend, USA, for
reappointment to the grade of general
and to be Commander, United States
Africa Command.
SD–G50
Special Committee on Aging
To hold hearings to examine Alzheimer’s,
focusing on new directions in bio-
medical research and caregiving.
SD–106
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine the applica-
tion of environmental, social, and gov-
ernance principles in investing and the
role of asset managers, proxy advisors,
and other intermediaries.
SD–538
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the Presi-
dent’s proposed budget request for fis-
cal year 2020 for the Department of En-
ergy.
SD–366
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold oversight hearings to examine
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
SD–406
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
To hold hearings to examine reauthor-
izing HEA, focusing on addressing cam-
pus sexual assault and ensuring stu-
dent safety and rights.
SD–430
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine arbitration
in America.
SD–226
2 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies
To hold hearings to examine the pro-
posed budget estimates and justifica-
tion for fiscal year 2020 for the Depart-
ment of Commerce.
SD–G50
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Ron A. Bloom, of New York, to
be a Governor of the United States
Postal Service, and James A. Crowell
IV, and Jason Park, both of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, both to be an Asso-
ciate Judge of the Superior Court of
the District of Columbia.
SD–342
3 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Airland
To hold hearings to examine Army mod-
ernization in review of the Defense Au-
thorization Request for fiscal year 2020
and the future years defense program.
SR–232A
APRIL 3
9 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of the Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agen-
cies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Environmental
Protection Agency.
SD–124
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of Defense
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Defense Health
Program.
SD–192
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Business meeting to consider pending
calendar business.
SD–G50
2:15 p.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold hearings to examine women in-
ventors and the future of American in-
novation.
SD–226
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Energy and Water Devel-
opment
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the National Nu-
clear Security Administration.
SD–138
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing
and Urban Development, and Related
Agencies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Housing and Urban Development.
SD–192
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A27MR8.018 E27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E364 March 27, 2019
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
To hold hearings to examine Navy and
Marine Corps aviation programs in re-
view of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
SR–232A
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Strategic Forces
To hold hearings to examine missile de-
fense policies and programs in review
of the Defense Authorization Request
for fiscal year 2020 and the Future
Years Defense Program.
SR–222
Committee on Indian Affairs
To hold hearings to examine enhancing
tribal self-governance and safety of In-
dian roads.
SD–628
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold hearings to examine reauthoriza-
tion of the Small Business Administra-
tion’s access to capital programs.
SR–428A
3 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Senate Sergeant
at Arms and the United States Capitol
Police.
SD–124
APRIL 4
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the posture
of the Department of the Air Force in
review of the Defense Authorization
Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
SD–G50
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine unprece-
dented migration at the United States
southern border.
SD–342
APRIL 9
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the posture
of the Department of the Navy in re-
view of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
SD–G50
APRIL 10
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Indian Affairs
To hold hearings to examine building out
Indian country, focusing on tools for
community development.
SD–628
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M27MR8.000 E27MRPT1
D306
Wednesday, March 27, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2011–S2062
Measures Introduced: Thirty-five bills and eight
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S. 886–920,
S.J. Res. 15, S. Res. 122–127, and S. Con. Res. 9.
Pages S2042–44
Measures Passed:
Hidden Figures Congressional Gold Medal Act:
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
was discharged from further consideration of S. 590,
to award Congressional Gold Medals to Katherine
Johnson and Dr. Christine Darden, to posthumously
award Congressional Gold Medals to Dorothy
Vaughan and Mary Jackson, and to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to honor all of the women who
contributed to the success of the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration during the Space
Race, and the bill was then passed. Pages S2061–62
National Women’s History Month: Senate agreed
to S. Res. 125, designating March 2019 as ‘‘National
Women’s History Month’’. Page S2062
Public Schools Week: Senate agreed to S. Res.
126, expressing support for the designation of the
week of March 25 through March 29, 2019, as
‘‘Public Schools Week’’. Page S2062
Contributions of AmeriCorps Members and
Alumni: Senate agreed to S. Res. 127, recognizing
the contributions of AmeriCorps members and alum-
ni to the lives of the people of the United States.
Page S2062
Measures Considered:
Supplemental Appropriations Act—Agreement:
Senate continued consideration of the motion to pro-
ceed to consideration of H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019. Page S2011
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the motion to
proceed to consideration of the bill, post-cloture, at
approximately 10:00 a.m., on Thursday, March 28,
2019. Page S2062
Nason Nomination—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent-time agreement was reached providing that
at 1:30 p.m., on Thursday, March 28, 2019, Senate
begin consideration of the nomination of Nicole R.
Nason, of New York, to be Administrator of the
Federal Highway Administration, that there be 15
minutes of debate, equally divided in the usual form,
and that following the use or yielding back of time,
Senate vote on confirmation of the nomination, with
no intervening action or debate. Page S2061
Messages from the House: Page S2036
Measures Referred: Pages S2036–37
Measures Read the First Time: Page S2037
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S2037
Executive Communications: Pages S2037–40
Petitions and Memorials: Pages S2040–42
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S2042
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2044–45
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S2045–58
Additional Statements: Pages S2035–36
Amendments Submitted: Pages S2058–60
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S2060–61
Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and
adjourned at 6:33 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Thursday,
March 28, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S2062.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
APPROPRIATIONS: ARMY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of Defense concluded a hearing to examine
proposed budget estimates and justification for fiscal
year 2020 for the Army, after receiving testimony
from Mark T. Esper, Secretary of the Army, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D27MR9.REC D27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D307
March 27, 2019
General Mark A. Milley, Chief of Staff of the Army,
both of the Department of Defense.
APPROPRIATIONS: DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Trans-
portation, Housing and Urban Development, and
Related Agencies concluded a hearing to examine
proposed budget estimates and justification for fiscal
year 2020 for the Department of Transportation,
after receiving testimony from Elaine Chao, Secretary
of Transportation.
APPROPRIATIONS: DEPARTMENT OF
ENERGY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development concluded a hearing to ex-
amine proposed budget estimates and justification
for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Energy,
after receiving testimony from Rick Perry, Secretary
of Energy.
APPROPRIATIONS: LOC AND AOC
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Legisla-
tive Branch concluded a hearing to examine pro-
posed budget estimates and justification for fiscal
year 2020 for the Library of Congress and the Archi-
tect of the Capitol, after receiving testimony from
Carla D. Hayden, Librarian of Congress, Library of
Congress; and Christine Merdon, Acting Architect of
the Capitol.
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION REQUEST AND
FUTURE YEARS DEFENSE PROGRAM
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on
SeaPower concluded a hearing to examine Navy
shipbuilding programs in review of the Defense Au-
thorization Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program, after receiving testi-
mony from James F. Geurts, Assistant Secretary of
the Navy for Research, Development, and Acquisi-
tions, Vice Admiral William R. Merz, USN, Deputy
Chief of Naval Operations for Warfare Systems, and
Lieutenant General David H. Berger, USMC, Com-
manding General, Marine Corps Combat Develop-
ment Command and Deputy Commandant for Com-
bat Development and Integration, all of the Depart-
ment of Defense.
MILITARY SPACE OPERATIONS
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Stra-
tegic Forces concluded a hearing to examine military
space operations, policy, and programs, after receiv-
ing testimony from Kenneth P. Rapuano, Assistant
Secretary for Homeland Defense and Global Security,
Lieutenant General David D. Thompson, USAF,
Vice Commander, and Lieutenant General John F.
Thompson, USAF, Commander, Space and Missile
Systems Center, both of the Air Force Space Com-
mand, all of the Department of Defense; and
Cristina T. Chaplain, Director, Acquisition and
Sourcing Management, Government Accountability
Office.
HOUSING REFORM
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine Chair-
man’s housing reform outline, part II, including S.
603, to amend the Financial Stability Act of 2010
to require the Financial Stability Oversight Council
to consider alternative approaches before determining
that a U.S. nonbank financial company shall be su-
pervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, after receiving testimony from Mi-
chael Bright, Structured Finance Industry Group,
Lindsey D. Johnson, U.S. Mortgage Insurers, and
Michael D. Calhoun, Center for Responsible Lend-
ing, all of Washington, D.C.; Robert D. Broeksmit,
Mortgage Bankers Association, Chevy Chase, Mary-
land; Vince Malta, National Association of Realtors,
San Francisco, California; and Carrie Hunt, National
Association of Federally-Insured Credit Unions, Ar-
lington, Virginia.
2020 BUDGET
Committee on the Budget: Committee began consider-
ation of the concurrent resolution on the budget for
fiscal year 2020, but did not complete action there-
on, recessed subject to the call, and will meet again
on Thursday, March 28, 2019.
OUR BLUE ECONOMY
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine our blue
economy, focusing on successes and opportunities,
after receiving testimony from Mississippi Governor
Phil Bryant, Jackson; Michael J. Conathan, The
Aspen Institute, Washington, D.C.; and Scott Deal,
Maverick Boat Group, Fort Pierce, Florida.
THE STATE OF AIRLINE SAFETY
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Aviation and Space concluded a hear-
ing to examine the state of airline safety, focusing on
Federal oversight of commercial aviation, after re-
ceiving testimony from Daniel K. Elwell, Acting
Administrator, Federal Aviation Administration,
Robert L. Sumwalt, III, Chairman, National Trans-
portation Safety Board, and Calvin L. Scovel, III, In-
spector General, all of the Department of Transpor-
tation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D27MR9.REC D27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D308 March 27, 2019
COLORADO RIVER DROUGHT
CONTINGENCY PLAN
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Sub-
committee on Water and Power concluded a hearing
to examine the Colorado River Drought Contingency
Plan, after receiving testimony from Brenda Burman,
Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation, Department
of the Interior; Thomas Buschatzke, Director, Ari-
zona Department of Water Resources, Phoenix; John
J. Entsminger, General Manager, Southern Nevada
Water Authority, Las Vegas; and Patrick Tyrrell,
Wyoming State Engineer, Cheyenne.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine the nominations of Robert A.
Destro, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary for De-
mocracy, Human Rights, and Labor, who was intro-
duced by Senator Cassidy, Keith Krach, of Cali-
fornia, to be an Under Secretary (Economic Growth,
Energy, and the Environment), to be United States
Alternate Governor of the European Bank for Recon-
struction and Development, and to be United States
Alternate Governor of the International Bank for Re-
construction and Development, and United States
Alternate Governor of the Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank, who was introduced by Senators
Portman and Young, and David Stilwell, of Hawaii,
to be an Assistant Secretary (East Asian and Pacific
Affairs), all of the Department of State, after the
nominees testified and answered questions in their
own behalf.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OVERSIGHT
Committee on Rules and Administration: Committee
concluded an oversight hearing to examine the
Smithsonian Institution, after receiving testimony
from David J. Skorton, Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Com-
mittee ordered favorably reported the following busi-
ness items:
S. 771, to amend section 21 of the Small Business
Act to require cyber certification for small business
development center counselors;
S. 772, to require an annual report on the cyberse-
curity of the Small Business Administration, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 862, to repeal the sunset for collateral require-
ments for Small Business Administration disaster
loans; and
The nomination of David Christian Tryon, of
Ohio, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Busi-
ness Administration.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 47 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 9, 1895–1940; and 9 resolutions, H.
Con. Res. 27–28; and H. Res. 257–263, were intro-
duced. Pages H2883–85
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H2887–88
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H.R. 1585, to reauthorize the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994, and for other purposes, with
an amendment (H. Rept. 116–21, Part 1).
Page H2883
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Costa to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H2831
Recess: The House recessed at 11:14 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H2839
Paycheck Fairness Act: The House passed H.R. 7,
to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to
provide more effective remedies to victims of dis-
crimination in the payment of wages on the basis of
sex, by a yea-and-nay vote of 242 yeas to 187 nays,
Roll No. 134. Pages H2848–75
Rejected the Foxx motion to recommit the bill to
the Committee on Education and labor with instruc-
tions to report the same back to the House forthwith
with an amendment, by a recorded vote of 191 ayes
to 236 noes, Roll No. 133. Pages H2872–74
Pursuant to the Rule, it shall be in order to con-
sider as an original bill for the purpose of amend-
ment under the five-minute rule an amendment in
the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 116–8, modified by the
amendment printed in part A of H. Rept. 116–19,
in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor now printed in the bill. Page H2860
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D27MR9.REC D27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D309
March 27, 2019
Agreed to:
Torres amendment (No. 2 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–19) that recognizes the severity of the
gender wage gap for girls and women of color;
Pages H2864–65
Torres amendment (No. 3 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–19) that highlights the gender pay gap’s
impact on women and girls of color during research
and education efforts conducted by the Secretary of
Labor; Page H2865
Jayapal amendment (No. 5 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–19) that clarifies that the studies con-
ducted by the Department of Labor concerning the
elimination of pay disparities between men and
women must include information about, and an anal-
ysis of, women of all racial and ethnic backgrounds;
Pages H2867–68
Lawrence amendment (No. 8 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–19) that requires the Department of
Labor to conduct a study on the gender pay gap in
the teenage workforce and provide recommendations
for how to address the gap; Pages H2870–71
Brown (MD) amendment (No. 9 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–19) that makes it unlawful to
discriminate against an employee for inquiring or
discussing with the employer why the wages of the
employee are set at a certain rate or salary; and
Pages H2871–72
Beyer amendment (No. 7 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–19) that exempts employers with fewer
than 100 employees from reporting compensation
data under Section 8 of this Act (by a recorded vote
of 406 ayes to 24 noes, Roll No. 132).
Pages H2868–70, H2872
Rejected:
Foxx amendment (No. 1 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–19) that sought to strike Section 8 relat-
ing to the collection by the Equal Employment Op-
portunity Commission of pay information and other
employment-related data (including hiring, termi-
nation, and promotion data) disaggregated by the
sex, race, and national origin of employees; and
Pages H2863–64
Byrne amendment (No. 4 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–19) that sought to clarify that the ‘‘any
other factor other than sex’’ defense in the Equal Pay
Act means ‘‘a bona fide business-related reason other
than sex’’; strike Section 3(a)(B) relating to the ap-
plication of the factor other than sex defense to an
Equal Pay Act claim. Pages H2865–67
H. Res. 252, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 7) and the resolution (H. Res. 124)
was agreed to by a yea-and-nay vote of 232 yeas to
190 nays, Roll No. 131, after the previous question
was ordered by a yea-and-nay vote of 231 yeas to
192 nays, Roll No. 130. Pages H2840–47
Providing for the expenses of certain committees
of the House of Representatives in the One
Hundred Sixteenth Congress: The House agreed
to take from the Speaker’s table and agree to H. Res.
245, providing for the expenses of certain commit-
tees of the House of Representatives in the One
Hundred Sixteenth Congress. Pages H2875–76
Providing for a recess of the House for a joint
meeting to receive His Excellency Jens
Stoltenberg, Secretary General of the North At-
lantic Treaty Organization: Agreed by unanimous
consent that it may be in order at any time on
Wednesday, April 3, 2019, for the Speaker to de-
clare a recess, subject to the call of the Chair, for the
purpose of receiving in joint meeting His Excellency
Jens Stoltenberg, Secretary General of the North At-
lantic Treaty Organization. Page H2876
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 9 a.m. tomorrow, March 28th. Page H2876
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes
and two recorded votes developed during the pro-
ceedings of today and appear on pages H2846–47,
H2847, H2872, H2874, and H2874–75. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:34 p.m.
Committee Meetings
APPROPRIATIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
STATE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs held a
budget hearing on the Department of State. Testi-
mony was heard from Mike Pompeo, Secretary, De-
partment of State.
APPROPRIATIONS—U.S. ARMY CORPS OF
ENGINEERS AND BUREAU OF
RECLAMATION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development, and Related Agencies held
a budget hearing on the U.S. Army Corps of Engi-
neers and Bureau of Reclamation. Testimony was
heard from Brenda Burman, Commissioner, Bureau
of Reclamation; R.D. James, Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works, U.S. Army Corps of En-
gineers; Tim Petty, Assistant Secretary for Water
and Science, Department of Interior; and Lieutenant
General Todd T. Semonite, Chief of Engineers and
Commanding General, U.S. Army Corps of Engi-
neers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D27MR9.REC D27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D310 March 27, 2019
MEMBER DAY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Finan-
cial Services and General Government held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Member Day’’. Testimony was heard from
Representatives Finkenauer and Jackson Lee.
MEMBER DAY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education, and Related Agencies held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Member Day’’. Testimony was heard from
Representatives Fitzpatrick, Haaland, Jackson Lee,
Khanna, McCollum, Smith of New Jersey, Suozzi,
Hagedorn, Visclosky, and Wild.
APPROPRIATIONS—NATIONAL OCEANIC
AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing on the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration. Testimony was heard from
Neil Jacobs, Acting Administrator, National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration.
USDA’S PROPOSED RELOCATION OF THE
ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICE AND THE
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND
AGRICULTURE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Admin-
istration, and Related Agencies held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘USDA’s Proposed Relocation of the Economic
Research Service and the National Institute of Food
and Agriculture’’. Testimony was heard from Kristi
J. Boswell, Senior Advisor to the Secretary of Agri-
culture, Department of Agriculture.
APPROPRIATIONS—NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY, U.S. CYBER COMMAND
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Defense
held a budget hearing on the National Security
Agency, U.S. Cyber Command. Testimony was heard
from General Paul M. Nakasone, Director, Com-
mander, National Security Agency, Cyber Command.
This hearing was closed.
MEMBER DAY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’. Testimony was
heard from Representatives Visclosky, Posey, Galla-
gher, Comer, and Haaland.
APPROPRIATIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Mili-
tary Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related
Agencies held a budget hearing on the Department
of Veterans Affairs. Testimony was heard from the
following Department of Veterans Affairs officials:
Paul R. Lawrence, Under Secretary for Benefits; Jon
Rychalski, Assistant Secretary for Management and
Chief Financial Officer; Richard A. Stone, M.D., Ex-
ecutive in Charge, Veterans Health Administration;
and Robert Wilkie, Secretary.
PUBLIC WITNESS HEARING
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Finan-
cial Services and General Government held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Public Witness Hearing’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
APPROPRIATIONS—NATIONAL
AERONAUTICS AND SPACE
ADMINISTRATION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing on the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration. Testimony was heard from
James Bridenstine, Administrator, National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration.
APPROPRIATIONS—NATIONAL
RECONNAISSANCE OFFICE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Defense
held a budget hearing on the National Reconnais-
sance Office. Testimony was heard from Frank
Calvelli, Principal Deputy Director, National Recon-
naissance Office. This hearing was closed.
NATIONAL SECURITY CHALLENGES AND
U.S. MILITARY ACTIVITIES IN THE INDO-
PACIFIC
Committee on Armed Services: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘National Security Challenges and
U.S. Military Activities in the Indo-Pacific’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Admiral Philip S. Davidson,
U.S. Navy, Commander, U.S. Indo-Pacific Com-
mand; General Robert B. Abrams, U.S. Army, Com-
mander, United Nations Command, Combined
Forces Command, and U.S. Forces Korea; and Ran-
dall G. Schriver, Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Indo-Pacific Security Affairs, Department of Defense.
RESERVE COMPONENT DUTY STATUS
REFORM
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Mili-
tary Personnel held a hearing entitled ‘‘Reserve
Component Duty Status Reform’’. Testimony was
heard from Jeri Bucsh, Director, Military Compensa-
tion Policy, Office of the Undersecretary of Defense
for Personnel and Readiness, Department of Defense;
Major General Michael R. Taheri, U.S. Air Force,
Director, Joint Staff, National Guard Bureau; Major
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D27MR9.REC D27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D311
March 27, 2019
General A.C. Roper, U.S. Army, Deputy Chief,
Army Reserve; Patrick J. Barrett, U.S. Navy, Deputy
Chief, Navy Reserve; Lieutenant General Richard W.
Scobee, U.S. Air Force; Chief, Air Force Reserve; and
Major General Bradley S. James, U.S. Marine Corps,
Commander, Marine Forces Reserve.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE’S FISCAL YEAR
2020 BUDGET REQUEST
Committee on the Budget: Full Committee held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Department of Defense’s Fiscal Year
2020 Budget Request’’. Testimony was heard from
David L. Norquist, Performing the Duties of Deputy
Secretary, Department of Defense.
INNOVATIONS IN EXPANDING
REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS
Committee on Education and Labor: Subcommittee on
Higher Education and Workforce Investment held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Innovations in Expanding Reg-
istered Apprenticeship Programs’’. Testimony was
heard from public witness.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Health held a markup on H.R. 1781, the ‘‘Payment
Commission Data Act of 2019’’; H.R. 938, the
‘‘BLOCKING Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1520, the ‘‘Purple
Book Continuity Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1503, the ‘‘Or-
ange Book Transparency Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1499,
the ‘‘Protecting Consumer Access to Generic Drugs
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 965, the ‘‘CREATES Act of
2019’’; H.R. 1385, the ‘‘SAVE Act’’; H.R. 1386,
the ‘‘ENROLL Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1425, the ‘‘State
Health Care Premium Reduction Act’’; H.R. 987,
the ‘‘MORE Health Education Act’’; H.R. 986, the
‘‘Protecting Americans with Preexisting Conditions
Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 1010, a bill to provide that
the rule entitled ‘‘Short-Term, Limited Duration In-
surance’’ shall have no force or effect. H.R. 1781,
H.R. 938, H.R. 1385, H.R. 1386, H.R. 987, H.R.
986, and H.R. 1010 were forwarded to the full
Committee, without amendment. H.R. 1520, H.R.
1503, H.R. 965, H.R. 1499, and H.R. 1425 were
forwarded to the full committee, as amended.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee con-
tinued a markup on H.R. 389, the ‘‘Kleptocracy
Asset Recovery Rewards Act’’; H.R. 1500, the ‘‘Con-
sumers First Act’’; H.R. 1595, the ‘‘Secure and Fair
Enforcement Banking Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1815, the
‘‘SEC Disclosure Effectiveness Testing Act’’; and
H.R. 1856, the ‘‘Ending Homelessness Act of
2019’’.
MAKING SANCTIONS EFFECTIVE: THE
CASE OF NORTH KOREA
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on Asia,
the Pacific, and Nonproliferation held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Making Sanctions Effective: The Case of North
Korea’’. Testimony was heard from a public witness.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT’S FOREIGN
POLICY STRATEGY AND FY20 BUDGET
REQUEST
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘The State Department’s Foreign
Policy Strategy and FY20 Budget Request’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Michael R. Pompeo, Secretary,
Department of State.
LOST EINSTEINS: LACK OF DIVERSITY IN
PATENT INVENTORSHIP AND THE IMPACT
ON AMERICA’S INNOVATION ECONOMY
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Courts,
Intellectual Property, and the Internet held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Lost Einsteins: Lack of Diversity in Patent
Inventorship and the Impact on America’s Innova-
tion Economy’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
EXAMINING THE CONSTITUTIONAL ROLE
OF THE PARDON POWER
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Constitu-
tion, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Examining the Constitutional Role of the
Pardon Power’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
EXAMINING THE DEPARTMENT OF THE
INTERIOR’S SPENDING PRIORITIES AND
THE PRESIDENT’S FISCAL YEAR 2020
BUDGET PROPOSAL
Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Department of
the Interior’s Spending Priorities and the President’s
Fiscal Year 2020 Budget Proposal’’. Testimony was
heard from Scott Cameron, Principal Deputy Assist-
ant Secretary for Policy, Management, and Budget,
Department of the Interior; and Denise Flanagan,
Director, Office of Budget, Department of the Inte-
rior.
EPA’S IRIS PROGRAM: REVIEWING ITS
PROGRESS AND ROADBLOCKS AHEAD
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Investigations and Oversight; and
Subcommittee on Environment held a joint hearing
entitled ‘‘EPA’s IRIS Program: Reviewing its
Progress and Roadblocks Ahead’’. Testimony was
heard from Jennifer Orme-Zavaleta, Principal Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Science and Science
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D27MR9.REC D27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D312 March 27, 2019
Advisor, Office of Research and Development, Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency; Alfredo Gomez, Di-
rector, Natural Resources and Environment, Govern-
ment Accountability Office; and public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Energy held a markup on H.R. 34,
the ‘‘Energy and Water Research Integration Act of
2019’’. H.R. 34 was forwarded to the full Com-
mittee, as amended.
UNLOCKING SMALL BUSINESS
RETIREMENT SECURITY
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Unlocking Small Business Retire-
ment Security’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Full
Committee held a markup on H.R. 1108, the ‘‘Avia-
tion Funding Stability Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1775, to
establish a task force on NOTAM improvements,
and for other purposes; H.R. 367, the ‘‘Pay Our
Coast Guard Parity Act of 2019’’; H.R.1322, to re-
quire a report on the effects of Climate Change on
the Coast Guard; H.R. 1306, the ‘‘Federal Disaster
Assistance Coordination Act’’; H.R. 1307, the ‘‘Post-
Disaster Assistance Online Accountability Act’’;
H.R. 1311, to amend the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to ensure
that unmet needs after a major disaster are met; and
H.R. 1331, the ‘‘Local Water Protection Act’’. H.R.
1331, H.R. 1311, H.R. 1307, H.R. 1306, H.R.
1322, and H.R. 1775 were ordered reported, with-
out amendment. H.R. 367 and H.R. 1108 were or-
dered reported, as amended.
THE 2017 TAX LAW AND WHO IT LEFT
BEHIND
Committee on Ways and Means: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘The 2017 Tax Law and Who It
Left Behind’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
CONGRESSIONAL REFORMS OF THE PAST
AND THEIR EFFECT ON TODAY’S
CONGRESS
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress: Full
Committee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Congressional
Reforms of the Past and Their Effect on Today’s
Congress’’. Testimony was heard from Walter
Oleszek, Senior Specialist, Congressional Research
Service, Library of Congress; and public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
MARCH 28, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, to hold hearings to examine
proposed budget estimates and justification for fiscal year
2020 for the Coast Guard, 10 a.m., SD–192.
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies, to
hold hearings to examine proposed budget estimates and
justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Education, 10 a.m., SD–124.
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, to
hold hearings to examine proposed budget estimates and
justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Food and Drug
Administration, 10:30 a.m., SD–138.
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
Department of Energy’s atomic energy defense programs
in review of the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal
year 2020 and the Future Years Defense Program, 9:30
a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on the Budget: business meeting to markup
the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year
2020, 10:30 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine the nomination of David Bernhardt, of
Virginia, to be Secretary of the Interior, 10 a.m.,
SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine the Federal response to the risks associ-
ated with per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), 10
a.m., SD–406.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
the nominations of Daniel P. Collins, and Kenneth Kiyul
Lee, both of California, both to be a United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit, James Wesley Hendrix, and
Mark T. Pittman, both to be a United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Texas, Sean D. Jordan,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Texas, Wing Chau, to be United States Marshal
for the District of Rhode Island, and Ramona L.
Dohman, to be United States Marshal for the District of
Minnesota, 10 a.m., SD–226.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Interior,
Environment, and Related Agencies, budget hearing on
the U.S. Forest Service, 10 a.m., 2008 Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Intel-
ligence and Emerging Threats and Capabilities, hearing
entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 Budget Request for Depart-
ment of Defense Science and Technology Programs:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D27MR9.REC D27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D313
March 27, 2019
Maintaining a Robust Ecosystem for our Technological
Edge’’, 10 a.m., 2212 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, hearing entitled
‘‘FY20 Priorities for Department of Defense Nuclear Ac-
tivities’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, con-
tinue markup on H.R. 389, the ‘‘Kleptocracy Asset Re-
covery Rewards Act’’; H.R. 1500, the ‘‘Consumers First
Act’’; H.R. 1595, the ‘‘Secure and Fair Enforcement
Banking Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1815, the ‘‘SEC Disclosure
Effectiveness Testing Act’’; and H.R. 1856, the ‘‘Ending
Homelessness Act of 2019’’, 8:45 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Water,
Oceans, and Wildlife, hearing entitled ‘‘The Colorado
River Drought Contingency Plan’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Long-
worth.
Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation: Inno-
vative Approaches and Economic Development Opportu-
nities’’, 10 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Putin’s Playbook: The Krem-
lin’s Use of Oligarchs, Money and Intelligence in 2016
and Beyond’’, 9 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, Full Committee,
organizational meeting, 9 a.m., 2247 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D27MR9.REC D27MRPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D314 March 27, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Thursday, March 28
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the motion to proceed to consideration of H.R.
268, Supplemental Appropriations Act, post-cloture.
At 1:30 p.m., Senate will begin consideration of the
nomination of Nicole R. Nason, of New York, to be Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Highway Administration, and
vote on confirmation of the nomination at 1:45 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Thursday, March 28
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Consideration of H. Res. 124—
Expressing opposition to banning service in the Armed
Forces by openly transgender individuals.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Barr, Andy, Ky., E358
Chabot, Steve, Ohio, E362
Cloud, Michael, Tex., E362
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E357
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E358
Duffy, Sean P., Wisc., E359
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E359
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E361
Kelly, Trent, Miss., E361
Luetkemeyer, Blaine, Mo., E357
Marchant, Kenny, Tex., E358
Pappas, Chris, N.H., E360
Pence, Greg, Ind., E357
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E357, E358, E358, E359, E359,
E360, E360, E362, E362, E363
Porter, Katie, Calif., E360
Shalala, Donna E., Fla., E359
Shimkus, John, Ill., E360
Spano, Ross, Fla., E358
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E359
Taylor, Van, Tex., E357
Tonko, Paul, N.Y., E361, E362
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:34 Mar 28, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D27MR9.REC D27MRPT1
